ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u1	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u2	Mr President! Even at the first reading of this government bill, there was a very good and detailed discussion in this Chamber about the content of the law, the future of upper secondary school education and also the importance of general education, particularly in view of changes in the labour market which still underscore the importance of general education and also the adoption of good basic knowledge and skills for all students. There is a lot of good in this bill, but there have also been concerns about the way in which it is dealt with, which are not directly addressed by the bill and which relate, among other things, to the stress and strain experienced by high school students but also to the overall development of secondary education and the future of secondary education, both vocational and upper secondary education, in how well this development cooperation is currently being carried out, so that the second level as a whole is taken into account as a whole. In fact, in the course of the committee's hearings, concerns about the strain and stress experienced by Finnish high school students, which have also been on the rise, were raised surprisingly strongly in many expert statements. I believe that this is, as it were, a dimension of education policy that decision-makers should take seriously when it comes to upper secondary school education, its role and its development. This selection test reform, which has now been carried out and which unfortunately has not been able to be discussed in this Chamber because it has not been implemented through legislation and which confirms the importance of the matriculation examination, is, in the view of the Left Alliance, likely to exacerbate stress and the problem of burden. It is also seen that it is another step away from this general importance, which forces students to specialise at an earlier stage of their studies. In other words, one of the answers to stress and stress-related problems would be to return to this general starting point when talking about upper secondary school education and its development. The second answer, which has been raised, relates to student guidance and its strengthening, and in that respect these obligations are now confirmed by this draft law on upper secondary school. In the past, student guidance has been increased in the course offering of upper secondary schools, but student organisations in particular stressed that, in addition to such group-based joint guidance, sufficient resources must also be provided for personal guidance in upper secondary schools. I would like to make the following statement, the idea of which is precisely to strengthen individual guidance and its quality. The text of the opinion is as follows: ‘The Commission requires that the quality and availability Another concern that has arisen in connection with this law, as I mentioned, relates to the second-degree entity. This reform of vocational education and training was done first and only after this reform of the secondary school law. In the context of this law, there has been a great deal of emphasis on cooperation between upper secondary schools and universities, and there are also new obligations to strengthen cooperation. This in itself is to be welcomed, but too little attention has been paid to cooperation between vocational training and upper secondary schools and the role and function of these different pathways of education, as it were, in relation to each other. A certain amount of concern has now also been raised that these study paths will become more differentiated in the future. A credit system is now being introduced into upper secondary school education, but it is not the same as the credit system used in higher education institutions, nor is it compatible with the competence point system used on the professional side. There was also a previous mention in the text of the law describing the purpose of upper secondary school, which has given rise to amazement, particularly in opposition parties, that upper secondary school education provides the capacity to continue in vocational education. The second way in which different educational paths would appear to differ at the second level is related to the post-graduate guidance obligation, which is now being introduced to upper secondary school students by this secondary school law. In other words, students who have already completed training are guaranteed the possibility of secondary guidance, but there is no similar obligation on the vocational education and training side, even if it is assumed that the need for this type of support and guidance and joint-stage services is at least equal on the vocational education and training side. I will therefore make a second proposal, which reads as follows: “The Commission requires that there should be a regulation on vocational training, taking into account the diversity of education and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u3	Mr President! The new law on upper secondary school is very good and responds to the current and future needs of upper secondary school education. The law strengthens the role of upper secondary school education as preparatory education for higher education. The new law is international and future oriented. In the new upper secondary school, the individual potential of each upper secondary school student is better highlighted. The new upper secondary school gives the student room to flourish and to pursue the best possible future and take advantage of its own individual strengths. The biggest change in upper secondary school is the transition from a course-based qualification to credits. This will enable new study modules and multidisciplinary orientation across the subject lines. Upper secondary schools and students will have more room for manoeuvre, making the study paths more individual. The new law also significantly improves the status of students. Personal guidance will be increased. In addition, the upper secondary school guidance obligation will no longer end in the matriculation examination, but secondary guidance will also be given to future field choices, for example, after graduating from upper secondary school. Personal guidance maintains motivation to learn and develop. This is how high school gives young people a view of their own strengths, dreams and goals for the future. Upper secondary school must also be obliged to provide special education whenever necessary. In the past, this obligation has not existed, so the improvement is significant from the student’s point of view. Cooperation between upper secondary schools and higher education institutions will be intensified. Each person can have a peek at higher education studies already during upper secondary school. Practical experience in higher education gives a high school student much more insight into future choices than mere guidance could provide. The new high school is increasingly international and also closer to working life. Everyone will have the opportunity to include in their studies a period of internationalisation and a different kind of familiarisation with working life. Mr President! I also very much welcome the fact that the new secondary school law is supported by the good decisions taken by the government in the spending limits debate. Indeed, the government decided to increase the funding of upper secondary schools by EUR 4 million for 2021 and EUR 8.5 million for 2022. A study material supplement was also decided at the spending limits session in August 2019, which will make it impossible for anyone to stop their high school studies due to a lack of money. I also think it is important that the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media raises the issue of skills and arts and their important role in the general role of upper secondary school. According to the committee, these substances must be seen as equal to those included in the matriculation examination. The high school diploma developed by the Finnish National Board of Education provides high school students with the opportunity to provide special evidence of their competence and hobby in arts and arts. However, the possibility of completing the diploma has been voluntary for upper secondary schools, which has been problematic in terms of equal opportunities for students. Ensuring equal opportunities for all students regardless of upper secondary school strengthens the achievement of the general function of upper secondary school education throughout the country and smooths differences in skills and art studies depending on the background. All in all, this is a very good piece of legislation and the Committee on Education has done a very good job in its report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! I am pleased that important reforms have also been made during this term of government in the area of education: the early childhood education law has today been adopted in the Committee on Education, major reforms and investments in basic education, reforms in the higher education sector and now there is a secondary school law, which in fact has long been waiting for reform. I am pleased that this reform is progressing as well. This reform primarily aims to strengthen upper secondary school in the future, strengthen the attractiveness of upper secondary school as education, preparatory education for higher education, and, on the other hand, to strengthen the quality of education and also the learning outcomes of the upper secondary school. It is also positive that in the spending limits debate for the coming years, it has been decided to allocate additional contributions to the financing of upper secondary school, so that in the next parliamentary term, additional appropriations would amount to EUR 4 million in 21 and EUR 8.5 million in 22. They are significant investments and, in fact, for quite a long time high school education has been waiting for this reform. I myself am a former teacher — or perhaps a teacher throughout my life — and I remember how long it was that we were already undergoing reforms and then the high school was the one where we returned to a very teacher-led education system and then also to a system where, for example, new digital technologies were not used in the way these high school students have been using since childhood. And now these updates and corrections have been made so that, for example, high school writings can eventually be made electronic. I'm sure there's still work to be done there. In upper secondary schools, as a major reform from a course-based system to a credit system, this is precisely what enables the production of educational content across disciplines and disciplines and, in fact, gives more decision-making power to upper secondary schools but, above all, to students themselves in relation to the skills produced and acquired in upper secondary school. More individual study paths strengthen individual learning and personal dreams and goals of each individual. Thus, the new law confirms above all that every high school student is taken into account as an individual: personal guidance is increased and special education is also introduced into upper secondary schools as a new one. I myself have been a matriculation student for a reasonably long time, and there has been a lot of time since my own high school years, but I remember how, in fact, in the '90s different dyslexias and others were addressed at the very last minute, certificates were obtained for those students who needed it for high school writing. Fortunately, this kind of help has already been received in high school for a long time, and now special education supports different learners on the high school road. It is also positive that secondary schools will be subject to a prior guidance obligation, i.e. we will continue to offer guidance to upper secondary school students or students even after graduation. And there will also be such small future drifts in higher education studies and in working life — they are more than welcome — and an internationalisation period will be included in the matriculation examination, which we actually presented with the Rector and MP Vahasalo in the report on the renewal of the upper secondary school of the Coalition Party during the last parliamentary term. We are very pleased with Mr Vahasalo that these are now moving forward. Certain reforms to the matriculation examination are also coming, including a restriction on the removal of new writings, and this will also facilitate access to further studies. Perhaps the most important thing is that the law on upper secondary school improves the position of a high school student, that is, every student. In other words, there is more personal guidance for study and future education choices, and there is widespread support for learning and, if necessary, for special education, as I have just said. The new upper secondary school is also more international and closer to working life, which means that we are taking a clear step in the direction that society has in fact already taken in many other areas. This is a very fine, welcome reform, and I am pleased that this government, under the leadership of Minister Grahn-Laasonen, has been able to carry out all these reforms, which now extend from early childhood education through primary school to upper secondary schools and higher education and, in fact, to further education and further education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u5	Mr President! At the first reading of the High School Act, which is now under discussion, we have already stated that the four points that we have wanted to emphasise, particularly during the course of the proceedings, were the general nature of the upper secondary school, the importance of the community of the upper secondary school in implementing the everyday life of this bill, which may be too important for individuality, and the comprehensive development of secondary education in the future, precisely with the objective of a secondary degree for all, and fourthly, the need for peace and predictability for teachers and students. Mr President! After all, this law includes many of the very good improvements that have been made in the previous speeches, as well as the types of statements that already exist in many upper secondary schools, in connection with, for example, university cooperation and the identification of various so-called interfaces, and they are now also being brought to the legal level. On two of the four points that we raised, namely the issue of general education and sociality, we were able to reach unanimous agreement in the committee at the beginning of the report on the purpose of upper secondary school education, which, in our opinion, may be sufficient in this respect. I talked more about these at the first reading of the law and I am not going to repeat all of this here, but I would like to stress that high school is both general and communal, and this communality, after this class left high school, is a constant concern that we hear from both young people and their parents quite often. For example, various studies on young people highlight perhaps the most important importance of the Community, both in terms of school comfort and motivation and other well-being. In other words, it is important to follow it in the implementation of this law, because the spirit of the law is very personal. The third particular concern is the issue of peace and predictability in the workplace, and here I would like to make a few critical remarks. We currently have this kind of speech in which we talk a lot about the reform and development of education, and they mean a very wide range of things. The reform of education and training is often a very inspiring objective for us political decision-makers in general, and, of course, the system requires updating, monitoring of time and reassessment of requirements. It is true, however, that many researchers have made critical comments on how reforms or development are justified even in the context of this examination of the secondary school law. So I think it is important that, in the future, when Parliament deals with different legislation on education, we should be careful whether the proposals for reform are generally research-based and whether the proposed means which are presented to us as reforms are tested by research. As I said earlier, with regard to the law on upper secondary schools, many reforms are raising the legal level of things that are already being done in upper secondary schools, so they are very good changes in these areas. And we are also confident that peace and predictability will be realized, because there will be no interference in the division of hours and the curriculum work will therefore be done on the current division of hours. Mr President! The fourth focus of the SDP is on the comprehensive development of secondary education and perhaps in this big picture it is also the most important one, and in that respect the committee's deliberations were disappointing and perhaps also a surprise in some way. In fact, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs decided to vote on the next entry, and here I would perhaps urge those in the Chamber who are not members of the committee to listen carefully. In other words, we voted on such a record: ‘The committee is convinced that the broad social objective is to better ensure that the young person’s non-supplementary degree is recognised. The upper secondary school law is part of a group of others with vocational education. The Committee stresses the importance of the overall view of secondary education since the entry into force of the reform of vocational education and training reform and the reform of the upper secondary school law.’ We therefore did not agree in committee that this could be included in the grounds of the secondary school law. Therefore, we will now make a separate statement in response to protest 2. It is there Declaration 5, which reads as follows: ‘The Commission requires that,after the reform of the reform of thereform and secondary vocational training which has been carried out,the Government should take a more comprehensive approach tothe overall development ofthe level of government in order to fully identify the social objective that young people should pursue Mr President! In addition, I will make two statements and support the two statements that Mr Andersson has already made. This first proposal, which I will make, relates to the opening up of ET education as open spectator for all. This law does not interfere with the content of subjects or the division of subjects, but it would also be possible to open up the philosophy of life under these conditions. I think it is important that life-view information should develop as a subject that is freely available to all. My position here is very close to the position of the teachers of philosophy and philosophy from last year's March. I went through this in more detail at the first reading of the law and I will not go back to this. Mr President! As a second statement, I would then like to make a statement on the registration of high school diplomas in the law and regulation, binding on the organiser of education. The significance of these diplomas is emphasised by the growing role of the matriculation examination in university choices, and we should therefore strengthen this portfolio-type thinking in arts and crafts subjects, for example. In other words, I am making statements 1, 2 and 5 on objections No 2 on the basis of the above arguments and I really support these statements made by Mr Andersson in relation to the resources available for study guidance and the preparation of the vocational education and training guidance obligation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u6	Mr President! I will briefly draw attention to what Mr Torsti has pointed out in relation to the development of this entire secondary level. It is easy to say that cooperation between vocational education and upper secondary school education is a modern culture, and I think it is right that upper secondary schools cooperate with higher education institutions — in many respects, I do not go there to justify it — but, as stated in the articles of the upper secondary school law, cooperation with vocational education and training is also important. A significant proportion of students with matriculation examination continue their studies at polytechnics. They could already take a look at the pros that are close to them, they are electrical technology, whatever, including professional training, and this is a modern educational statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u7	Mr President! Representative Gustafsson raised an important issue, vocational education and co-operation in upper secondary school, and the Finns also agree that this cooperation must be intensified. The Finns of Peru are making a statement that has been distributed to your table, to everyone here. This upper secondary school law in general is a good government proposal, but we also pay particular attention to some points. True Finns feel that safety in a learning environment, and especially this bullying, must be tackled much more sharply and vigorously. To this end, I would like to make a statement which reads as follows: ‘The government requires that measures be taken to ensure that the principals and teachers are obliged to intervene in bullying, harassment and violence in the school and to prevent the This is particularly important because bullying also occurs in upper secondary schools, vocational schools, even day-care centres. This is not just a problem for primary schools, and a strong expert opinion from the Upper Secondary Education Union highlighted this problem during the hearings. Therefore, the Finns of Peru also want to bring it up as a statement, and we hope, of course, that it will pass. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u8	Mr President! As Mrs Elomaa has just said well, the prevention of bullying is a very important issue. The new upper secondary school law under discussion is broadly a worthy entity, although it does not involve any major upheavals, but it is probably a good thing to look at, for example, this ongoing war-reform. At the first reading of this draft law on secondary school, there was already a very thorough debate and reflection on the content of the new law and its implications, and I am now no longer repeating the previous points of view, some of which were critical of me at the time of the first reading. But I would like to say again that, in the opinion of the Finns-based, much more concretely than what has been done now, the duty of the faculty to intervene in the bullying that they have discovered, and this point has indeed been strongly raised in the expert hearings. Mr President! I therefore support Mr Elomaa's proposal on prevention and intervention of bullying, the importance of which Mrs Elomaa has already made quite clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u9	Mr President! The reform of upper secondary school law is extremely good and is a reform according to Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government Programme. It'll bring this high school law up to date, that's a good thing. The law aims at more extensive study, crossing the boundaries of subjects. This kind of multidisciplinary study is a very good thing, because it teaches our young people to use the information at maximum. It must be remembered that these current high school students, who start their high school next autumn, for example, are multi-skillers in terms of computer skills, computer skills, compared to the age they represent, for example. So they have excellent computer skills from an early age. This development of teaching and learning is a very good thing. One thing has perhaps been overlooked: the possibility of organising a municipality with regard to upper secondary school education. Of course, the finances of many municipalities are tight today, but we are still going for the better, and it is worth paying attention to the fact that there are obviously differences between upper secondary schools, but the government must ensure that the resources are updated so that we can guarantee high-quality upper secondary school education across Finland. There is one more point that needs to be taken into account separately, and that is this cooperation between secondary school teachers and upper secondary school teachers. Many places have the problem of not getting the best teacher material to teach in high school, because there is no way that the full number of hours is covered by its normal ministry. Thus, after working with secondary school, these teachers are given full hours, making it much more attractive to apply for a teaching position. This will ensure that rural municipalities can also provide high-quality upper secondary school education and also secondary school education, because it is extremely important for children and young people to have a qualified teacher. Finally, Mr President, the cooperation with industry mentioned in the law and mentioned in the report by the Committee on Culture and Education is extremely important, because the contacts already established during the course of study open the way to the actual job once the studies have been completed. It is a little sad, of course, when we in every place stress — or not sad — but it is a reality — university studies, that everyone should get a higher education degree. We have a huge shortage of skilled hands in this country today in any profession. Sometimes I would like to think a little more deeply about whether the aim is to train unemployed masters or whether people who have a direct job, for example, are being trained as a driver, a trucker, a bus driver or something else. We have a huge number of job vacancies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u10	Mr President! As has already been said in the previous debate, the draft law as a whole is a good one. Today, too, in this debate, a number of speakers have raised the issue of stress and stress, particularly in relation to upper secondary school education. It is very important that this issue is addressed, addressed and addressed. It's a serious problem, and at least something I've noticed myself when I go around a lot in schools, that actually that conversation is already starting there on the middle school side. Which means it's also a pretty big phenomenon for those eighth graders, especially the ninth graders. There the stress and burdeniness has increased a lot, and especially among those young people who are considering high school studies as one of the alternatives: images of what high school is about or what it is that you need to be able to do, and even the anticipation up to there in the matriculation examination. In my opinion, this has been a clear change during the last year, or in the last two years, and there is also such an element, which is often highlighted by school psychologists and guidance counselors. This example, too, is, as it were, supporting the debate that has taken place today on stress and burden. Hopefully, the study point system will bring relief to it. At least it gives us more opportunities, as it were, to measure the amount of work that goes into different entities and thus facilitates monitoring. But as has also been said here, the challenge here is, of course, that this system is still not in line with other training paths. Another fine or important element here I think is this study guidance and there the emphasis on individuality and also this secondary guidance element, but, as has been said here, it would be very important to look at the second degree as a whole and at what this same element could mean as soon as possible on the vocational training side. I understand that we are talking about a different type of education with different objectives, but there is still a similar need for support there, and there are those young people who, after the end of their training, are necessarily affected by the next stage, as if it were not clearly or immediately opened up, i.e. what is the ex-post guidance support, so that they can be provided equally to these young people as well. I also hope, of course, that now that more drinks are introduced into student guidance, the content will also be developed. The different backgrounds of young people are also identified at the upper secondary school stage and how this affects, for example, access to different professions. As I mentioned in the last debate, we still have a great deal of regret — it is confusing, but it is real — that, for example, because of the cultural background of man, he is still being strongly directed, as it were, to certain areas. Every time a claim like this comes up, it seems incomprehensible, but I guess it has to be believed that this is still happening. These are, in my view, examples that must be taken very seriously. It is, among other things, a question of continuing education: how would guidance counselors really have the tools to identify also when young people think about those paths forward, that what are the potential challenges for different groups — what are the obstacles to their own cultural background or skin colour or gender or sexual orientation, as examples,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u11	Mr President! I would like to begin by supporting the proposals made by Mr Pilvi Torst, which are therefore part of this joint protest, and in particular by raising two points and points which have been addressed in these statements, the first of which is to make the provision of opportunities for high school diploma compulsory for all upper secondary schools. It would be such a reform, which would also contribute to strengthening the general role of upper secondary school education and thus provide equal opportunities for all students in Finland to provide evidence of their competence in arts and arts. We would have liked this obligation to have been brought to the level of the law now in connection with this law. Another important reform of this kind, which these statements deal with, which would have contributed to strengthening general education but at the same time also increased the freedom of choice for students in upper secondary school education, is the possibility of selecting life views for students who belong to a religious community. On the other hand, this would also be a step towards the goal of the Left Alliance, which is to move on to teaching one religion and philosophy for all. Then perhaps I should like to comment to the point made by Mrs Hoskonen that, now that we are listening to the speeches made by the representatives of the government parties, it sounds as if there has been quite a radical reform here, but this is not the case at all. This reform did not concern, for example, the distribution of hours or subject content, i.e. this phenomenon-based study and studies beyond different material boundaries have already been introduced into upper secondary school education in the past. Similarly, Mr Hoskonen raised the question of whether everyone should have a master's degree. Well, not at all, but the goal should be that all young people in Finland should at least complete their secondary education, and extending compulsory education would be a very good tool. But in addition to that, I understand that all parties have jointly committed themselves to the goal of actually increasing the number of young adults with higher education qualifications from the level that it is currently in Finland, because we are in international comparisons, OECD comparisons, actually falling behind. In other words, these old truths that we have an exceptionally highly educated people will soon no longer be true unless we ensure that Finnish young people also have the opportunity to complete that university degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u12	Mr President! Finland is known around the world for a good education system. In these Pisa studies, Finland manages exemplaryly, and it has created the impression in the world that we are clearly, at least for the time being, in the top group. Sometimes we've been the first. If there was one student in high school who was from some foreign culture, I have good experiences from my own high school age. When you have one student from somewhere else, you cannot use your own mother tongue, but you learn Finnish or you learn your mother tongue. This is opening up the world. Above all, I have long wondered that these places of education are not sold by upper secondary schools, especially in rural areas where it is not always self-evident to have enough students in upper secondary school. There is a lot of such educational sales in the world, but Finland, with an excellent product-sort, has not gone further than that. Upper secondary school education is expected to cost between 5000 and 10,000 per pupil per year, and especially those who apply for the best education for their children in the world could also choose Finland for one educational place for a year, two or longer. These students would later also have an impact on the promotion of Finland and the opening of gates in many commercial contexts. I would like those who are more concerned with these matters to consider this option. Of course we have student exchange, but it's only part of it, and it's free of charge on both sides, that's fine, but now it's also possible to sell Finnish educational know-how.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u13	Mr President! I already went through the committee's report quite carefully at first reading of the law. I presented it, and then there was a lot of debatt in the details, so it was no longer very precise, but a few, as it were, marginal comments on the most essential points. On rare occasions in committee there has been a law that has received so much praise for the way in which it is prepared. So this has been an exceptionally participatory method of preparation. The field has been widely consulted, and a great many actors have experience of having been able to influence this law. I think it is good and desirable in the future. Then, from the point of view of the This support, student support, student support, is probably the most important thing about this law. I will be very closely monitoring and the committee will be very careful to see that it is also being implemented. As important as that, I see that this support is also equal for vocational school students. Personally, I hope that in the future, when reforms are being made, they will not be carried out separately in a touching way in upper secondary school and vocational school, but that they will be able to look at the whole second stage in a uniform way. I believe that would be a more fruitful starting point. Then, as far as this cooperation in higher education is concerned, I hope that there will now be innovations in those areas where there is no university or university of applied sciences, and in the new ways in which this cooperation with the university can be built. There are already a variety of models going on, such as peeking windows in the existing high school trials, where, among other things, official Swedes can already be made in high school, which is already being prepared. We hope that there will be much more models of this type in the future. And, President-in-Office, as if it were a vision past this report and the law: I myself wish in the future for a high school in which, as it were, continuous knowledge is at the centre and continuous evidence of competence, so that in the future the university would not only be pursued with those grades obtained in the matriculation examination, but that even in the first year you could show skills across the academic boundaries by conducting small-scale studies, perhaps in the following year with ever-increasing demands, perhaps a little more like a high school diploma, perhaps even a little further. And then this own folder, as it were, a portfolio of its own, this self-skills folder, would have a bearing on the achievement of the university. In this way it would not only be the one pressurized moment at the end of the third year, but from the first year onwards it could show its own maturity, the development of thinking, the work of research, which then corresponds even better to the world of higher education. This is the kind of thinking world I'd like from high school in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u14	Mr President! It is good to continue with Mrs Puumala’s speech, the chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, which included elements of the future which perhaps were not so much the case in Mrs Hoskose’s speech. First of all, I would like to question the idea that we should reduce the educational level of Finns, when quite widely our common view has been that the level of education needs to be further increased, and we can only manage in the world by having a highly educated people. That doesn't mean everyone has to study for a master's degree. We also have higher education degrees at a professional level, which can focus on a slightly narrower sector. But what is essential is that we should not do this because we are trying to make pipes that will be completed as quickly as possible with a narrow qualification. Working life is constantly changing, whole jobs, sectors, may go out of the way, and whether it is high school studies, secondary vocational studies or other studies, so it should always be sought to make studies more general in such a way that they provide opportunities in situations where the previous profession goes under — the tools and abilities to study a new profession, new skills. Mr President! I also agree that when the second level is dealt with, as much as possible should be the second level of vocational education and upper secondary school education should be pursued at the same time. Of course, the essential question is that everyone, every young person in Finland, should complete a secondary degree. No one would be left to a basic degree. Too many people are left at the moment, and this leads to this group being in the greatest danger of being excluded from society. One of the best ways to do this would be to extend the compulsory education age so that, after the current comprehensive school, there would continue to be a division of interest and skills into different types of education, but it would be both an obligation to provide each young person with this and also an obligation for the young to participate. I am pleased to note, if I have understood correctly, that the party age in the centre also took a step in this direction by supporting a one-year upward increase in compulsory education, if I understood that decision correctly. The second big question is, of course, the freeness of secondary education, which will be resolved by this increase in compulsory school age, but even before that, if you are not prepared to take this step, you should do something because too many people have to drop out of studies, especially in the professional sector, but also in the upper secondary school sector, because of the excessive fees for learning materials and books.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u15	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen is not opposed to a higher level of study, of course not, but I am happy to criticise the fact that we should train unemployed masters while at the same time — I know from my own acquaintances that it is impossible to get a skilled CNC launderer in a friend’s firm — nothing can get bulls in this country, nothing. Does it make sense to keep people in the unemployment register as masters, while at the same time we don't get the welders, we don't get the turners? There would be a huge shortage of truck drivers, skilled truck drivers, as well as ground transport workers, who are able to carry out demanding work in this field and who can read the blueprints. Similarly, on construction sites today there is a lack of management, and a skilled builder is nowhere to be found. What will it do if there is a master’s degree in the unemployment card that knows little about construction? [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u18	Congressman Hoskonen, we're about to be full for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u19	Mr President! The speed, content and personality of Mr Hoskonen’s speech are sometimes interesting to listen to. Of course, we all agree that the academic unemployed should not be consciously trained now, but I would now like to say that this factual statistical data shows that the employment rate of higher education graduates is 90 per cent and 40 per cent for those young people who rely only on primary school. Yes, education always pays off as a rule. I cannot help but say that, when I was the Minister of Education myself, I had to stop some of these places in the art sector, particularly in the communications sector, because of the fact that they were made unemployed in a hundred, if not a thousand. It was also the background to the fact that in their fields of work there is such a three-to-four generation, which hardly retires, and does not, in a way, open up jobs. For example, I myself intend to guide young people to kindergarten teacher and care training, which many young people in the art sector are very well suited to. Mr Hoskonen was not interested in hearing what Mr Gustafsson had to say. I would have said that when he missed these CNC machines, that of course I miss them too. I was a guest of the technology industry last week in South Beach 10, and the latest information on the labour market in the technology industry was heard. Interestingly, when I had good data from four to five years ago, when the technology industry recruited a new workforce so that 50 per cent were graduates of higher education and the other half had a basic metal qualification, that now it has changed 60/40, i.e. the technology industry recruits the majority of the workforce from technical universities and universities of applied sciences. This is just how it goes, that the whole level of competence is going up. This long line of demars has been the need to raise the educational level of the whole population. Mr President! At first reading, I spoke a little more thoroughly about this high school law, and then I said that it is the best way out of these government proposals — unlike the early childhood education law that is coming here in a few days’ time, which is very poorly prepared. Of course, the most important thing in the upper secondary school law is that it must strengthen and emphasise the importance of the general education function of the upper secondary school. So none of us really knows exactly what the needs of the 20th and 30th centuries are in terms of human areas of competence, but one thing is certain: good general education — both in social and humanities and in natural sciences, the deeper the deeper the basis, the wider the basis, the better the young person will be. And then there is the point that extensive general education is the best antidote to online populism, fake news, beyond this world of tuberettes and social media. A good culture base is the best medicine and human ability to observe and understand society and its development, and that is the important task of high school, I would say, the most important. Of course, it is also important on the professional side. I myself have the impression that high-school youth and young people in vocational education, both of them, deserve a very high-quality and good education — particularly from this point of view, as I said myself, that good professional education, good general education are what we, as civil society politicians, want to give young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u20	Mr President! It is a real shame that Mr Hoskonen went off to do those forestry machinery shops elsewhere, when we should have been here to continue this debate. His view that it is not worth training the unemployed Masters — I understand the figure, but it is very important that our education system also allows the unemployed Masters to be trained so that they can be covered by variable labour supply, and that is very possible. It has been regrettable that the reform of student money cut it from graduates, which has been a setback in addition to the failure of the education contract. However, in that sense I am somewhat sympathetic to Mr Hosko as such a learning-difficult Member of Parliament that I think it is very important that jobs should be prepared to learn a profession at work without secondary education, but it must also be a criterion that there should be general education in such a way that everyone who has not completed secondary education can continue to be able to do so. Every narrower education must always provide opportunities for new learning, because working life is changing very quickly, as Mr Arhinmäki said. In other words, working life is changing rapidly: as has been said here, certain areas can disappear suddenly, and we can get 10,000 unemployed in some areas. I do not want to use the car industry in a negative way, for example, but it may be that something happens in one small store that we have a terrible number of unemployed in some sector, and the training needed to do so requires that there is a possibility of re-learning already being given as seed. And even though we are talking about high school students, I would also like to see a debate on the need for continuous work in the workplace to promote the potential of their own professional development, which will also provide additional resources to ensure that, if possible, the labour market changes, these people will still have the knowledge of new learning.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u21	Mr President! I will continue the debate on education policy initiated by Mr Hoskonen: This ‘don’t train the unemployed’s landscapes to the extent that at the So the problem in Finland is no longer that we train too many unemployed masters, but that we have too few young adults with a university degree. Mr Hoskonen here called for turners and truck drivers and basic metal experts and construction experts, and then wondered where we could get them, and the answer is simple: we have a very good and high-quality vocational training system, which enables skilled people to work specifically for this type of work. Unfortunately, this government, in which Mr Hoskonen's party is sitting, has directed exceptionally severe cuts in the funding of vocational education and training, which also has an impact on the quality of vocational training and on the quality of teachers' qualifications to properly train future bulldozers, truck drivers, construction experts and basic metal experts. In other words, if Mr Hoskonen is concerned about these experts, it might be worth looking in the mirror and wondering what his own party did in the government negotiations three years ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u22	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson spoke about general education, and I do not think that it is being overemphasized. General education is the basis on which the professional expertise will then be built. Special knowledge, whether it is a sorvarian or a doctor or teacher or whatever — knowledge ages extremely quickly, and it is getting shorter and shorter. As I recall, an average of around 10 to 20 per cent of an academic degree is relevant after 10 years of graduation. And what is relevant here? What's important is that you have to be able to study. General education at the bottom, and then the so-called generic or transferable skills, meaning that there is media literacy, have the ability to acquire knowledge, have the ability to distinguish between essential non-essential, negotiating skills, argumentation skills, cooperation skills. Speech skills are one of those that is too low in Finland if compared internationally. We have quite a lot of emphasis on written presentations, but speaking and speaking is something that will become even more important. From the Pisa studies: Finland is still the world leader. We have top teachers, we have a great system. That does not mean that there is no need for development. But it's an excellent starting point. You have to appreciate that. Pisa studies have a small slide down, need to be addressed and followed. I believe that one of the main reasons behind this is that the importance of reading is not sufficiently internalised and understood. Too much for an ad hoc reading, books, literature will be less. It is also linked to the ability to understand others, to understand empathy and to understand cultures, which is also growing in importance in the future. You have to understand other cultures, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u23	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. On the basis of the report UaVM 7/2018 vp by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, a statement on the report will now be decided. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. After Mr Vanhanen has spoken, I will give the floor to Minister Soin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u24	Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that Parliament should have no objections to the report. At its core, this report is about the continuation of the existing operation and, in the second place, the mandate of Finland's participation will be increased from the present 40 soldiers to 60 soldiers. The security risks associated with this operation are estimated to be about the same as they have been so far. It should be noted that this operation may be the most risky of the operations involving Finnish troops. So this is the continuation of this operation itself. The Committee on Foreign Affairs draws attention to the fact that there have been various forms of involvement in the stabilisation process for 20 years now and that Afghanistan has been supported with a great deal of effort and yet it can be said that there is still no permanent solution to stabilise the country, and this is a rather extensive international assessment. In 14 C.E., a much larger ISAF operation ended, and then we were living in a phase where it was thought that international troops could withdraw from Afghanistan. However, this Resolute Support system was set up and was supposed to be temporary and to end now, but the joint assessment of 39 countries involved has been that international participation and support should be continued. It has been a joint assessment, and it is also based on this participation by Finland. The Committee on Foreign Affairs points out, in the last sentence, that in order to achieve stabilisation, ‘all the groups needed to achieve peace are included in their national peace negotiations’. We discussed very much the role and nature of the Taliban movement, but this peace agreement and the negotiation of peace require all these groups. The aim of this operation is, of course, to bring about a situation in which Afghan security forces are able to take control of the country. So far this has not been successful, but perhaps it is worth noting that it is not a trivial force. In all, Afghanistan itself has some 300,000 soldiers and police officers, which is basically a very large amount of resources available, and yet this stabilisation has not been achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u25	Secretary of State Soini. Let's get out of here for five minutes, max.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u26	Mr President! Thank you. — I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the report which contains valuable views on the Government's report on Finland's support and crisis management activities in Afghanistan. We note the request made in the report that the security situation in Afghanistan should be closely monitored and that Parliament should be regularly informed about it. In addition to its own follow-up, Finland makes use of broader analyses of the country by other donors and, in particular, by the UN. As the report shows, Finland is acting to stabilise Afghanistan, including through bilateral relations, development cooperation and crisis management. The Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses the importance of a comprehensive approach and notes that it is being implemented well in Finland's support for Afghanistan. We will continue along this line. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs points out in its report that, despite extensive international support for the development of Afghanistan, progress has been slow and considers it necessary to assess the reasons why this is the case. This is reasonable and a good wish. It is clear that the achievement of development results in a fragile state of conflict is slow and that backward steps cannot be avoided and has not been avoided. Finland will monitor developments in Afghanistan comprehensively to ensure that our actions are timely and effective. The aim is to ensure the effectiveness of the aid by channelling Finland’s support through actors with long-term competence, widely networked, such as the World Bank and the UN. Finland’s development aid will be evaluated in the coming year. Based on the results of the evaluation, it will be examined whether Finland’s assistance responds correctly to Afghanistan’s development challenges. Mr President! The peace process is a key element of Afghanistan's stabilisation efforts. In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs rightly stresses the importance of wide-ranging peace negotiations. At the same time, the committee points out that broad national support for the process requires that the structures of the Afghan traditional social system, as well as women and young people, be adequately taken into account. This is an important point of view. The process must have strong local ownership in order to have long-term carrying value and achieve results. Finland will closely monitor the emerging peace process with and under the auspices of the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan. The cease-fire declared by President Ghani and the announcement made this weekend that the cease-fire would continue is news that was welcomed with joy both in Afghanistan and within the international community. The cease-fire gives hope for the peace process to progress after 17 years of war. At the same time, however, the recent unscrupulous and many civilian attacks have sadly reminded us of the complexity of the situation and the power struggle between the various terrorist organisations. Mr President! Development results cannot be achieved without social stability and security. NATO's decision to strengthen the Resolute Support training mission will respond to the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan in recent years. This reinforcement will help to reach a situation where the security sector in Afghanistan has achieved its full capacity and independence. A report to the Parliament suggests that Finland strengthens its participation in the Resolute Support crisis management operation in Afghanistan. Raising strength is part of the joint efforts of the international community to stabilise Afghanistan and in line with a widely shared assessment that Afghanistan needs international support to get on the road to more sustainable peace and stability. And just as the chairman of the committee, Matti Vanhanen, said, this increase in the number of soldiers has been thoroughly assessed from the safety point of view and from the point of view of what is a meaningful whole. When dealing with these numbers, they cannot be arbitrarily made on the basis of the day’s offer, but must be clearly reasoned views on what will also bring the greatest security in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a few speeches from a few groups at the beginning and then we shall have a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u28	Mr President! The President of the Republic will attend the NATO Summit in Brussels in July. One of the key themes in which he is also involved is precisely this situation in Afghanistan and the issue of the Finnish troops being sent to Afghanistan. This situation in Afghanistan is, after all, extremely problematic. The saddest thing about it is that it does not seem to have any reasonable or reassuring perspective. It is very open, confusing and without any clearly visible outcome. A few years ago, among other things, the American forces were in a situation where they were considered to be significantly reduced. And then what happened? It happened that, at the moment and all the time, some of them have been added, and there will be an increase in international troops again, and Finland is also included in this Appendix from about 40 to about 60 soldiers. Of course, this is absolutely necessary because if we suddenly left it, it would lead to a massive massacre and the situation would not be getting any better. All this involvement in Afghanistan has not been in vain, but has also achieved good results. In particular, I would like to mention education, especially for girls and women, which has had a very positive effect. But, as I said, the situation is not improving in any way, and I believe that the only way that this situation could improve would be to create a national reconciliation and peace process involving not only the leaders of the Taliban forces but also the various warlords in different regions who maintain and finance, among other things, the drugs business. In other words, I believe that such a national reconciliation and peace process would be the only way that could lead to a peaceful situation there. At the moment, it is not visible. There have been many contacts, but there is no final positive outcome in sight. There are also aspects of this issue in Afghanistan that rarely appear in the debate, including the refugee situation. There are currently millions of Afghan refugees in Iran and, depending on the situation in Iran, there is now a risk that these refugees will leave the country and move towards Europe. In other words, this arrangement can also ignore us Finns. But...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u29	President! We are all familiar with this subject when almost 20 years have really been involved in the consolidation efforts in Afghanistan. I am thinking in particular of the mandate of Matti Vanhanen's second government, when there was also an increase in the number of troops and demands for increased development efforts in Afghanistan. I was opposed to that increase in troops, but I was rather left alone in the government. As Minister for Foreign Trade and Development, I had more say in the role of development cooperation. I did not agree to increase development cooperation with Afghanistan at the time because it was precisely the quality problems that Mr Soini was talking about here. Afghanistan is an extremely difficult environment. It's a tricky place to send your own agents. We have to send money to multilateral organizations. The results are weak. It's hard to track, too. However, we have now given up, and Afghanistan has become Finland's largest partner in development cooperation. This has been a bad development. As far as military crisis management is concerned, Mauno Koivisto wrote in his Russian idea book in 2001 that Finland has taken the path of Charles XII and that too much money is being spent on international crisis management, military activities outside the country's borders, and then it may not be possible to defend its own country in a tight place. This is what happened to Charles XII. Well, soon after that, Finland went to Afghanistan. It was a frivolous decision. You might not have had to send troops there at the time. We could have shown solidarity by sending a few people to the headquarters, and the Finnish flag would have been there, but the NATO country in the wake of Norway and Sweden went there. Since then, the operation became more difficult and became a serious crisis management operation, it has even been said that Finland has been at war in Afghanistan, and there are considerable grounds for doing so. It would now be important for the government and Parliament to engage more extensively in this military crisis management. It would be considered how much resources are being used, where they are being used, to what extent in UN operations, to what extent in cooperation with NATO. It would be important to carry out this study. I have the impression that we have spent too much resources on this. It is still the case that Finland, as a leading country in the European Union, has taken the lead in promoting European defence cooperation and the development of a common defence which would bind us more and more demandingly to crisis management. Well, I think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u30	Representative Arhinmäki, and then after him we go to the debut for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u31	Mr President! The security situation in Afghanistan has clearly deteriorated in recent years, and the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan is also weak. Afghanistan still needs the support of the international community and will need it for a very long time. However, there is no military solution to the situation in Afghanistan. Support for Afghanistan is best done by supporting civilian crisis management and development and education cooperation, not through a military operation. In addition, humanitarian aid is needed in Afghanistan. The Afghan Government's own efforts to stabilise and develop its country must be supported. In addition, support should be given to the institution building of society and to the rights of women and girls. Finland would have much more to offer in development cooperation and civilian crisis management than through a military operation. In the past, Finland’s line has been to reduce and withdraw troops from Afghanistan. This line has been supported by the Left Alliance. Now the Government — and Parliament — is making a change in this direction without a thorough analysis and a lasting argument. In the report, the Government cannot provide a strategy or a vision of how to resolve the crisis in Afghanistan and how to build a sustainable society. Just as Mr Salolainen, Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, said in his own speech: there is no prospect. If there is an increase in the number of soldiers in any country or region, it must be able to justify what added value Finnish soldiers bring to the region and what kind of expertise Finns have to offer to resolve a crisis that would not be possible without Finnish troops. Mr President! The U.S. President Donald Trump's translation of Afghanistan policy and the request for additional troops seems to have changed the plans in other countries as well. The countries involved in the NATO-led operation are increasing some of their soldiers in Afghanistan. Finland’s participation in NATO Resolute Support will also be increased from around 40 soldiers to around 60 soldiers. The strengthening of the Afghanistan mission is to be blessed at the NATO Summit in July, and the increase in Finland's participation is mainly seen as pleasing to the United States and NATO. The presence of Finnish soldiers as such is not rising significantly, percentagely yes. Despite the relatively small number, this is a matter of principle, turning the Finnish line 180 degrees. Mr President! The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group's position on the proposal to increase the troops is negative. Increasing the number of Finnish soldiers does not solve the security and development situation of Afghans. On the contrary, we should look carefully at the way out of the military operation. The key to the solution lies in non-military activities. The military funds should be directed to the civilian side of Afghanistan. In order to stabilise the country, progress in the Afghan national peace process will play a key role. In this, Finland would certainly be able to provide expertise and mediation and civilian crisis management. And, quite rightly, as the Committee on Foreign Affairs states in its report, peace can only be found by involving all parties in the negotiations. Mr President! If the Government report is evaluated, then two more observations: It does not take sufficient account of the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan either. According to the Finnish Red Cross, more than 2 million people are in need of emergency aid due to direct conflict and, overall, around 3.3 million people, or 10% of the population, are in need of humanitarian aid. And the second point is that when everything turns out that the security situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated, it is incomprehensible that Finland is forced to return asylum seekers to Afghanistan. We should stop these things. It has even been exceptionally demanded by Amnesty International. Returns of at least children and families with children should be discontinued. Mr President! On this basis, I am submitting a proposal for a position in line with the report’s objection: ‘The Council of State is required not to take any action to increase the force in Afghanistan. “
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u32	And now a little debut. Mr Savola is the first to speak, and I would ask that those who want a reply should stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u33	Mr President! The situation in Afghanistan has indeed been difficult and has gone in a more difficult direction, and that is why this operation will now continue and Finland will participate in it. The solutions to the problems which have been partly achieved and which must be continued are obviously the training mentioned by Mr Salolainen — the training of girls, the training of young people. Education is the path by which the country can be stabilized and put back on its feet. What is always used to in Finland and what has also been desired is that we will have national benefits for our own defence from these operations. After all, our peacekeepers in that world are very competent, and this is of course one of them, which raises questions, because we are talking very strictly about foreign policy and we are sending these troops on the basis of a political decision. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister how you see these benefits also for our national defence of this operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u34	Mr President! I did not see in this debate that nobody had claimed that the situation in Afghanistan was not fragile. It is fragile and has a weak security situation. I think there is a very broad international view of this, and I do not think that anyone in this Chamber will dispute it either. Then the question arises as to whether Finland could be left out of this alone and think that others will take care of it. Why? No other country has any greater obligation or involvement in it, but this is the common responsibility of a wider international community to take care that the security situation of the people there will improve. Then the question of why the NATO operation is going to be difficult to participate in. NATO now happens to be the organisation, almost the only one in the world that organises joint operations of this type, and then we other countries will be organised by NATO, and I do not think there is any particular problem here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u35	Mr President! I'm picking up some quotes here. Foreign Minister Soini spoke of the emerging peace process. There was a ceasefire. On the other hand, 17 years have been waged. You said that the situation is complex and that terrorist organisations are confusing the situation with their own actions. Representative Salolainen said that there is no reassuring perspective, that the situation is confused, that there is yet another increase in the number of troops and that the situation is not improving. Mr Väyrynen was, if I sum up in this way, generally critical of this kind of aid to Afghanistan in this way. If you look back a little bit of history, then this Afghanistan is an inconsolable target. There have been bloody battles in Britain, there has been the Soviet Union in the 1970s and later Russia, now the USA, and there seems to be no end ahead. I would like to ask Foreign Minister Soin, if we look in the light of history, to compare, for example, South Korea and Vietnam, countries which have been rather uncomfortable in their history, there has been war, there has been misery,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u36	And the debate is still on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u37	Mr President! A week ago, we had the same topics in the referral debate as we have today, and I also say that Afghanistan is one of the poorest and most fragile countries in the world. The Committee on Foreign Affairs notes and asks why there has been no stabilisation and who is the wise one who knows what should be done. The Committee on Defence has also said quite well in its opinion that if the efforts to stabilise Afghanistan are not successful and the security situation continues to deteriorate, it will leave room for the strengthening of terrorism and extremism. The increase in instability would also threaten to lead to an uncontrolled increase in migration. It is precisely for this reason that it is important for Finland to work with others on a long-term basis in Afghanistan, so that democracy and equality can sometimes be achieved there and that women and girls have the same opportunities to live as others. That is what this is all about. I am also in favour of increasing the number of troops, i.e. it will be about 16 million, which will then go further in the next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u38	Mr President! As this report states, the only lasting way to peace in Afghanistan is political and must involve all the Afghan peoples. There is no military solution to the conflict in Afghanistan, or indeed conflicts. One key to the peace in Afghanistan lies in the half of the country's population, which has mainly not been involved in the conflict at all. So I'm talking about women and girls in Afghanistan. Experience from other crisis scenes in the world teaches that education for women and girls is an effective, perhaps the most effective way to promote peace and prosperity in such a country. Finland must continue and strengthen the training of Afghan girls through development cooperation. My question to Foreign Minister Soin is this: will the government not only invest in military efforts, but also in good old civilian crisis management, i.e. development cooperation and training for women and girls?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u39	Mr President! I can say that the People's Party's Parliamentary Group supports the proposal of the Left Alliance's Parliamentary Group. I do not fully share Mr Arhinmäki's views, but we support this proposal. Of course, this proposal that we do not increase the troops will not solve anything. In Afghanistan, if necessary, another country would increase its own troops. There are hundreds of German soldiers there. Germany could perhaps come here to compensate for Finland’s withdrawal from the increase in troops. We must remember that the biggest stakes in Afghanistan are those NATO countries that did not participate in the war in Iraq and began to show their solidarity with the United States and NATO by participating more strongly in the Afghanistan operation. I think it is a good thing that we do not increase the troops, then the others fill this gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u40	Madam President! Crisis management is very important work for a more stable society. At the same time, however, we must ensure that stability is sustainable. From this point of view, it is very important to draw attention to the role of girls and women, as the representatives of Mäkipää and Plant have just said very well. Abuse, violence and child marriages against children and women remain very serious and common problems in Afghanistan. Finland must therefore continue to be closely involved in its contribution to a better tomorrow in Afghanistan, and this will not be a matter for Finland at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u41	I will give you five more debatable speeches, then Minister Soini. These five persons are Savola, Elo, Jalonen, Mikkonen, Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u42	Madam President! One such curious feature and a very significant kind of course in this entire Afghanistan operation is the role of the United States. Their client makes some pretty squirming statements. In his election campaign he was still fiercely opposed to the whole Afghan operation and he wanted to withdraw from it, but now the United States is also adding troops and has asked us to join him. Actually, I'd like to ask the Foreign Minister's assessment: Now that there is a policy of this kind for the great power of the world, can we count on their commitment now in this operation, that they will take care of its own land, so that no more additional responsibilities will come at least now to other countries of NATO or to other countries of Europe, not to mention, for example, Finland? And I would actually ask about such a long-term plan that, now that we are involved in this, what is the prospect, when could we be in a position to put an end to this operation on the military side and on the crisis management side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u43	Madam President! As the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs rightly says, one important factor in this issue is uncontrolled immigration. What was the benefit of the fact that during Barack Obama, when he himself was greatly admired in Europe, the military presence was significantly reduced? As the committee rightly says, with the closure of the ISAF mission at the end of 2014, the situation only worsened. And here the left-wing coalition is proposing what Obama said, and what was the outcome? What's the point of leaving? That's the question. We also need to have selfish reasons to be there. It's this migration. People from Afghanistan are one of the largest groups in Europe. We also need more training for Afghans in this area, security training, and this military crisis management also supports our national defence capability, its development. We also have selfish reasons to be there, which is to say that if the Left Alliance says that the hoses are off, then the Blues say that we will continue to water. In Afghanistan, you have to grow more than just poppy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u44	Mr President! Through my experience of peacekeepers, I can say that it is essential to pay attention to the situation of women and children and to their improvement and education. Finland is a great country for peace-keeping, and our job description is usually such that we work very closely with the locals. The Finnish peacekeepers are known and we are trusted precisely from these local residents. So the credit is high.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u47	Mr President! As has been well mentioned here in order to achieve a stable, stable state in Afghanistan, this means that it will only be achieved through peace negotiations. This is something that the international community, Finland, the EU and everyone else there should now be able to support in the best possible way, and it should be ensured that all relevant groups there come to the same negotiating table. Just as many Members have said here, this change also stems from our ensuring that girls and women are actively involved in society, and education is the key and the way to it. Finland must also continue to do this work there. But as has also been pointed out here, the security situation in Afghanistan is indeed weak and there are many asylum seekers coming here. It is quite clear that we must now suspend the forced return to Afghanistan, because there the human rights situation and the security situation are extremely serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u48	Madam President! Representative Elo could spend more time doing the analysis than building the tongues of funny fun. I have to say, they're not very credible from your mouth. They sound memorized, and in it the mentor is tried to ape with a bad result. Madam President! Mr Vanhanen, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has in fact shown what is at stake here: since the United States and NATO are increasing the presence, again for a change, Finland wants to please these at the July meeting and therefore send more troops. We are not leaving Afghanistan — that is not the position of the Left Alliance — but, on the contrary, we need to invest more in improving the position of women and girls, in civilian crisis management, where we have our real skills. In fact, our criticisms are directed at what has actually come out of almost every speech: When there is no view, there is no plan, there is no future, so why send troops? Why don't we invest in it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u49	And Congressman Elo still had one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u50	Mr President! Yes, the line of the Left Alliance is to disengage the hoses from a military crisis management operation. You said that your line has previously been to reduce the number of troops, and that line is still the same, and you do not agree with this report, which has been done by the Committee on Foreign Affairs after reflection and consultation of experts. It is very clear here what I share with you that the situation is very fragile and difficult in Afghanistan. But that line of yours is not good enough, as it was not good enough for me to see the Obama line. It did not work to reduce the number of troops, but it needed both the stronger the force that the international community has brought in in this way and the soft power that is brought through development cooperation, among other things. [Ari Jalose’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u51	And Mr Arhinmäki, then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u52	Madam President! Apparently, Mr Elo, a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, does not even read the objections to the report when he says that the line is hosed off. The objection is that Finland must continue to be present in Afghanistan and, in particular, invest in where we have the skills, where it is most able to give in Afghanistan, especially to girls and women. We are investing in humanitarian aid, there is a humanitarian crisis, which is not reflected in the report at all. We are thinking primarily of people in Afghanistan. It must also be said that the perspective is very short if you say that Obama has made the situation so much worse. Almost 20 years have been militaryly present in a much larger number, and unfortunately the situation has not improved, which shows that there is no military solution to this crisis, but that it must be found specifically on the civilian side, that we should start looking for negotiations between the various groups. In fact, that is what I would like to ask Minister Soin: would you mind opening up the various groups with which we should now be able to reach the same table? It also means that the Taliban, although we do not like them and in no way sign their views, from among them too, at least those most peaceful ones must be involved in the negotiations. That is the only solution to the situation in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u54	Then Minister Soini, no more than five minutes, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u55	Madam President! I will start with this opportunity for peace negotiations. It would be in everyone's best interest. This is not only the Afghan problem but also the regional problem, which, of course, is most closely linked to Pakistan, but also to many others, on the other side, including Iran. The problem here, to a large extent, between the regime and the Taliban, is that the Taliban considers that Ghani and their partners are, as it were, a puppet government and they do not want to negotiate with them, but perhaps rather more directly with the Americans, whom they consider to be a party — that is their point of view in this matter. A negotiating table is necessary. Pakistan's role is extremely important. If we're thinking, for example. Osama bin Laden, who then fled Afghanistan and was finally found in Pakistan where he was killed, we understand that this is a regional issue. Then the really important thing is this position of girls and women. That is right: someone here said, I wonder if Mr Plant, very wisely, that there are half the people who have no part or lot in these violence, but they are the ones who suffer the most. This is an extremely big deal. Education, health care, including such things as a bank account: I am not going to name a country in North Africa where I went to see that a country is not just going to be stuck on a stick, but I asked there how many women have a bank account here. The answer was 9%. We can already see the extent of the problem here, and when we go to Afghanistan, I would argue that the figure is even lower. Ownership, small loans, all this — it would have the greatest impact on these. My mother, Eve, is almost 88 years old. And if anyone in this world gets rats in me, it's him. So we know that mothers can influence their children, their sons and others, and that is why it is extremely important to influence women and mothers in this area. I myself have visited Afghanistan twice, once as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in 2012 and now as Minister in late autumn 2016, and this is a very difficult situation. I have been to both Kabul and Mazar-i-Sharf, and in Mazar our troops will now focus. That's where we work together in the German leadership area. It is exactly what Mr Savola drew attention to, which would bring us the greatest benefit for national defence. We've learned quite a long lesson there in these years. But that cooperation in the north, taking into account self-protection, is apparently the best thing that exists and is possible. Then there's this drug deal, which is very problematic. It's a huge business. Because warlords also fund their activities, and this should be more effectively addressed. But then, if you think of refugeeism, which has brought us a lot of problems, it has brought to Finland two great citizens who, in my opinion, are in honour of their roots — Nasima Razmyar is a deputy mayor in Helsinki, and Moshtagh Yaghoubi scored a goal against Belarus on the Finnish football team. There are good things like this that not everything is problematic. But then, if we are thinking about a return policy, we must, in accordance with the rule of law, consider that those decisions are taken by the authorities and bodies concerned. There is nothing to be said about that, ladies and gentlemen, that politicians will begin to decide how these processes are going. They are official tasks and they must remain that way. Mr President! Finally, on this peacekeeping and crisis management: Of course, civilian crisis management is important. But I also say that when we were involved and we too have these fine people who volunteer in these areas — we had one brave woman there to work, help people, and he was kidnapped — it also mattered that we were present, we were trusted when we tried to get him out and eventually got him out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u56	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u57	Madam President! This operation in Afghanistan, as has now been the subject of this debate, is an operation in which Finland participates, so that the situation can be kept more stable there in the future, because the situation in the country is very fragile and problematic. The education of girls, children and young people needs to be continued, and these issues must also be secured insofar as development cooperation funds are being allocated to this country. We must bear these issues in mind very strongly. The second point is, of course, health care. That is what the Committee on Foreign Affairs also drew attention to in its opinion. This is one of the key issues that must be safeguarded in that country. Representative Elo pointed out that if we did not operate in this crisis management operation, what, in a way, would be the risks after how many asylum seekers would come to Europe and all the way to Finland. Of course, the primary task that we need to do is to work there on the ground through development cooperation, through crisis management and so on, so that we can also prevent this immigration and so that people can be there in their own country and at all. In other words, withdrawal is not realistic at the moment. When it comes to peacekeepers, we have knowledge, we have infinitely skilled soldiers to put in these tasks, reservists, people in general military service, and we are proud of them. What I would like to remind you of, and to which I would like to draw attention, must also support these people after returning home, because these are demanding tasks, extremely harsh ones. Insurance must be in order and I support these people, psychological support, all the support we can give here to those involved in these operations. We must also take care of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u58	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support Mr Arhinmäki's protest, in which he has well-founded the view of the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group on how increasing military presence will not solve the problems that have plagued Afghanistan for many years and decades. But I am also delighted that this issue of Finland's asylum policy has arisen in the context of this debate, because this contradiction is striking when you listen to these speeches here about the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan and also about the humanitarian crisis, and when you look at the decisions that immigration authorities are taking at the moment, that is to say, both Finland and the EU have tried to intensify returns to Afghanistan and Kabul, despite the fact that Kabul, for example, has been one of the most dangerous places in the world. In this regard, Foreign Minister Soini responded to this criticism by saying that Finland must act in accordance with the rule of law. However, I do not think it is a credit to the Finnish decision-makers that these issues go behind the backs of the officials, as it were. After all, they are always the government and political decision-makers in the country who bear responsibility for the kind of asylum policy and immigration policy in the country. It is also clear that the legislative changes voted on and discussed here in Parliament have contributed to this tightening up of the Finnish asylum policy line. One example is this deletion of the humanitarian protection category, which is estimated to be one of the reasons why this concept of internal escape is now increasingly applied in Finnish asylum decisions. This also has to do with this situation in Afghanistan, because Afghanistan is also being returned from Finland, with reference to this possibility of an internal escape. This reform of legal aid, which was carried out, and the rigorous forecast made for legal aid, has also been estimated to have undermined the quality of the asylum process and thus also led to such legal certainty and certainty that the asylum process has complied with these very principles of the rule of law to which the Foreign Minister referred, at least to the same extent as it was in the past. In other words, I see that this responsibility is above all the responsibility of the political decision-makers and the government, and in that respect I would like to see a more coherent approach in relation to Afghanistan, and that there is a policy to end these forced returns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u59	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for a very careful report. We have heard a great deal of experts, and of course that picture was what the committee also drew attention to, that, despite extensive assistance, the stabilisation of Afghanistan has not been successful over the years and that Parliament should be given the right and realistic picture of the situation in Afghanistan as far as possible. I'm sure everyone will share that view. The committee also drew attention to the fact that after the International ISAF mission was terminated at the end of 2014 — indeed, during the time of President Barack Obama of the United States of America — it only contributed to the deterioration of the security situation. This is also a little in response to the fact that, if it is said that there is no military solution, it is true, but even the military component will inevitably have its effects. Now President Trump's been pulling a different line. Whether it be for his blessing or not, it remains to be seen. But what's the point of leaving, I think it's the question of Finland, and yes, I think that Finland has some selfish reasons to be involved in Afghanistan and as a confirmation of this Resolute Support operation. Migration is one important issue. Afghanistan has not become many asylum seekers in Finland, but if you look at the situation in Europe as a whole, especially during 2015, it was one of the largest groups that came to Europe. In Afghanistan, highly skilled Finnish training assistance in the security sector is still needed and, as has been said, military crisis management in general supports the national defence capability and its development. Indeed, as the Foreign Minister pointed out, it is particularly important to take account of the influence of these actors in the region on the situation in Afghanistan. In particular, Pakistan, according to an expert assessment of what the Committee on Foreign Affairs received, has a significant impact on the way in which the Taliban operates and how, for example, peace talks could really progress between Taliban and the Afghan Government. Progress is slow, there is certainly a broad consensus on it, but if, in due course, I have been told, and now as a representative of the Blue Future, it is said that you want to help on the ground, then we will help on the ground. Increase presence and safeguard the good things that have been achieved. However, it has been proven that progress has been made in promoting the role of women and girls, for example. However, this crisis management is not being done at the expense of the resources of national defence; this is something that needs to be taken into account. This government has also increased resources for national defence, which is not out of it. And I must say here, when Mr Arhinmäki said that they would not pull the hoses out of this operation, your protest to the Committee on Foreign Affairs states: ‘In the past, the Finnish line has been reduced and de-engaged from Afghanistan. This line has been supported by the Left Alliance.” All right, that is what you said here in your speech. At the end, it is stated that ‘On the contrary, there should [Li Andersson's interlude] The blue view is that the developments in Afghanistan have taken place over a long period of time, and now, if the hoses were really pulled out, as the Left Alliance suggests, the results would probably be similar to those achieved then in 2014, i.e. a weakened security situation and a weaker position for ordinary Afghans and also Europeans as a result of this migration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u60	Madam President! Fortunately,Mr. Elo is not a doctor, not even a nearby nurse, because he has such a poor understanding of just simple medical issues, such as the fact that the ‘lettout’ means that treatment is immediately discontinued at the end of the day. When you, Mr Elo, try Minister Soin’s type of hound-humoristic rhetoric with a bit of bad success and you copied his old phrases, so Minister Soini can probably tell you what the “lettout ” means. It means immediate termination. And that is what you promised before the elections, Minister Soini, for Greece: even the euro will no longer go to Greece if the Finns are in the government. Two months went by from the election, not to pull the hoses off, but to give the Greek 3 package, which was also enthusiastically supported by Mrs Elo. [Simon Elo requests reply] Madam President! Therefore, the Left Alliance does not propose that the ‘lettout’ be used. This speech by Elo showed that he does not understand what he is talking about. We are specifically proposing a controlled withdrawal of military forces. The objection states that we will not increase the troops. Well, that's your show, isn't it? We're adding more troops. We are proposing not to increase the troops, but it is also stated that it is necessary to plan in a controlled way. I would like to emphasise even more strongly that this is not the case that Afghanistan is not being supported either. On the contrary, Afghanistan will have to be supported for decades by development cooperation, civilian crisis management, in many ways. And if you carefully read our objections and also look at our earlier views, then the result is clear: we want more — we want more development cooperation, we want more humanitarian aid, we want more civilian crisis management in Afghanistan. We want Finland to continue to support Afghan civilians, women, children, girls.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u61	Mr President! Of course it is that the socialist spends not only money but also a lot of time, that is what we have seen. It must be wondered that in the Defence Committee, Mr Mustajärvi leaves a dissenting opinion in which he states: ‘The Finnish Government will be suspended from the NATO-led military operation and will withdraw its troops. It was also the Finnish line before, but not anymore.” What is this other than pulling the hoses out of military crisis management? Does Mr Mustajärvi not represent the line of the Left Alliance? Doesn't the left hand know what the right one's doing? I'm not sure what's going on here. You, Mr Arhinmäki, can of course tell us who is in charge of the party: you, Mr Andersson or Mr Mustajärvi. Of course, your group must have discussed this at some point. The blue line has, of course, been what the government's line is, that development aid has been cut. We're not running away at all, but you seem to be running away from the fact that you want to cut those hoses off. This is all black and white here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u62	Madam President! I would prefer to quote my own objection, which states: ‘In contrast to concern, it should be more appropriate to clarify the level of government intervention on a farm operation. “ So if you read the objections to your own committee's reports, you would see that there is the same position. But what's relevant is that pulling the hoses means shutting someone down. It means that if the patient is ill, he dies when the hoses are removed. It's not a show, it's a controlled withdrawal. Instead, the same statement states: ‘The resources used for soldiers should be directed to the civilian side of Afghanistan. In order to stabilise the country, the progress of the Afghan national peace process plays a key role. In this respect, Finland would certainly be able to offer its expertise in mediation and civilian crisis management.” Please read the documents that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will decide. Don't come in here and talk nonsense.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u63	Let's go to that list of speakers now and then.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u64	Madam President! I would like to remind you that military crisis management is generally a peace-keeping exercise and if countries do not make decisions to send soldiers to peacekeeping missions, then such peace-keeping work cannot be done. It is not only humanitarian aid, because very valuable educational work is also being done, as the Finnish peacekeepers have done in Afghanistan. They have made a contribution, as it were: they have trained civil police officers and people who safeguard that democracy in that country. The question is whether the people of Afghanistan want the kind of democracy that we would like to take there. That is, of course, a big question which I do not wish to comment on here. I believe that the presence of Finnish peacekeepers has been very important and justified, and that is why I ask Minister Soin whether the financial affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are at an adequate level in this regard so that we can continue this successful operation in Afghanistan. As such, the military skills that are available there and the development of these skills has apparently already been achieved, but it is important that there is a demanding peace-keeping mission in which Finns are able to attend and gain the experience of it at the moment. Of course, the question may be whether these operations are expensive and whether their price in relation to the benefits gained is in the right direction. In that sense, it could sometimes be assessed whether it is more important to send peacekeepers or humanitarian work to the target countries. It is equally critical to assess whether humanitarian work produces sufficient results in Afghanistan or in other countries. At least I myself am concerned about drug production in Afghanistan, among other things, and such action would not justify it. Then, of course, a completely different matter is women's rights and these things which have not yet been sufficiently improved there. In that sense, too, the presence of Finns and the taking of soldiers have been quite justified. There has been results, but too little progress has been made. It is important that women's rights can also be safeguarded in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u65	Mr President! I know that it is customary in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to focus very carefully on the choice of words, on individual formulations and even on comma, but I must say that Mrs Elo is now looking for drama in places where there is no drama. So when you look at Mr Mustajärvi's dissenting opinion in the Committee on Defence and Mr Arhinmäki's proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the same words have even been used, the same concepts have been used in these. So there should be no doubt about this. The Left Alliance's parliamentary group's position on increasing the troops is negative. In addition to that, there is a policy of detachment of the government from a military operation. And note,Mr Elo, this word ‘managed’in every sense,in other words a policy of hosetitre,and a need to increase investment in civil crisis management,development cooperation andhumanitarian aid. Again, these statements and phrases, which Mr Elo has cultivated, are not in line with the real political line that has been put forward by representatives of the Left Alliance. Wish you had some sense in this debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u66	Madam President! Well, now that you've been hoping for it, that makes sense. You said I was clinging to certain words. It is true that you both use a fine phrase “government”. But what is the clear difference in this objection to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is representative of Arhinmäki, and then in the dissenting opinion given to the Committee on Defence, which is representative of Mustajärvi, is that Mr Mustajärvi's disagreement simply says that Finland should, Finland must now, in a controlled manner, break away from this operation, and then there, in the protest of Mr Arhinmäki, it is said that this matter must be clarified carefully. So, clearly, Lake Black here wants to put the hoses off. The only question is whether it is the line of the Left Alliance or whether it is the line of the Left Alliance that we must leave this operation here and now. As far as Finland's activities in Afghanistan are concerned, neither Finnish nor international troops are involved in fighting, when this is almost a picture. Finnish troops and international troops in general have given responsibility to the Afghans, and that is right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u67	Madam President! The blue future was already at the beginning of the past, and I must say that in the past, Mr Elo would have had a use, namely in the prestigious role of a cremlologist, in which the ideas of the current Soviet leadership were assessed, among other things, by the order in which the images were standing or on which side the comma was on. This is beginning to go to that level, but it is good that in the blue past we have representatives who respect the past who want to foster this good old Soviet political culture. Fortunately, however, most of this House looks to the future and wants to see to it that in the future we can build a better Afghanistan, a better world, and that is also in Finland's interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u68	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Arhinmäki for these colorful statements. But I think there is a pretty clear difference between taking a look at the comma now or not, whether or not we want to find out whether or not we want to do it here and now. You have a representative from Mustajärvi who wants to break away from this operation so that Finland breaks off here and now. You have a lesser position within your party, you just want to find out. That is why I have asked and asked for the third time, but I will probably not get an answer on the third occasion as to what is the line of the Left Alliance. Is it Arhinmäki's line to find out, to fund, to think, or is it the representative of Mustajärvi's line that the hoses are off? There's no answer to this, and I'm sure there's still no answer. But I agree with you on this point that peace in Afghanistan is our common goal; these means just seem to differ slightly from each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u69	Madam President! I understand that the blue past, sorry for the future, is the Leninist Kaderi party, where the great leader goes through every output of every representative on the agenda, so that they are measured in exactly the same way as in normal parliamentary, democratic parties, where representatives themselves write their protests and then summarise them. As has been heard here, the position of our party, of the current party chairman, of the previous chairman and of the parliamentary group, is the same as that which will be put to the vote tomorrow. It is the one that is written in the protest: ‘In contrast to concern about the government’s level-by-level operation, it should be clarified. “ The Council of State shall not take any And I don't see any other objections being made here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u70	Madam President! Thank you very much, Comunist... No, I am sorry, to the left-wing allies for this view. Clearly, you have been well acquainted with the past of a left-wing idea. Only in this respect must it be said that, apparently, then, when I received the third answer to the question, Mr Mustajärvi represents the minority, that is, a much stricter line than that which you object to. In reality, you want to find out, and then your representative Mustajärvi says that the hoses are off right now. So it seems that you have an internal difference here, no matter how it goes: the minority, the representative of Mustajärvi, and then the current President, the previous President, the majority. That is the situation with the present Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u71	Madam President! A party that has been born out of the pursuit of political game and self-interest and has no history and no future — but it is pleasant to hear that there has been so much history here, however, that we will begin to dig up an argument from the '60s to the 2010s debate. But why not, if this is for today’s discussion of this “Future Party. ” It will then be measured in the elections, how many people are interested in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u72	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. The Parliamentary Ombudsman, Petri Jääskeläinen, presents, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u73	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I am pleased and honoured to present to you the report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman for 2017. The year was 98th and was once again a record year. Both the number of complaints and the number of measures taken by the Ombudsman were the highest ever. So there's been a lot to tell. In addition to complaints, there has also been much to be told about the Ombudsman's specific tasks under international agreements. These include the control of the rights of persons who have lost their liberty and the enforcement of the rights of persons with disabilities. These tasks also involve international reporting obligations. As usual, at the beginning of the report, the Ombudsman and the assistant ombudsmen speak on a subject of their own choice. In my own speech, I address the problems of the implementation and implementation of the principle of publicity. It is not always easy to reconcile the principle of publicity with the different interests of confidentiality. At the same time, while efforts are being made to ensure the transparency of the activities of the authorities and the different confidentiality needs of the private, community and public authorities, regulation will inevitably become complex. The application of the Publicity Act has therefore proved challenging to the authorities and the Code of Conduct is not always known or respected. In some cases, I believe that the regulation of the Publicity Act on confidential authority documents is too absolute. In such cases, the Authority cannot provide information even if there is a very high public interest. Publicity may also be difficult to carry out through the anonymisation of personal data, as the possibility of identifying a person on the basis of other information cannot always be completely excluded. When a wide range of information is kept confidential and when information on the public parts of a document containing confidential information is required on request, the implementation of requests for information has become very burdensome for many authorities. It requires either anonymisation or deletion of secret points. In extreme cases, it may not be possible to carry out a request for information, let alone to do so within the time limits laid down in the Publicity Act. The Ministry of Justice intends to launch an evaluation of the revision of the Publicity Act. I think there is a need for reform. With the entry into force of the EU Data Protection Regulation, public authorities will become more concerned about the implementation of data protection. However, this must not take account of the principle of publicity, which is one of the cornerstones of a democratic society. Ms Sakslin, Assistant Ombudsman, will examine the role of the Ombudsman as the guardian of the supervisory authorities. The Ombudsman’s activities focus on the promotion of human rights, the assistance of an individual complainant and the protection of his rights. The Ombudsman’s specific tasks under international agreements also highlight the monitoring of the rights and treatment of vulnerable persons. It is also the task of the supreme judicial review to monitor that the primary legal protection arrangements work, i.e. to monitor supervisors. In addition, in the cases under investigation, the Ombudsman may make use of the specialised expertise of the specialised ombudsmen and other supervisory authorities by transferring matters to them and requesting their opinions. It is therefore important that the reform of the administrative and supervisory structures preserves or creates specialised authorities with adequate legal oversight powers. Reforms of European Union legislation must also ensure respect for the constitutional whole and its specific features. In his speech, Assistant Ombudsman Pasi Hölönen explains the Ombudsman's proposals for better regulation. He notes that the Ombudsman’s view of legal matters is unique in terms of the multidimensional nature of the institution’s field of action. This is not a sector-specific approach, but, on the contrary, a very wide-ranging legal perspective. This is also reflected in the Ombudsman’s legislative proposals. Information on the functioning of the administration and interpretative problems of the legislation may be passed on to the Ombudsman more comprehensively than to any other individual operator in Finland. This is one of the most effective forms of legality control. Legislative proposals complement the regular system of ex ante law enforcement. Legislative proposals are not legally binding. It is a question of discursive influence, whose effectiveness culminates in the legal certainty of the arguments put forward by the proposal. The law enforcement officer does not interfere with questions of appropriateness, but rather with legal issues. In general, the Ombudsman’s legislative proposals are responded positively. Madam President! Following these speeches, the report provides an overview of the activities of the Ombudsman’s institution in 2017. It contains information on issues and measures, as well as on various domestic and international events. In 2016, when we received 4,900 complaints, over 6,200 came in the reporting year. There were therefore approximately 1,300 complaints. A significant part of this increase is explained by the fact that the number of complaints against Kela concerning income support increased by around 700 compared to 2016, but also by a significant increase in other categories. Despite this increase, we were able to resolve almost as many complaints as they came, i.e. some 6100 complaints. I am very pleased and proud that there were no complaints before the end of the year that were more than a year old. This is the fifth time in a row that this objective has been achieved. It should be noted, however, that these results were not easy to produce, but the staff of the Office have worked at the limit of their ability to cope. 77 own initiatives were taken, which is also more than in the previous year when 60 were taken. Of all complaints and own initiatives, 1141 led to the Ombudsman’s actions. Perhaps because of comparison and in order to illustrate the volume of our activities, I can say that when 1141 of the Ombudsman's Office's complaints and own initiatives led to measures, there were 135 similar measures in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. Of course, the Chancellor of Justice has certain other points which the Ombudsman does not have at all. The number of inspections was 121, which is slightly more than in the previous year. Little more than half of them were unannounced, so-called surprise inspections. It should be noted that there were a dozen inspections in the Attorney General's office. The next broad section of the report, Section 3, deals with fundamental and human rights. This section includes the activities of the Ombudsman in specific tasks under international agreements which I mentioned at the beginning. Firstly, they are the role of the National Supervisory Body under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture, the so-called OPCAT mission. The task of the national supervisory body shall be to carry out inspections at places where persons who have lost their liberty are kept. I would stress that this is not only about prisoners or people in police custody, but also, for example, about elderly people, children, psychiatric patients and people with mental disabilities, i.e. very vulnerable people who are often unable to make complaints themselves, for example. This is why controls at these very sites are particularly important. With regard to this OPCAT task, for the first time we have had to make a decision that the report contains only summaries of the main findings and recommendations. A more detailed report will be published separately only in electronic format. There is so much to tell about OPCAT that the inclusion of everything in the Ombudsman's report would have overemphasized it. The second specific task is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Ombudsman, together with the Centre for Human Rights and its human rights delegation, shall act as a structure for promoting, protecting and monitoring the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities. This period of fundamental and human rights has also covered the Human Rights Centre and its activities. After all, the Human Rights Centre gives its own report, but it is not a Parliament document, and it is not dealt with in the same way as the Ombudsman's report. This section also contains a list of ten key Finnish fundamental and human rights problems, which in previous years has sparked debate in Parliament. This listing has been updated again. There have been positive developments in the elimination of certain shortcomings, but on the other hand some shortcomings have been identified more frequently than in the past. The basic and human rights sections have also reported on the Ombudsman’s proposals for compensation and on the issues leading to amicable settlement. These reflect the methods adopted by the Ombudsman’s Office to help people gain access to their rights. The section also deals with the theme of basic and human rights of the year. Every year we have such a basic and human rights theme. The theme of the reporting year was the right to an effective remedy. The section also includes the Ombudsman’s fundamental rights statements, based on complaints settled in the reporting year and own initiatives. Finally, this basic and human rights period has dealt with all the complaints of the reporting year against Finland before the European Court of Human Rights. It is gratifying that the Court of Human Rights issued a single judgment on Finland during the reporting year. It was about the duration of the trial. The fourth section is the most extensive section of the findings made in law enforcement by administrative sector or by group of subjects. I am not going to go any further in this presentation. Madam President! This is my presentation. I hope that this report will enable Parliament to assess not only the Ombudsman's activities but also the state of legislation and public administration and the implementation of fundamental and human rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u74	Thank you to the Parliamentary Ombudsman and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u75	Mr President! Once again, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman's Office deserve a great deal of credit for the work that has been done well. Of course, all I have been able to do is browse through this report and I will only pay selective attention to the situation of the disabled and the elderly. As Chairman of the Memory Union, I particularly take into account the issues that I think were raised about the legal security of people with memory problems. This report lists ten key basic and human rights problems in Finland, and once again the shortcomings in the conditions and treatment of the elderly and the problems with access to the participation of people with disabilities are on this list of ten. As the report states, care for the elderly is constantly becoming, year after year, an indication of food, hygiene, changing diapers, rehabilitation and outdoor activities. Often these shortcomings are due to insufficient staff. Too few staff will also lead to the use of unnecessary restrictive measures. Excessive medication, such as the use of sedatives, is also a chemical restriction. There are also shortcomings in the provision of services for elderly people living at home, safety, access to outdoor activities and services. We have people who are home care customers, people who often live alone with memory disorders, whose proper place to live is no longer their own home, but they would need community homes providing care and care 24 hours a day. We've gone too far with "the best place for the Occupied People"-to-mantra. The memory sufferer does not need institutional care, but he cannot be isolated alone in his own home because it is often no longer human at certain stages of the illness. Community homes include enhanced service housing, group housing and family care homes, and there are currently too few of these. In relation to the above, the problem is the lack of resources for internal control of the administration. Regional government authorities do not have the means to carry out adequate controls and, for example, do not have the means to monitor home services. Self-monitoring, as good as it is in principle, cannot replace the supervisory work of the authorities. As one way to improve the situation, I would see the establishment of a post of Ombudsman for the elderly. The mandated tasks would include improving the position of older people in our society, but also monitoring the overall quality of services and raising problems and making various recommendations. This report mentions the concept of ‘the right to self-determination’ and refers to the lack of a right to self-determination. I believe that the IMO law, the self-determination law, is about to enter the consultation process. As Chairman of the Memory Federation, I have followed the preparatory work on this law, and there is a lot of good in the new bill. For example, the law should include an obligation to make a self-determination plan for the customer. The will to treat and the supported decision-making also improve the making of a person’s own voice heard. The objective and purpose of the law are good, but we are Nevertheless, in the Memory Union, there is concern about the content of some legal articles. There are points that can make it possible to use unnecessary restrictive measures in the treatment of memory-diseased persons. In the Memory Union, we know that these methods are currently being used partly because not all care communities have the capacity, knowledge and skills to deal with memory-diseased people in the right, professional way. Skilled and professional staff, especially if resources are in order, can handle even difficult situations without using restrictive measures. But if the helper already has a basic attitude that includes aggressiveness in memory disorders, it can easily lead to the helper’s own incompetence to make the memory sufferer nervous. Throughout the process of drafting the law on self-determination, we have raised concerns that the bill should show more clearly the specific characteristics of treatment and care for people with memory disorders. We have a legitimate fear that restrictive measures will continue to be used in vain because the law allows them to be used in certain situations. Mr President! Another finding from year to year in the Ombudsman’s report is that equal opportunities for disabled people are not realised. There are shortcomings in the accessibility of premises, accessibility of services and the implementation of reasonable adjustments. We have stated in the Memory Union that, for example, making cognitive adjustments to enable people with memory disorders to continue working is very rare. Even the concept of cognitive adjustment seems very strange. Getting a diagnosis of memory disease often means retiring directly, even if reasonable cognitive adjustments allow working life to continue. Accessibility means not only accessibility, but accessibility of all senses — sight, hearing and perception must also be taken into account. The accessibility and accessibility of digital services, for example, remains a long way to go. The use of plain language would help many groups of people to cope better in the digital environment. Our aim must be a society that is accessible and accessible to all, for it serves us all equally. It is often imagined that accessibility would be more expensive, but that is not the case. If accessibility is taken into account from the beginning of the design, it will not be an additional cost. Here, too, alternative costs should be considered: what is the cost of, for example, home conversion work or transport services due to a lack of accessibility? Mr President! Of course, transport services are an important part of services for people with disabilities. Here, too, we have shortcomings. For example, in many municipalities, the use of transport services under the Disability Services Act is denied to a person with a memory disorder, even though memory disorders are neurologically disabled. It is also often impossible to get a personal assistant under the Disability Services Act for people with memory disorders. Hopefully, the new Disability Services Act will correct these problems and people with memory problems will be understood as disabled in Finland too, in accordance with the principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u76	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with an important document, the report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman for 2017. In my own speech, I will focus on the theme of payment disruption and recovery starting on page 196 of the report. Today we submitted a bill together with Mrs Myllykoski, Mr Pirttilahti, Mr Jaskar, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, Mr Vähämäki, Mr Kivelä, Mr Laukkanen and Mr Strand. We propose to amend the Credit Information Act and the enforcement cycle so that default marking should be removed from the credit information register whenever the debt has been settled or the reason for it has been removed. More than 376000 Finns have a default marking. According to the Ombudsman, a significant number of debtors have been wrongly identified as having suffered the consequences. I mean, what the hell? Has received a default note on incorrect grounds? This is an outrageously terrible thing. I read this section so many times that this page also came out of this book. How can it be that because of the Ministry of Justice’s information system, people have suffered for no reason? This is a very serious matter, and the Ministry of Justice should apologize to people and compensate for the suffering they have suffered. The failure marking makes life difficult for people in many ways. The subscription can prevent the acquisition of a rental dwelling, home insurance, electricity contract and telephone subscription contract and even employment. A woman told me she can't come to work in the capital region because she can't rent an apartment because of a default note. One person told me that you can't get out of an indoor air problem because you can't rent a new apartment because of a default note. I have heard earlier that incorrect entries have been made due, for example, to the error of enforcement men. When people have wrongly received a default marking, they have asked that the matter be corrected. However, why have these not been corrected despite people’s requests? That is what I would like the Ombudsman to answer. Why not fix it? That is what the citizens have said. They have been denied bank cards and their lives have become difficult for years. One person reported that the enforcement officer had found that he had made a mistake but could not correct the incoming default marking. Such activities have weakened people's confidence in Finland as the rule of law, as well as the fact that district courts have issued enforcement sentences without the recovery companies having any evidence of debt. Invented debts or outdated debts are put into enforcement. How can this be? Mr President! Just last week, the International Recovery Company Alektum received a warning from the Regional State Administrative Agency after having acted in violation of the law and good manner of recovery. Alektum had committed a number of infringements, including unduly prolonged recovery and unnecessary costs for the debtor and overcharged illegal recovery costs. There is an urgent need for more controls. Our citizens seem to be at the mercy of the exploiters, and it seems that Finland as a state is not able to protect them from these international predatory companies. Quick repairs to the laws are also needed. The bill we have tabled today therefore proposes that the default marking be removed as soon as the debt has been paid out. I absolutely cannot accept this current situation that the default marking will remain in the credit register for two to four years, even if the debt has been settled. People feel that they are greater criminals than those who commit violence, who survive with shorter penalties. Two years ago, I informed the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority of the practice of the electricity company Suur-Savo Electricity to require security when a person has a malfunction marking in the credit information. One family of children did not obtain the required security, which corresponded to five months of electricity bills in advance, and was not going to get electricity at home. The consumer ombudsman intervened as a necessity service without which consumers in today's society cannot survive, and it is therefore important to ensure reasonable access to the service for all consumers, regardless of their economic status and other circumstances. Access to electricity must be guaranteed to all consumers on reasonable terms, as the consumer ombudsman said and demanded that the electricity company change its practice. There are many of these cases in different parts of Finland. Not everyone's been given justice. How does the Ombudsman view the refusal of essential goods to those with a default mark? The Data Protection Supervisor has said that he does not have access to the credit register and that he cannot verify the accuracy of the register. However, in his report on this page 197, the Ombudsman proposes that the Data Protection Supervisor should be able to intervene in incorrect labelling on his behalf. According to the Ombudsman, how can the Data Protection Supervisor intervene if he does not have access to the register to check whether the register is correct? Who in Finland can check the accuracy of the credit register? How will the EU Data Protection Act address these vague practices of unreliable registers and the fact that people's data are not correct and cannot be corrected or verified?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u77	Madam President! When you look at this Ombudsman's report last year, you will be impressed by the enormous amount of work that the Ombudsman and his colleagues have done with honour. I would like to thank you very much for that, the organisation that you run and the staff as a whole. The number of solutions, 6100 solutions from last year and 6256 complaints received, well illustrates the enormous workload. I ask the Ombudsman two questions: The second relates to cooperation with the Chancellor of Justice, because there are complaints in the office you run, which are likely to be partly relevant in some cases to the administration of the Chancellor of Justice. Is the division of labour clear in this cooperation between you? The second question concerns the enormous amount of work already seen in this report. When you said in your speech that you have been under a working pressure to the limit, is there a solution to this prospect, because fatigue under a huge workload is not an honour either? Has there been a good solution to this that could be a smooth way forward, and in such a way that these impressive job results can actually be achieved next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u78	Madam President! Thank you to the Ombudsman for his extensive report and for his extremely important and good work in our society and in our society. In line with the proposal made by the Constitutional Committee in 2009, a section has been included in the Ombudsman's report which gives evidence of the most typical or long-term fundamental and human rights problems. This practice is well established in the form in which the Ombudsman raises the ten main problems. This report states that the problems are largely the same year after year. The ten-point list is based on the observations made by the Ombudsman in his activities and is not exhaustive in the sense that there are no serious human rights problems to be identified outside it. For example, problems such as racism or hate speech are not on this list, even though they are observed by other authorities. The listing in the Ombudsman's report is largely based on the findings of complaints and own-initiative inspections. As a positive point, the report states that although the problems are largely the same year after year, the Ombudsman's views and suggestions are very well followed. It is therefore effective. On the other hand, it may be said, even in a rather pessimistic realistic way, that some of the problems seem to be something that will always exist to some extent, but, of course, work must be done and done to solve the problems. The Ombudsman's report presents clear challenges to Parliament and the representatives of Parliament, not to mention the government, including this list. There are still shortcomings in the conditions and treatment of the elderly. Some of the human rights problems faced by this group are due to inadequate legislation. Although last season we achieved a fine old-age service law in which an elderly and elderly person rose to the status of a worthy subject, there were still serious shortcomings in legal protection. We are still completely lacking in the law governing limitation measures for the care of the elderly. In the current situation, freedom of movement and self-determination must be dealt with in practice without a legal basis laid down by law. The main projects for the coming parliamentary term should therefore include the drafting of legislation in this regard. In the early part of this parliamentary term, legislation on special care for people with mental disabilities was introduced, including a large share of the use of restrictive measures. Long enough, it focused on that part. In the end, a complex legislative package has improved the situation in this regard, but the Ombudsman notes in his report that there are still shortcomings in the practical application of the law. Of course, the law is quite recent and quite complex, and it may take time to adopt it, but it is good that attention is paid to it. The lack of a sufficient legal basis also concerns shortcomings in the legal protection of residents of institutions. In addition to institutional care for the elderly, legislation on control measures is also needed on the side of somatic health care. Furthermore, shortcomings in the legislation create unclear legal security situations in the area of mental health law. The Ombudsman’s report states that there is no provision in the Mental Health Act for staff to use force to restrict the freedom of movement of the patient outside the hospital’s territory or to bring the patient to a hospital outside its territory. There are no rules on how, for example, to arrange for a psychiatric patient to be transported to a court hearing and what, in such a case, are the powers of the staff of the escort. The situation is very practical, but the lack of clarity about powers and rights makes practical work more difficult. The Ombudsman has therefore suggested to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that the transport of patients, their treatment and conditions during transport, as well as the powers of escorts, should be explicitly regulated and that urgent action should be taken. Now I do not know whether Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's explanation of what legal projects are currently under way related to this — I am not quite so clear — but I am glad that some solutions are pending to the same type of problems. In other respects, the main shortcomings highlighted in that report relate to the lack of resources, including the lack of social workers qualified in child protection. In addition, the Ombudsman highlights shortcomings in the lack of adequate care for children's informed rights. For example, children placed in child protection do not receive sufficient information about their rights, such as the right to meet their social worker personally. As far as basic education is concerned, the Ombudsman draws attention to the shortcomings in the learning environment and, among other things, to the poor quality of indoor air, which we have talked a lot about here in Parliament, and to the bullying of schools, where we have also had something to discuss here year after year. Mr President! As some kind of question mark, I found in the list of ten points that the district court commissions, whose selection is made by municipal councils, pose a threat to the independence of the courts. It would be interesting to know whether there is any investigation or other evidence that the presence of the jury in the District Court would in any case have jeopardised the impartiality of the court’s decision. However, the presence of lay-manboarders, which has been much discussed and whose presence has been reduced, has long been seen as a good way of maintaining public confidence in the so-called common sense to some extent and taking part in debates in the courts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u79	Madam President! I must say straight away that I fully agree with Mr Tavitsainen's speech on the issue of debt default labelling. Let us hope for the success of the legislative initiative that has been tabled today in Parliament and so on that things are moving so that the condemned do not bear their burden any longer than the sentence has been passed, i.e. the debt has been paid. On the other hand, with satisfaction, this Ombudsman's report has pointed out that there are illegal entries there, if you could say so. In other words, when the legal process is in progress, it is not yet possible to determine whether there are grounds for default marking, if the case is at issue, and the explanation that has been made is particularly good. But another thing: Now that we are in the Chamber, I would have liked to ask: have we now assessed this imposition of a district court fee as to whether it constitutes a threat to legal security? When we know that, for example, parking fines have been appealed to the District Court — sometimes for an error payment of EUR 70 has been appealed to the District Court — and now that it costs EUR 250 to bring an action, has this now brought into this system a lever arm that treats those on low incomes in particular who do not have the EUR 250? Has the Ombudsman thought that this should be clarified in the rule of law when you apply for your own right and have to pay a significant percentage of earnings-related daily allowance per month for applying for Finnish law? — Madam President, let us continue with the next round.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u80	Mr President! I would like to say briefly to Mr Kantola that the legislation on self-determination is now in the process of being drawn up in that Ministry. The Memory Federation has been allowed to participate as a patient organisation from the point of view of memory sufferers in drafting this legislation. The problem with this legislation is, and will be, that within the same legislation attempts are being made to resolve the problem of the sovereignty of very different patients and customers. If it is thought that the same law provides for memory disorders, psychiatric illnesses or intoxicant patients in the emergency clinic, that aspect is quite different and restrictions on self-determination appear to be very different. That's why Of course, there is always concern in the Memory Union that in the future, for example, there will be no restriction measures in the case of memory disorders, as in the case of certainty, because we also have clear evidence that skilled and professional staff do not usually use these restrictive measures, but if there are staff in the care community who have no knowledge and skill, then there will be tranquilizers and binding and isolation, and so on, much more often. Now the purpose of the law seems to be really good, but when you read the law, when you read the law, there's such uncertainty as to what happens. But this law will then come to the Constitutional Committee for review in due course, and I hope that the Constitutional Committee will then look very carefully at this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u81	Madam President! In relation to these payment default markings: Now we have a system where the Association of Local and Regional Authorities in particular has been very critical of the fact that municipalities bill collection agencies. I would like to ask whether the correct interpretation by the Ombudsman in the Association of Local and Regional Authorities is that this is not a legitimate activity, but that the municipality itself should collect these unpaid invoices. And a little guidance for the MP: would it be good to change the law in such a way that, for example, customer fees related to municipal health services could be entitled to part-payments in order to avoid them going directly to collection agencies? Was it now that 370,000 people
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u84	Mr President! At the end of page 197, the Ombudsman draws the right attention to the matter, which relates to the costs of social welfare and health care and the difficulties caused by them. Last year, a total of 320,000 social welfare and health care customer fees, standard health centre fees, dental care, home service fees have been imposed. Even before this enforcement, people have had to deal with these international recovery companies, which are still being used by many municipalities, hospital districts and joint municipal authorities, although it has been said on several occasions that it does not make sense to use them, because they often fail to comply with the law on recovery costs and collection costs to such an extent that the EUR 20 customer fee will very quickly become several hundred euros and people will not then be able to cope with them. The Ombudsman here draws particular attention to these very equal payments, which are a problem, and he has discussed this with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, who has announced that he has put the municipal information system in place and is in the process of adopting a new bill on customer fees. Unfortunately, however, that does not seem to correct this problem of equal payments, because this draft new bill on customer fees contains exactly the same texts as the current law. In other words, payments based only on income could automatically be facilitated, and, as is the case today, equal payments will then be considered by municipalities and joint municipal boards, hospital districts. These are the main problems that have arisen. In other words, I would like to hear how the Ombudsman feels about this, that this problem, which you have also drawn attention to, does not seem to be resolved. Otherwise, I would also like to hear what the Ombudsman thinks about using international recovery companies to bill social welfare and health care customer fees. Usually, the collection company will be able to make a bill very quickly even before a person has even settled out of the hospital. It is unreasonable that, after being hospitalized, many very low-income pensioners will be receiving thousands of euros and will have no chance of surviving those bills.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u85	Mr President! I will come back to the need to develop legislation. Thank you, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, for the report on what is going on in the development of legislation regulating self-determination. I remember, indeed, when this legislation on special care for people with mental disabilities was drawn up between 2015 and 16, that there was quite a wide-ranging public debate, a debate of opinion which felt or expressed the concern that, now that we are dealing with the freedom of movement of people, the authorities and workers are given enormous powers to intervene in human freedoms. It was not a question of this, but of introducing a law governing both the rights of people and then the competences of those with disabilities, and of increasing legal protection in this way, without any desire to interfere in the freedom of people any more than had hitherto been interfered with. I believe that a little similar debate will certainly have to take place at a time when images have arisen but, on the other hand, there is a desire for precise legislation that takes care of people's legal security and limited powers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u86	Mr President! If we look back on last time, we were supposed to have this whole legislation in the last period, but the overall legislation stopped at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In other words, it was said and taken, among other things, that there was too much sort of statement in which restrictive measures came to the fore and not to support self-determination. In other words, in the last period the situation was in that legislation somehow the other way around, and since the overall legislation was interrupted, the disabled were then brought into their own legislation to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It had this kind of history. Now, in this period, we are going to re-establish the overall legislation to clarify matters of self-determination, and it is now much better than it was in the last period. As I have just said, the point of view of the last period was to list more when and what restrictive measures may be used, while, in this draft law, the basic position is that self-determination must be supported and self-determination made possible, and that is exactly the way in which it is. But, as I said, the spirit of this law and that goal are not always reflected in every place at the level of the law, but in some legal articles — I am speaking now as an expert in the treatment of memory disorders — there is a real risk that, in the interests of certainty, restrictive measures will be introduced which would not have to be used if there were a skilled and competent staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u87	Mr President! I did not find something here in the early childhood education section that I was a little bit digging into when, however, we were discussing the report for 2017 and in March 2017 the law on customer fees for early childhood education came into force. Clearly Article 13 of the Law In very clear terms, it says on this non-payment and reduction: ‘The paymentforearly education must not berecovered inasmuch as the collection of the payment is likely to jeopardise the conditions for the service user’s or family’s income or the fulfilment of the legalremuneration obligation of the parent or The reduction or non-payment of the contribution must always be made before the provision of income support under the Act on income support.’ Well, now, according to the most recent statistics of the Reichsvoud, 36,000 daily care fees from public day care centres were put into enforcement in 2017. And also in Kela’s statistics — and I do not remember the number now — there was quite a large amount of income support for which Kela had paid daily care fees, although according to this law, it is always necessary to reduce or waive the payment before granting income support in accordance with the Act on income support. Has there been any complaints or requests from the Ombudsman to find out how our municipalities comply with this law? What kind of practices are there in municipalities? Do people know that such a law on early childhood education fees and Article 13 Is there even a thing? Is it stated in the municipal day care bill that such a possibility of reducing fees is and what is the process of then granting these reductions to people? In my opinion, 36,000 day-care bills are a shocking amount, and it is certainly not in the best interests of a child to put a family in the process of enforcement, because it is certainly a threat to that family and that child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u88	All right, thank you. — Mr Jääskeläinen has promised to answer questions, please. Five minutes, tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u89	Madam President! I would like to thank you for these speeches, which all raised important issues. If I try briefly to answer these very direct questions: Here Mr Taavitsainen at least asked why he did not correct these incorrect statements of default. Now, from the Ombudsman's point of view, the problem is that these companies, which keep these payment default marking registers, are not within the Ombudsman's competence. In other words, we have not been able to find out directly from these companies whether they have been removed or why they have not been removed if they have not been removed. However, in the decision on these incorrect indications, I did point out that these incorrect entries should be deleted. And this decision went to the Data Protection Supervisor for information. Now we don't know if he's done anything. That sounded strange that the Data Protection Supervisor would not have access to these registers. I don't know what it could be based on. It is obviously a question of the register of persons, and if there is any doubt about the errors in the register, it is my opinion that it falls within the competence of the Data Protection Supervisor. But I can't tell you now where the opposite view might be based. The fact that some essentials are denied to a person who has a default mark: in the case of a private service provider who does not perform a public function, the Ombudsman cannot intervene, but if it is an authority or a public office, then it could. There were also some questions about customer fees. But it was the case of the Assistant Ombudsman, probably Assistant Ombudsman Sakslin, so that I cannot say more about it. And yet, for non-payment under the Early Education Act: Now even this early childhood education is not part of my sector in the division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Assistant Ombudsman. I cannot say if that has become a complaint to the Ombudsman. Mr Hoskonen asked about the cooperation and division of labour between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. The division of labour report should be on the way, i.e. the Ministry of Justice is in the process of setting up a working group on this development of the division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. Mr Hoskonen continued to ask about our ability to cope with this, when the number of things is rising. It's a bit of a difficult situation, isn't it? Fortunately, we have some discretion in the examination of complaints, and the greater the number of complaints we have to exercise, and then allocate these available resources as efficiently and appropriately as possible. The representative, Mr Kantola, drew attention to the fact that municipal councils chose district court commissions in practice on the basis of political quotas and this jeopardises the independence of the courts. This is actually a question of the objective neutrality of the courts. If and when it is the case that the jury has been elected on the basis of political quotas, i.e. that, in a way, a particular party is behind a certain jury, then if it is now thought that, for example, a district court is dealing with a case in which one or another party has contacts with some political parties — and now depends on whether the jury has the same party background or not — then this is a situation that jeopardises this so-called objective neutrality. This kind of board composition can and certainly is completely neutral in general. It is a matter of subjective neutrality, of genuine impartiality, but it does seem to be a problem if the jury there is a jury with the same party background and has been elected on the basis of the same party's quota as one of the parties. This is a bit the same — if I may illustrate this a little — as the fact that the composition of the court must not now have a close relative of any of the parties. And even if there is a close relative, it is quite possible that this kind of composition works completely impartially, but everyone understands that this kind of configuration does not inspire confidence. It is precisely this lack of objective impartiality that is at issue here, and in the same way this political background and the procedure for the selection of the jury are causing the problem from the point of view of this objective neutrality. That's what we're talking about here. Congressman Myllykoski asked if the court fee was a threat to legal protection. This is the kind of thing we're dealing with. This law on court fees is recent, after all. For example, when the administrative courts have been consulted, they have been consulted, and you can see from the statistics that there have been quite a few complaints from the administrative courts, such as the parking fee. Yes, in such cases, the problem is that even if there are legitimate grounds for contesting the parking fee, for example, few people go into the dispute because if you lose that case, you have to pay more as a court fee than that is the amount of the parking error fee. In these cases, it does jeopardise the right to effective legal remedies when they are not being used. But, Mr President, I think it is time that we spent it. [President PaulaRisikko : Did he still not reply?]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u92	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 14/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. First of all, the presentation, the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen, please. Then we'll have a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u93	Mr President! Here the Government's proposal to transform traffic control and management services into a limited liability company is based on the basic idea that this is linked to another government proposal from the Finnish Transport Agency, and it is under this that maritime, rail and road control will come under. The committee's report is somewhat critical in its tone, and the basis is that these critical interpretations are actually shared by both the government and the opposition. The conclusion is different because there is an anti-disgusting clause here. But in this report itself: According to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the incorporation of traffic management and management services by the Finnish Transport Agency will support the development of the digital and automated transport ecosystem and improve the accessibility of traffic management data. At the same time, it is stated that this will continue to guarantee cooperation between the authorities and that this information will be made more effective in mobilising and facilitating new business activities. In principle, the committee is in favour of the principles and objectives of incorporation. This form of company is faster in structure, more agile and so on. But then it comes to it but, in other words, corporate governance may not be so effective in this form of company, and, in relation to this form of company, the committee draws at least the attention of the following paragraph: ‘The committee shall take care that the activity of a company is not in democratic control and is not in the form of an agency. For this reason, the Committee stresses that state administration must also be able to develop and respond to new challenges, and that incorporation must not be the only option for the development of state functions.” In other words, this process of incorporation, which has been known for many years, even in previous governments, is highlighted here. Furthermore, as there are certain problems with the law on limited liability companies, particular attention must be paid to the fact that information flows between different operators. It needs to be developed and increased in particular. The committee considers it important that the formation of a new company does not undermine cooperation between the authorities and the coordination of the authorities. Then there are other authorities — and I am close to these rescue authorities — which means that the reform must not undermine public security, and this change must take into account all possible situations in society, including preparedness for crisis situations. In this context, although it is intended to be transparent, attention must also be paid to the fact that some of this information, which this form of limited liability company will have, is then confidential and must be properly processed. Furthermore, the committee is concerned about what the financial situation of this situation is and is drawn to the attention and emphasised in the following way: ‘The committee’s position on the cost of managing the company and draws the attention of the Council of State to the fact that as a consequence of the creation of the company,customer fees will not increase nor cost level recovery. “ In other words, if action does not go along with the desired and thought - out model, then logistics situations are needed to run this society, for example, so that we can get on the sea, on the rails or on the road. You can't take that hole out of there, but you have to replace it in some other way. However, as has been said, the conclusion of the critical report is different. In other words, this as a limited liability company can be founded on that agency reform, and the conclusion of the opposition — a large part of the opposition — is that this should be rejected. So here's the conclusion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u94	Madam President! Now we are dealing with the transformation of the Finnish Transport Agency's traffic control and management services into a limited liability company. The broad consultation in the Committee on Transport and Communications was similar in spirit to the fact that in principle the proposal was supported, but in the same sentence the spirit was that it is supported when nothing just changes. In actual fact, there were no statements in favour of or against reform and there were no serious problems in A little similar is the committee's report. If you read the general arguments, you might even get the impression that the committee would have tabled a piece of legislation at the end. The committee believes that the criteria and objectives of incorporation should be supported in principle, but believes that corporate governance is not very solid and that company-based activities also require compliance with business principles. In the Committee's general explanatory statement, the Committee stresses that the state administration must also be able to develop and meet new challenges and that incorporation must not be the only option for the development of state functions. The committee is also concerned about the concern which has often arisen in committee hearings that this form of company would not undermine cooperation between the authorities and the coordination of the authorities. Preparedness for crisis situations must be ensured, as must proper handling of confidential material. The general arguments also reflect the concern that the proposal does not mention the additional costs of companying — all of this when it is easy in practice to mean that the cost level will rise and, unfortunately, the increase in customer fees will also be true. Furthermore, the draft law cannot justify why the savings requested by the government to improve efficiency cannot be achieved in the form of an agency. Madam President! During the committee's work, clear arguments were missing, among other things, as to why the activities cannot be developed, best practices can be refined and joint support measures used as they stand, why it needs to be incorporated. Companying is also apparent in the sense that the company would be set up as a special task company controlled by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It is extremely bad governance that the draftsman of the legislation of the sector should at the same time direct both the company and its only customer, the Finnish Transport Agency. As may be seen from the foregoing, we Social Democrats, the Greens, the Greens and the Left have tabled an objection to this motion, and we will present it at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u95	Madam President! This is a rather interesting situation in which left-wing parties are very much opposed to the establishment of a state company. It's kind of ideologically funny, but that's what's happening. Personally, I think it's important that something like this brings a new idea here because the development of digital transport and the business environment is true and it needs to be able to make the most of it. In that sense, I would see that such a form of limited liability company is justified here. After all, in this sector, in rail, road and maritime traffic management, digitality is very advanced, but of course there is still a lot of work to be done about it. What is important here is, as mentioned in the general explanatory statement, to improve the usefulness of the data collected in traffic management. That is the thing that will surely benefit most in the future, that, when we are working hard to collect information, how it can be used to make regulation smoother, the role of the authority will be clearer and, therefore, safety will be increased. However, I think there are good examples of this type of activity in Finland and they have been mentioned here. For example, Finavia's operations have proved to be a very effective solution in my view. With regard to the rescue services, which the chairman of the committee has already pointed out, it is, of course, important that security issues should be secured here. It has also been a matter of economic benefits and additional costs, and this explanatory statement has asked what additional costs are to be incurred. Personally, I would rather ask in such a way that there will be any additional costs. Not necessarily, because when many functions are combined, it may be that it is even cheaper to do so. Perhaps I would like the Minister's answer on this point: will there even necessarily be additional costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u96	Madam President! Representative Pakkanen described the strange situation that left-wing parties were opposed to the formation of a state company. I don't think it's that straightforward. It might be that if we had a business that would operate and the State were to apply for shares in them and set up a state-owned company in them, perhaps that would be the situation you described. The situation is similar to that in the case of municipal workers who work with shovels or excavators in the municipality, and the municipality sets up a municipal company to which these workers are moving, i.e. moving to the private sector, so to speak. We have seen the state's ownership control drill, unfortunately. We have experience with Finavia, for example, which we were unable to grasp with state ownership control. When I have received my private bread from a limited company, I know that profitable business is based on the fact that the elements of profitable business are the company's own property and cannot be required to be released through the ownership of any state or the activities of the public authorities in order to promote other growth in private business. And this is what this is all about. What is written on the company form of this limited liability company is then the next step that must be taken very carefully if this proposal is not rejected, because it is the way of determining whether it is, for example, a non-profit limited liability company, and it may become registered in that form that the company's activities include all possible creation of new businesses in this country. I hope and believe it will be so recorded. But when I already spoke here in the referral debate that a limited company is now coming in, it was rejected that this is not going to happen, but we do now have a limited liability company in it. I believe that the management and coordination of its activities would work and would be more flexible and developed in such a way that it would continue to be an agency and that we would not have such a model of limited liability company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u97	Madam President! The representative Myllykoski described the form of limited liability company and the form of office in a very appropriate way. In this regard, our views may differ somewhat in the sense that private ownership and the form of limited liability companies or any other form of company are not necessarily inferior. At least the good benefits are that it is more agile in its operation. There is a great deal of call here for it and it is announced whether it is under democratic control, and that democratic control is certainly important in many of the tasks of public administration, but in such activities as what this company is beginning to do, there is more of such technology and technical action, and in my opinion there are much more important things to take into account than just democratic control. In that sense, this type of company activity may well be justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u98	Minister Berner, no more than three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u99	Madam President! It is quite true that the administrative sector must be developed from the point of view of the Agency and then from the point of view of commercial activities. That is why the Ministry of Transport and Communications has asked Parliament to develop widely in the field of agencies and to ensure that the authorities are developed through them. But this is not a matter of specific official functions, and we have already had limited liability companies in place for both rail transport and air transport, since 2014 as an independent railway company and then as an air assurance as part of Finavia, and now since last spring it has been an independent company. In other words, this has proved to be sensible, however, that road transport and maritime transport should also be operated in such a way that they form a single entity, so that information can be used in a rational way and at the same time ensure that services can be developed more widely and quickly and with better synergies. In this respect, the decisions are indeed taken by the previous government, and now we are continuing along the same path. We have had very good experiences with ANS Finland, whose services have developed significantly, and this is probably the only way to secure the future of small airports in Finland. However, this is only possible from the point of view of a special task company of which we have agreed, these companies would be. In terms of owner guidance, Parliament decides on the Finnish Transport Agency's budget and therefore also influences the development of services. Perhaps we should also remember that we do not have any charges on the road at the moment. Consequently, it cannot be considered that this change could lead to an increase in the level of payment or to a planned increase in the level of payments. In particular, cooperation between the authorities in air transport has been excellent among all the authorities, and the level of service has so far not been affected by the company in force. In addition, it is also important to note that cooperation between operators has been developed at many levels, based on agreements, and these agreements will continue to be compatible with the form of companies in the future. I would like to thank the committee for having done a good job in this regard. I understand that these are always challenging for ideological reasons. I personally hope that this is a long way to the future. I also believe that one day we will see how much our traffic will change and how important it is that traffic control remains in this process as well. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u100	Representative It's still a trout.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u101	Madam President! This issue of ideology was then referred to twice during this debate, and especially since Mr Pakkanen had doubts that the left was now opposed for ideological reasons only, I would just like to say that we would have liked this preparation to go out of those arguments and we would have liked to see clear arguments as to why this activity cannot be developed and these best practices refined, common support activities being used as they are, and why this is seen as the only alternative to being incorporated. I would also like to say that, now that this incorporation is justified by improving cost transparency, we strongly disagree with this, because in the form of a company, financial details tend to become business secrets and therefore the form of a company would not improve transparency for the supreme decision-making parliament of the state-owner. In our view, this is quite significant because the company is about to be transferred to a public authority and the company is in practice also budget-funded through the Transport Agency's agreement. We therefore see that, in the agency model, financial transparency could certainly also be achieved through the development of internal accounting and not through the introduction of automatics into this system of incorporation. As far as these economic effects or possible increases in payments are concerned, I would also like to remind the MPs of the government parties that, now that we are in the Chamber, there are no increases in the level of payments coming from this point of view, however, the general arguments put forward by the committee are quite one point, and I quote this directly from page 3: ‘The government’s proposals show that, as an immediate consequence, the changes in the economy of the organisations affected by the change are being dealt with, the State’s financial savings, the additional costs and the carryovers. However, the proposal does not mention the additional costs of incorporation. The committee is concerned about the costs of the incorporation and draws the Government's attention to the fact that as a result of the incorporation, customer fees should not be increased and the cost level should not increase." The last words of the last sentence are important and we have been quite united in the idea of producing this report in that committee, apart from the fact that there has been a rejection proposal, that is to say, in any case, the representatives of the government parties have genuinely taken care of this, that these levels of costs may rise and have not been studied and that there is no explanation of them. So, in my opinion, it is misleading here today to think that the cost level will not increase or perhaps change so that it is also reflected in customer charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u102	Madam President! I would like to repeat a few points of view. First of all, rail traffic control has already been incorporated into VR’s subsidiary in 2013 and in 2014 Sirpa Paatero led it into its own company. In the case of air transport, air navigation has already been incorporated when Finavia was established and is now separated from its own company. Again, neither of these solutions has contributed to raising the cost level. Instead, I would like to ask you how well you recognise or know the values of the balance sheet values of the cost structure within the agencies. In the context of the reform of the agency, we have now gone through this root, and we must say that it is much clearer to manage the company's balance sheet values and thus to have genuine transparency. We currently have two traffic control systems in the form of a company and two in the form of an agency. We are not now moving this form of government into a form of company, but we are precisely making sure that it will continue to be developed in the agencies in the future. We are now moving those who may have potential synergies with existing companies. From that point of view, we will continue the work already undertaken by the previous governments, which also responds to this time when automation and information management will significantly change but also enable a significant number of new business activities, both in air transport, small aviation, rail, road transport and shipping. I hope that this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u103	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 7/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u104	Mr President! The amendment to the Automotive and Vehicle Tax Act at first reading relates to the new measurement of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles included in EU legislation, which will further assess vehicle fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. The introduction of a new measurement method will increase the measured emission values of vehicles. In order to avoid an increase in the average level of car and vehicle taxation in Finland, the vehicle and vehicle tax levels of cars measured by the new measurement method will be adjusted to the CO2 emission values according to the new measurement method, so that the tax levels will remain unchanged on average according to the Government's proposal. The amendment to the Automotive Tax Act is intended to enter into force on 1. 1 September this year. Instead, the basic vehicle tax set out in the new tax table would only apply to the basic vehicle tax levied on 1 January 2020 and subsequent days. Mr President! In the Government's proposal, the adjustment of the tax tables has been pursued as closely as possible at different emission levels. However, on the basis of their own report, the car industry has come to the conclusion that the new car tax scale will increase the tax burden on medium and high-emission cars. The Ministry of Finance has had reservations about the report presented by the car industry. The amendment to the Automotive Tax Act is justified on 1 September of this year, i.e. from 1.9.2018, when the change in the measurement method for first registration requirements comes into force. This is also the view of the car industry on the date of entry into force. The committee notes in its report that information based on the new measurement method is beginning to accumulate more and more during this year. The committee therefore proposes that Parliament adopt the following statement: Mr President! The committee is also tabling an amendment to the entry into force provision. The new tax tables are to be applied only to vehicles whose emissions have been measured using the new WLTP measurement method, which will enter into force on 1 September 2018. However, it is possible that by the end of August 2018, the purchased order book will contain cars whose tax is determined on the basis of a new method of measurement. When this has not been foreseen in the decision to buy, a change in the tax level may become disproportionate in individual cases. In order to prevent this, the committee proposes to amend the entry into force rule so that the buyer has the right to choose the applicable tax scale in a situation where the vehicle has been ordered before 1.9.2018 and its date of imposition of the car tax is 1.9.2018 or later. According to the committee's proposal, taxation may be subject to a tax table 1 in the annex to the Automotive Tax Act if the taxpayer or the person responsible for the tax is required to do so. The requirement for this must be made by means of a tax return. It is a question of ensuring a reasonable outcome for the consumer in a limited transitional situation, not a tax policy solution. Mr President! The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u105	Mr President! I am pleased that the Committee on Finance took account of the issues raised in this referral debate. The good thing about this is that the legal protection of buyers is guaranteed in such a way that those who order a car before this law comes into force will be able to choose either on the basis of this new or the old, whichever is more advantageous to the buyer. It clarifies the market situation and causes fewer market failures than the government's proposal here in the referral debate. In this respect, I should like to thank the committee and its tax section for taking seriously the issues raised in the referral debate. However, for reasons of principle, I myself would like to take the floor. It must also be said, as a personal opinion, that it is a good thing that the Committee on Finance and the Tax Section have progressed on a precautionary basis and that it has made a statement there that the committee is monitoring the situation and that, in the event of market excesses and events such as those raised by the car industry, this situation can then be re-evaluated. In fact, I think a little like the car industry that there is an obvious risk here, because this table will now remain in force from the beginning of September, that it will be there, but with medium-emission cars and perhaps even with a little more emissions, which some large families will have to buy, the car tax will rise. It may also result in the intensification of the unfortunate phenomenon through different mechanisms, which is already apparent in Finland that this country is being used as a final disposal site for old, high-emission cars. I am sure the Germans and Swedes will thank you for that, because we now have a new car that is known to be expensive, and now, after this government proposal and the approval of Parliament, it is even more expensive. And when we know what discount these old diesels are now selling because of different policies in different countries — in Germany, the Supreme Administrative Court has authorised municipalities to ban certain cars — it inevitably leads to lower prices for these cars. As early as last year, 29500 passenger cars came to Finland, and there were vans on, and someone came to Finland 32500. It is now estimated that they will be 40,000 this year, and when they are on average 8.9 years old and they are false engine technology with carbon dioxide and harmful nitrogen oxides, I am therefore concerned that if Finland is committed to international agreements and intends to halve emissions from transport, then I do not really believe that the goal will be closer if some 40,000 old technology cars arrive here. However, it should be the case — it is my view — that the car tax will be abolished and that people will be able to buy cheaper and safer cars. It should be our way. And then it will also bring Finland closer to complying with the international agreements that we have made. That car tax can be abolished in such a way that it does not become a market disturbance when it is carried out in a controlled manner over a period of four to five years, but that is another matter. Why am I making speeches about cars in this toilet? Because I am interested in car taxation and have followed the long history of car taxation in Finland and I have to complain about this toilet saying that it has involved illegalities and arbitrages throughout what it has existed. You can't give a very big badge to anyone. And it still contains arbitrariness, and although experts from the Tax Department of the Ministry of Finance claim that the matter is in order, it really is not. That is different, but that is why this driving and related taxation is important, because I see that, in recent debates on the subject of social dialogue, we encounter more or less the interpretations and views of the Constitutional Committee every day. I would like this speech to be read once in a while by one of the constitutional experts who are considering the constitutionality of the current system, because the situation is that every Member of Parliament who comes from Eastern Finland or Northern Finland or from a distance knows exactly what is going on here — that we do not need a car of our own. Here you can freely choose whether to take public transport or to drive your own car. I've never needed my own car in practice in seven years. I've used it here, but I didn't need it. But when I live in Eastern Finland, at least our family can't get along without two cars, and that's mandatory. There are no buses and no others, and there are no things that can be delivered on public transport. So, in practice, we are suddenly in a situation where people are in an unequal position, even if we should strive for equality. I am absolutely convinced that if this car taxation and all the associated taxes, VAT and so forth — a total of 8.3 billion — were to be invented today and it was a government proposal and would go to the Constitutional Committee, it would by no means pass through the Constitutional Committee. And it is because of this that some people in Finland have been forced to use their own car, they have been forced to pay big taxes both when buying a car and when using a car, but here, where public transport operates, mainly in the major cities, people are free to choose whether to rely on public transport or buy their own car and use both or one of them. In most countries this freedom of choice is not possible. That's why this is important. I am not, therefore, concerned about the abolition of the car tax, and I am not concerned about this high level of taxation on transport, that the state does not need money for social welfare and health care and education, but that I do not know another tax system so unequal as the taxation of transport, which I have just justified. When I make this speech, I do understand and know that it does not necessarily alter the opinion of the officials of the Ministry of Finance that the car tax should be abolished, but I am talking about the fact that I think that someone is gradually beginning to pay attention to the fact that, when taxes are collected, taxation must be equal and fair and it must treat citizens equally, and if there is any way to avoid taxes but to others they are mandatory, then such a tax system is not very sensible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u106	Madam President! In particular, we must praise Mr Eestilä's expert speech on car taxation, how unequal it is and whether freedom of choice and so on is being achieved. We really must hope that this speech will go down in history in that respect. That was a good analysis. Car tax is an act of passion, as it is in this case. Of course, I should like to thank the section of the Committee on Budgets for this very proposal, but I would like to ask myself whether there is a system in which this car tax reform should be considered, on the whole, other than some emission-based carbon dioxide emissions or nitrogen oxides, because these are just these things, that it will then increase the situation of imported cars if these are the criteria. We have a lot of other options, perhaps there are congestion charges and things like this. It was a fun situation just now when there was a certain amount of congestion on the President's podium. It would always be nice to reflect on these types of issues, and the car tax reform should be entirely based on the abolition of the car tax and then on the way in which, even in constitutional terms, people would then be fairly taxed and that would raise this money for social and health care and education, which is of course necessary. But the money collected through this car tax has been such an easy solution in time, and I would at least see that these emissions are not the most equitable. It will, of course, be fair if we look at the environmental aspect and the trade in cars. It may then be that emissions are a criterion. But we have seen in recent years that even in that measurement of emissions there is little such a possibility of cheating, so that the system is not very reliable either. I would therefore see that this car tax reform should be raised like a cat on the table and considered in the sense of abolishing the car tax and then rightly considering good solutions, which would then be more equitable for people than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u107	Madam President! Car taxation is certainly one of Finland's most interesting topics for discussion, even though there are no more people, no more representatives. But there will certainly be a lot of discussion on car taxation at the various coffee tables, and after this presentation I believe that the debate is certainly not going to slow down. I think that the change from the beginning of September is justifiable, as Mr Kiviranta described in his own speech, but given the way in which the Finnish car tax system has been built in time — as the old patchwork has been repaired, repaired and once again corrected — I do not think anyone can really figure out how to tax Finnish motor vehicles today. As a result of climate emissions, I understand that we must aim for zero-emission transport as effectively as possible. That's a good goal, and that's what needs to be done. But Mr Eestilä well described the situation in Finland that we have areas such as Helsinki and the capital region and large cities where there is little need for passenger cars, but in rural areas, rural towns and elsewhere in Finland, a car is a necessity — without it you simply cannot manage. Then, when we do this new method of measuring, as Mr Markku Eestilä well described, it can, in fact, at worst lead to the fact that even if a family with more than one child needs a larger car with a much larger car tax according to the new method of measuring it, then, as Mr Markku Eestilä well described, there will come from Germany and elsewhere in Central Europe cheaper cars here that are not, in terms of emissions, what this reform is aimed at — that is, less emissions. This makes me sad when it's like this patching up all the time. Madam President, I would like to see the calculation of emissions from cars actually do something good with regard to climate policy, and that would be that we, without inhibition and with all the means available, would try to make Finnish transport fuels more and more renewable. Today it is about 10%, which we have bio-divided in transport fuels, but I cannot understand it when, for example, in Brazil we drive passenger cars that are almost entirely powered by ethanol, which is made from local cane sugar. In other words, the emissions there are certainly much lower, because they use a renewable fraction almost entirely. This, in my opinion, would be a big road for the future. Of course, I understand the need for tax revenue in the state treasury, and the car is one of the best forms of taxation in this country. After all, the old joke is still true that A always starts with alcohol, car and housing. One way or another, the tax is collected. But in any case, in this country we should at last get into that thinking — the next government, whoever it is or whatever it is — and discuss how we put this car tax on a sustainable basis, or make a decision to drive more and more domestic substances.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u108	Madam President! I will now take up Mr Hoskonen' s speech in that regard, in that I hope you will not mean that your speech will not mean that more pine oil will always be burned on top of the piston. On the contrary, high-value products should be promoted more, and if we then create new technologies, which will enable us to produce biogas and other renewable energies for transport use, then it will certainly be healthy and in the right direction. But the kind of raw material that, according to my own interpretation, is mistakenly classified as waste and scrap, even though it has already been processed for 80 years from the pulpette, should not be involved in this category of biofuels. But as Mr Hoskonen said earlier, yes, Mr Eestilä's speech was, if not now, a traffic stop, at least it was a very positive one. In other words, the moderation of car taxation and all taxes levied on driving should allow for the future well-being of everyone, especially those who are forced to use private cars. During the last parliamentary term, Minister Kyllönen, in his capacity as Minister of Transport, introduced a bold proposal that we could have a traffic monitoring tax, which, of course, was knocked out as a prying and control on the grounds of privacy. However, I think it is quite important for us to have the courage to reform our own thinking when we are all under certain control through our refrigerators and toasters. If we now have an operating model based on this kind of tax refund system for commuting and those who travel there, then we should have, in a way, taxes on motoring based on commuting. People in sparsely populated areas who only have access to their own passenger car should have more reasonable car taxation than when you live here in the capital region and have those services available in the context of public transport. People should therefore be equalised. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Madam President! I will return to the point when, in fact, Mr Estilä opened up the content of my speech to the very point where it is possible to treat people equally through taxation. It is certainly the fact that people are equalised on the basis of their place of residence and so on. As far as taxation and, for example, commuting, where we have quite challenging targets, we should have positive thinking that the more car driving is abandoned, the more you can win in taxation. So we could do carpools — what is now being used, but people still report that they take their own car on tours, even though four people may then travel in the same car and alternate it — the temptation was that if you don’t use your own car, you will get certain benefits in taxation when you take someone else’s car to the station. In other words, it would be translated into a system that would attract a reduction in the use of its own car. However, we must continue to strive for such unity, and I am not yet quite sure how this would happen if the Constitutional Committee were to think about this now, but I am inclined to believe that it would be quite a few corners away if this current tax system were now brought into force. Perhaps there in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, even the next year after the wars, we would be considering how this is going to be. As far as car taxation is concerned from the point of view of the big cars imported from Germany or imported from Germany in general, it is a healthy observation that we are going to have a fleet of cars imported from Central Europe, because their prices are going to fall more than the price of new cars here, and that is going to be a real challenge. And it does not have to be thought that ten - year - old cars are being imported from there, but that much younger cars, which are diesel - powered cars, are being imported from there. This will result in a rather rapid change in rhythm due to the requirements for diesel cars in Germany, for example. We're going to face that flood of imported cars here. Well, is there a three-year-old car, can you say that its emission technology is much worse than the new one? I do not see any major threats, but this will certainly be the case when their buying speed will be very strong as there will be an oversupply, as our neighbours and, as in industry, the main competitors, as in the rest of the world, make this activity attractive to us by means of their own legislation, and the supply will increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u109	Mr President! Here, Mr Eestilä and other fellow Members have made excellent speeches on car tax in general and have also, at least Mr Eestilä, been used in the dark history of the taxation of imported cars. But if we talk about this proposal, which we now have before us, then the Finance Committee's tax section carefully addressed this proposal and had time to look carefully at it, despite the fact that it was not given to Parliament until the last day of May, that is, less than three weeks ago. We have heard widely twice in such a way that representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the car industry were present at the same time, and a good dialogue was reached. But in this timetable, when the car industry also felt that this change should, in the interests of the sector, be brought into force 1. We were able to do no better than this statement, which, however, obliges the Ministry of Finance to follow up and present an expert report specifically on the impact of these tax tables, as it will now be better cleared up. And we set a pretty tight schedule by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u110	Mr President! In my opinion, the tax section of the Committee on Finance, chaired by Mr Kiviranta, has done good work on the timetable they have been given. It is absolutely impossible to go out and get a reference and reliable study of how each car brand should be handled and understands it. However, in a short period of time, you have made changes to improve legal certainty and have left the situation to be monitored and whether the views of the Ministry of Finance are then correct. Then let us see at the end of the year and perhaps at the beginning of next year and probably from then on — whoever is in this house. But I would like to say when it comes to the old saying that ‘as the population gets fewer, so much as better’,that the number of representatives of the people at the full session obviously has an effect,because the speeches made this evening have It is not a question of who may be right or wrong, but these must be considered because the situation in the world is changing substantially. If my information is correct, only 10% of 18-year-olds in Stockholm will drive a driving licence. That it will change completely in different regions, and then one can ask whether there is such a form of taxation, the basis of which comes from a society 30 years ago... I understand that in time, when the car tax and the car tax had arrived, everyone was obsessed with cars and people were driving their own car. Then society began to change and public transport began to develop especially where there are people. The question then has to be asked whether this form of tax, based on a history, should be updated. I would like to suggest that when this one piece of dirt is taken off the list, if that is possible, then next we will start the traffic wars, but I will not do so because it will take 15 years before changes can be made. We have to do something about this, but let's see what it is. However, I would have liked to see a matter as important as the taxation of motor vehicles, which has an overall package of 8.3 billion, be of a little more interest to Members of Parliament than to what is sitting in the Chamber this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u111	Madam President! Mr Eestilä was absolutely right about that. I wish there had been more representatives here myself. However, this should reflect the situation that, on average, we are satisfied with the level of taxation — when we go to elections somewhere, generally there is less satisfaction. However, when new cars are taxed, this environmental argument is, of course, quite sustainable. It is not a denial, but when we create such boundaries, as is now the case with 1 Corinthians 1: 1 - 3. On September, these new cars will have that new method of calculation and then they will be taxed on older cars in a way that is older than taxes, so then, as Mr Markku Eestilä well described, they will start coming here from Germany with the good cars used as such, and they will pretend to be the cars that save this climate change. It might be a little sarcasm to say that these tamperings with computer systems have now taken place in Germany, so that car emissions are more than they seem to be in the measurement, and here we have just read in the newspapers that the leader of a few large car-houses had been put behind bars because apparently he was actively involved in this tampering with the emission results so that the car shows less emissions in the measurement than they really are. It came to mind that when this reform is now going through — and it is good that it is doing — as I said in my previous speech, the real change in Finland comes from the fact that we are finally starting to use these domestic raw materials for the production of transport fuels. Representative Myllykoski was concerned about whether a tree would suffice in Finland. As we know, no sensible person is saying that there is not so much of that rubbishwood in the present system, the Fischer-Tropsch method. That would be good enough for us. What the forest industry is saying is purely their propaganda, because they do not want the monopoly to break, of course not. In any case, the forest industry is taking wood from the forest today, and that is what it will receive, and this is what I am talking about, the use of renewable energies in the production of biofuels is not disturbing. It is purely a question of market surveillance. Take a look at the price of wood today, the price ratio between logs and fiberwood. The Competition Authority in this country controls the market situation, but it allows such market distortions to go unnoticed, even though it knows very well that it is a market manipulation issue and nothing else. This is why the use of renewable raw materials, not raw materials from food production, but wood and even peat, in the production of domestic fuels would of course be an extremely great thing for Finland. I know that peat has been criminalized and there will be a huge noise in this city if peat is defended, but I have asked after it that when peat is resisted even now as a raw material for domestic transport fuels — if one day that day were to come — a new record was made in this city last winter, in the year of Finland’s independence, in the burning of coal. It is quite a paradox that when the sleepers are saturated with creosote, or coal tar, the greens are extremely concerned about it when it is poison — gross, terrible poison — but the same substance is burned hundreds of thousands of tons in those power plants, the smoke is spread from smoke-sprays throughout Helsinki and throughout the capital region, and it does not worry the greens at all. This is something I sometimes wonder in quiet moments of the night if this makes any sense. It makes no sense to burn coal now, when, in fact, there are raw materials in your own country, for example, for transport fuel. That's how we're gonna get these emissions under control. I understand Mr Kiviranta’s excellent report — it is a good report and an expertly done, a perfect performance — but as long as we are deluding with these various taxes... Finally, Mr President, the best climate policy for a retired person living in Ilomants is when he drives the old Toyota Corolla, which he has maintained for 20 years. It is always the best option in terms of climate and the environment when he drives that car: there will be no extra emissions, and in the second place when he makes the best use of natural resources and then in the old days it will be scrapped and then in the future a little taxed low-emission car will be bought, then the world will be saved. But in this way that we are going to change it or a little of that tax, in the way that is being done, nothing will be saved, but we are simply opening the door to already manipulated cars from Germany, from which climate emissions have been reduced by computer programs, not really.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u112	Madam President! It's just a fix. In my speech, I did not question at all the adequacy of Finland's forests or wood resources. I didn't say a word about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u113	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u114	Madam President! The committee's work was one-sided and very constructive, but nevertheless a few points which are worrying led me to make the statements in accordance with the distribution. A few words about that. First of all, ‘the Commission requires the government to become involved in action to amend the legislation,so that the private This is precisely in connection with the fact that there is an area of vision which is in the road law but which is now brought into this private road law, so that, measured from the middle of the road, 12 metres can be classified as an area of vision, and at its worst, it means that the right of construction indicated in the formula will be reduced if this law prevails over the building right defined in the formula, and that is why this statement in this form means that the right of construction indicated in the formula cannot be reduced by the imposition of private road law. Secondly, ‘the government requires that measures to amend legislation are taken by the government,so that the possibility of dismantling is not defined in the It is justified in the Private Road Act that the right to land from this area of vision does not apply to a building for housing purposes, but as I am growing up in rural areas, and I was driving a few private roads in the framework of this legislation, and I said that quite a few mouths and barns might be under this demolition sentence. When we know what we Finns are like, that we are terribly sensitive to criticism and that the neighbourly agreement is not always good on the whole, it is important that this statement should come there, so that people who are engaged in farming, especially in sparsely populated areas, can be safe in such a way that the barns and buildings which have already been built are not covered by this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u115	Madam President! In the first reading of this private road law, much was said about this very existence and the disappearance of the municipal road council, but then it was not realized that there are other factors of this kind, which can then affect the emergence of such road disputes, which may come under the guise of the law, even for buildings or buildings operating in the business community, which have already been granted a building permit long ago. If you remember these old private road construction jobs, when they were made together, you usually tried to build your own house or some building — even a garage — so much closer that you didn’t have to do your part with very heavy costs that you could afford to move a little as you did with your own money. Then, when you have been involved in these road disputes, and you have even been so sad that you have even lost your breath, there have been no decisions when disputes have become so gloomy that you have been attacked and then you have been attacked over property. Here is now the chance, if not to get these things fixed, that may endanger private man's livelihood and weaken his livelihood. That is why I think that the efforts that have been made on this issue are very important and good, and I support Mr Myllykoski's proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u116	Madam President! I think the reform of the private road law has been a good project. Of course, it goes into a new era when the administration of the road boards is changing and the committees dealing with these private road issues in the municipalities are being dissolved and then, when the new era comes, it is possible, of course, to set up such a negotiating or conciliation body, which, of course, is not a court. It should be borne in mind that the Road Committee itself has not been a court of law. It did not have legal jurisdiction, of course, but it was just such a dispute settlement body that then settled disputes between the members of the road. From experience, I know that for 25 years as a advisor to the Forest Management Association, when, in practice, every day driving private roads in their own car on business trips, it was extremely rare for a road dispute to have led to the highest bodies, i.e. the land court, to resolve that dispute, but in practice they were solved by the municipal road council and people were satisfied with it. The matter was well handled and a huge amount of cost was saved. There was expertise in the municipalities, still there. Road engineers are actually increasingly learned, this new generation, which has taken responsibility for the retirement of former officials. There is also a provision in the new road law that road shareholders are free to decide when, for example, municipal structures in society are being built, usually under roads or a road section or near the road. Now, according to the new law, we no longer need the permission of the landowner, but the road can decide that, for example, when the fibre cable is pulled, it can be drawn to the road area with the permission of the road body without being consulted on the landowners. After all, a country in a private road is the land of the landowner whose land the road is in, but this gives the road a common decision-making power so that it is no longer behind the word of the landowner, but the common road can decide, for example, that it can be drawn into it by a water pipeline going into the municipality or entering the area. With current techniques, it's a very easy job. This has led to a great deal of progress. One thing that's actually pretty good, even though I was a little concerned at the beginning: It is good that these small roads are organised in such a way that they become legal institutions. After all, we no longer need official deliveries, but this current amendment to the private road law, which is currently being discussed here, allows for this kind of contract procedure. In other words, the road partners jointly sign the charter to establish the road to which a name is to be given — a name must be given to the child at the meeting which is the name of this road. Of course, when I am a member of many Tiedees for a reason, those meetings genuinely deal with the matters of the Tiede. Everyman's rights are not affected in any way, even though the roads can charge tolls — and I will just say that, Mr President, that is, this new law makes it possible to collect that fee, but this does not, of course, affect everyman's right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u117	Madam President! It is a pity that I was on my way to the committee when this issue was discussed when the report came into this Chamber, but perhaps I will now take the floor a little late in the day. I regret this general discussion of my second reading, but it is, in a way, necessary to say to Mrs Hoskonen that this is also a problem in this law, this complaint procedure and dispute settlement, not a solution. We are talking about relocations from regions and regions, while in the same committee, with regard to the road law, all references to the province were deleted precisely because it is not valid and it is not known when. There is a slight inconsistency here that it is already sworn on this side that the settlement of these disputes will be in the future provinces, when, at least personally, I would have liked it more to have read that a municipal official is a person who can settle a dispute, i.e. a civil servant from the building or the road, so that it would not be transferred to the province now but would have been kept close to a person. Well, then let's say there's going to be ice cream problems and so on. I do not consider a municipal official to be left in office to settle disputes. From the point of view of the administrative court and whether the land court, which is in Finland separately in certain court courts of appeal, was a clear signal that some filter is needed that it does not happen that every dispute is settled in the district court. It's congestion, it's expensive. And today, when the Ombudsman's report was discussed, I raised the issue that legal certainty is being jeopardised when a disputing party who feels that he is a suffering party has to pay EUR 250 for taking the process forward. It is somewhat contradictory that we took that filter away from it, because, if I remember correctly, almost 80% of the disputes ended with the road boards. This was now taken away, and it will burden district courts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u118	Mr President! Indeed, I can see that we are moving towards a new era. I agree 100% with Mrs Myllykoski that the abolition of municipal road boards could have remained in such a way that it could have been recorded in this law that these road boards will cease when the provincial administration starts, and then the provincial administration will, for example, contribute to the establishment of some of its own mediation bodies or committees, whatever their name is now. Of course, a municipality as an independent operator can set up a conciliation body in its own territory. As far as I am concerned, it does not violate any law if one of the sections of the municipal technical committee were to continue with such a conciliation body of the road commission. That's a legitimate activity. As far as the issue of ice fishing within the municipality is concerned, in my own municipality of Ilomants, I am sure that I know for a fact that, in my opinion, the issue of ice fishing is handled in an exemplary manner. If a member suspects that someone is dealing with a matter of a relative, even now on the board, it will certainly be pointed out. And the person in question already knows it and knows to be away at that moment, declares himself to be frozen. Which means I don't see the problem with the ice flint. People, when they know each other well, know how ice cream works in style. That's not a problem. It becomes a problem if you go to a district court. As you know, taking a road dispute to a district court will very easily result in thousands of euros being spent. I am a member of two faculties, of which the annual spending of the second is approximately EUR 1500 per year. So with this money that the road system spends on road maintenance every year, not even one district case would be taken care of. It costs so much. So here is clearly a legal deficit at birth, when if someone wants to fight, then this kind of small road system it will bankrupt under the time-span. And in practice, road maintenance suffers enormously. That is what I would like to see changed the next time this private road law is filed. If anyone is still sitting here in the next parliamentary term — that is what the people decide — and Mrs Myllykoski, as an active man and a good representative, will certainly be doing so here, I very much hope that she will at least raise this point so that the private road law can be changed to the effect that these road boards will be restored. I remember a disassembly delivery where the land gauge divided the property and set up a road court there and then gave this new property owner its delivery book and stated that the road court is here and you can build the road. He then also made a complaint and said that the ground court could appeal to the parties arguing about these road decisions, but he already announced at this stage that no such road court has abolished, that you can appeal if you want to get rid of your money. This is what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u119	Madam President! In this debate, we have such a problem — when I left to think about how things are going — that this is going to happen in a way that we do not have a provincial law and we do not have any provinces, but this law is moving forward. This is what's gonna happen. And before those provincial laws are in force, this law is in force. If the county laws are still significantly delayed, we will have the situation in the future that there is no such arbitration board, there is no law-ordered official who will start dealing with these disputes further, and that is just a district court case. If you think about these individual legal disasters, they will be in a rather difficult situation during this intermission before this matter has been completed. That is why, at least personally, I think it is extremely important that those statements that we made should be included in this, so that some kind of legal protection in disputes can be put in place in the background, so that it does not become very expensive to sue, or vice versa, so that when money is not enough, it does not even dare to go to court for economic reasons. That this is also a matter of legal security for such a poor person at the same time. We have now done this sort of intercessor to this quite unnoticed when we have taken the county law forward, and then when this machine pedals empty here now for a short time, then we have such laws here, where we lose the individual's legal protection immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u120	Mr President! Now I am not quite sure when I talk about this, but I understand that there is a conciliation system which can settle minor disputes. Now, of course, there may be a situation of private road problems where it is no longer a minor dispute — I do not know how to define that level — but I understand that such a possibility of conciliation exists even in the case of disputes. This means that it is voluntary for both of us and that consent must be given from both sides to take this matter through conciliation. In other words, I would also urge that we examine the introduction of this possibility if this situation were to arise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u121	Mr President! Maybe I just told you a little bad about that situation, but here's the real thing going on. This law includes the removal of these Conciliation Boards. They will be lost to us as a whole in those municipalities. There will no longer be a conciliation commission in the municipalities or an official who will start resolving these disputes. We have this existing private road law, which says that these disputes will be settled by the court, and then this package will be open. It has been too busy, in a way, to do this, when we thought that the county laws were going to be put into effect at a good pace, but when this machine really did go empty for a while there, there probably was no solid ground on the soles of the feet there when the law was passed. These things are now standing here in Parliament, but this law is only moving forward, and that is when this individual's legal security issue is lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u122	Madam President! Representative Parviainen for having such a mediation body. We have reconciliation offices in every province at national level, which are involved in these mediations, and THL is in charge of this mediation apparatus, which usually has some thirty or so voluntary mediators under the guidance of perhaps four or five permanent persons who settle these disputes, but when I asked this question, they usually deal with criminal matters and in that sense there was no familiar area. I asked the committee to ask for an opinion on conciliation, precisely from the THL, because they would have the resources and the skills to take up road disputes in their own work. Then, of course, the second element is that there is also mediation in district courts, which means that the district courts can settle matters on request. But the question here, in a way, is that if you want to activate your fights, you have to make it a district court... Many times the police come to the scene when a dispute has become such, and a crime is reported on the disproportionate activity of a neighbor, and it goes to the District Court. As Mrs Semi pointed out, now we do not have such a natural conciliation body when we do not yet have a regional government or legislation relating to it, and we are now going to remain in the intermediate stage. Then I hope we don't have to do plier births.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-19-ps-69.u123	Mr President! Finally, if we lose the very institution that has done this, we will have such an opportunity just through these conciliation offices that we will also be able to settle disputes there, not just in criminal matters. So I understand that this interim period has the opportunity to deal with this issue if there is a mutual will, because this conciliation pattern is voluntary.
