ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u2	Let's go in group order. The Social Democratic Parliament, Mr Lindtman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u3	Mr President! Last week, Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, here in Parliament in the State Hall, assured us that the Ministry of Finance's savings calculations on social welfare reform will keep their mark-ups and the promised savings will come true. A few days later, the vote in the bell had changed completely. Last Saturday, Minister Orpo told Yle's First Saami that the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party had no reason to support the social welfare reform if the objectives set for it by the Coalition Party were not fulfilled. So it was first assured that the social welfare reform will come and the objectives will be fulfilled, and a few days later it was announced that the parliamentary group will assess whether this will happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u7	I would ask those representatives who now want to ask further questions on this issue to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u8	Madam President! That answer did not clarify the matter much now. This is clearly more than just tone differences, and the blind Reetta can see it. Talks changed in a few days last week. And yet in March, you assured us that you wanted to make it absolutely clear that the coalition was committed to this reform and that there were no marginal conditions or corner bolts. You say that you will assess whether the objectives you set will be fulfilled. And Prime Minister Sipilä has stated on several occasions — most recently on Sunday — that, for example, the amendments of the Constitutional Committee will be made: ‘Then we will have to do the corresponding articles of the Act’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u17	Mr President! Mr Orpo, when you said that these economic objectives will be fulfilled in this reform, we all hope that these savings will be found. The Parliamentary Audit Committee finalised its own opinion today. [ Arbitrators from the Group of the European People's Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u18	First of all, this economic exercise and the budgetary procedure: it is an absolutely essential part of this, which ultimately leads us in the direction of keeping these expenditure under control over a ten-year period. The fact is, however, that implementation has an enormous impact on how these economic objectives can be achieved. We already have very good experiences, messages from the regions where implementation is done, that when there are stronger organisers and this systemic change is pushed in, where strong organizers in the provinces are forced to take technological development into account, the opportunities it brings, build these functional care chains and think in a whole new way of doing this — 200 to 18 organisers — then the potential is there, but ultimately it will be resolved in implementation. None of us can yet say with certainty what the euro will be in 10 years' time, but this proposal
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u19	Mr President! Article 3 of the Constitution defines a threefold division of power. It ensures that the Government is in charge of the government and that Parliament is independent in the adoption of laws. It is therefore a very serious matter when this division of responsibilities is put at risk, as it was last week. As such, the draft opinion of the Constitutional Committee was made available to the Government immediately on Tuesday 22. the day of May, and two days later the draft was also submitted to the Evening Sanomat. It is serious that the government made available a draft opinion in order to plan the way in which the legislative proposals would be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u20	The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u21	Mr President! That leak issue is extremely serious when we, too, are here in Question Time to answer questions about the leaked drafts which we do not have ourselves. I do not have that nature at my disposal, I have not read a word about it, and Minister Orpo next door whispers that he does not have one either. This is a very serious accusation made by a representative from that bench. [Department:Damn, ghastly! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u23	The parliamentary group of the Left Alliance also had a question on this subject. Congressman Andersson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u24	Mr President! Thank you to the Prime Minister for this statement. From the point of view of Parliament, it is extremely important that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should be given the necessary work to deal with this extensive reform. However, the earlier statement by the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, was interesting when he said that if the big objectives of coordinating the service chains and cost savings of EUR 3 billion were not met, then the criteria for this reform would be lost. Within this house it has been clear for weeks that this model is precisely not going to achieve these key objectives. The market economyisation of services promoted by the Coalition Party is incompatible with the coordination and integration of service chains, and it also increases costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u27	Mr President! Once again, I completely disagree with you. I completely disagree with you as to whether this will allow us to achieve these important objectives. The government will assume that, once we have given this whole as a proposal to Parliament, it will achieve these objectives. Now it is Parliament's turn, and I hope this goes smoothly through here. And what you are saying about private business or the models of the coalition, in my view, is not in any way true. Freedom of choice — bringing a private and public producer equally to all Finnish people, regardless of the thickness of the wallet and ensuring that a doctor gets there when you have to get there, which is not going to happen today — is an excellent and wonderful thing, and I think it should be carried through. And it will certainly evolve and be that Finns will all thank us for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u28	Madam President! Mr Orpo, you have said publicly that if the conditions imposed by the Convention on the reform of the Convention are not fulfilled, the party will review this reform and its whole. And it is precisely this system of freedom of choice, which has been made quite clear in the public domain, that is to say the market economyisation of services, despite the fact that it contradicts the objectives of the reform. This has been expressed quite clearly in the opinion of the Committee on Finance on this whole, and today also in the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Audit, which clearly identifies the operational and financial risks associated with this model. Is it really the case, Mr Orpo, that the coalition is prepared to overthrow this reform of social security?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u29	Mr President! First of all, I think it would be right not to put words in my mouth. I have never said that the whole of this model is about freedom of choice, but it is about the whole: the reform of social and health services as a whole and the provision of good services to people in the 20th century and the sustainability of the economic frame. This whole thing is what counts. Freedom of choice is one part, one part, this great whole, and that is crucial. What is now being done in this Parliament is important work. We need to give the Constitutional Committee some peace. The changes required by the Constitutional Committee will then be evaluated and carried out by Parliament. But in the same way that the Left Alliance has in its time wondered whether the government work still meets your objectives, this kind of reflection is always being made in each party. That's pretty obvious too, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u30	Madam President! Two weeks ago, Mr Orpo, you said that I misunderstood the fact that I understood that the social reform, the regional reform and this market economy, the freedom of choice, are aimed at making savings, including this freedom of choice. You said it would even pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u35	Mr President! Thank you for the important question in itself. What do I mean when I say that freedom of choice can cost money in the early stages?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u38	The Blue Parliamentary Group also had a question related to social welfare reform. Congressman Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u39	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee must be given the right to work, and that is done. I think it is tactless, including stylistic, to make accusations and then say that I do not blame anyone. Well, blame me, but then blame me honestly. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u42	Mr President! As has been said here for the last week, when this debate here has not progressed in the way we previously thought, it is quite clear that the elections will not be held there at the end of October. We agree on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u45	Mr President! Unfortunately, with this irresponsible freedom of choice at the latest, this war is beginning to give way to taste. The main issues of this social and regional reform are, in fact, funding, because some of the regions feel that the funding model now being presented is not balanced for all regions. Now that the government has come to the sense that it has stated that these elections must be postponed, at what point have we thought about starting to reflect on this right of taxation in the provinces? It has been said from many quarters that this might work at a time when the provinces would have this right to tax. Would this not be the right place to think about this question too?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u46	Mr President! Firstly, with regard to the financing of the provinces, I would like to say straight away that there is the regional funding law, which lays down the criteria for how funding is to be determined, and then a rather multi-generational mechanism for the fact that if there is a problem with funding in one of the regions, then aid can be found. Then we too, together with the provinces in the government, have also recognised during this winter and spring that these costs of change will bring a burden to the provinces, even to a large extent, and that means that we must also be prepared for this on the part of the government. But then this matter of taxation law was dealt with within the government as early as 2016 and it was found that at least at this early stage this element of taxation will not be taken into account but will be investigated. Personally, I consider this line to be sensible. When you think about how large the whole is and how many of these economic elements are here, at least at this early stage the provinces do not have the right to tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u47	Mr President! I drew my attention to the fact that the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, spoke of a strong organizer. But, in fact, the only strong thing is that regional funding cutter. If you are giving statutory tasks to the provinces, you must also provide work equipment to enable them to be organised. What happens to regions in a situation where the market model increases costs, ageing increases costs, rising demand for services increases costs, the change in the system increases costs and, at the same time, the funding of the regions is reduced? What is left for the provinces to do at that point? There are no options other than to increase customer fees, limit services. What happens if the funding stops in October? After all, the provinces cannot put a note on the hatch and say to the people: come and get services again in January. It is a question of constitutional tasks and must be given the opportunity to carry them out. What will be done in this situation, Minister of Finance Orpo?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u48	And Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u49	Mr President! I would like to reiterate here that the provinces themselves have the tools to deal with the fact that the financial team is in good shape and does not go to cutting customer charges. [Murder ] and not to cut off services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u52	Mr President! Indeed, the Parliamentary Audit Committee gave its opinion today, I think that was the first unanimous opinion. In Parliament, we see that these control issues are well on track in the legislation. But then, of course, we say that there are challenges in controlling costs, in implementing freedom of choice,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u55	Mr President! I think that the Committee on Audit has realised this very well, and it has stated in its unanimous opinion that the reform must now be pursued with determination.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u58	Värderade fru talman! Frågan om finansieringen i vårdreformen är absolut central, och det vi undrar i svenska folkpartiet och i svenska riksdagsgrupen är om regeringen överhuvudtaget läser riksdagens egna utlåtanden. Till exempel innehåller finansutskottets utlåtande mycket kritisk text om huruvida det alls är öjligt att nå de korstnadsinbesparingarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u59	Mr President! I have not yet had time to read the opinion of the Audit Committee, but I have read the opinion of the Finance Committee and read it very carefully. And I am always interested in assessments that have assessed both good and bad and have assessed these risks in a variety of ways. But then I would like to say that this regional funding law has not been born in any vacuum. All in all, 21 different impact assessments of this financial law have been carried out before it entered this house. I don't think we should be able to underestimate that either. Then maybe in this big picture. We should remember, however, that there are different assessments and opportunities as to whether we should try to reduce and mitigate these costs. International bodies — the OECD, the IMF, the European Union, the Commission and many others — say that Finland must be able to provide citizens with services, equal services, but that we must also be able to reduce this increase in costs. And that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u60	Madam President! The reform of social welfare and health care is carried out to ensure that every Finn receives services produced with tax resources. The Coalition Party and all the government parties have certainly committed themselves to taking this bill forward in Parliament in such a way that these objectives can be achieved. One of the key objectives is that every Finn should be able to access basic services in good time. The OECD has often pointed out that access to basic services depends on the size of the purse. [Eva Biaudet’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u63	Mr President! Indeed, as the representative said, the government's proposal on freedom of choice also contains articles on pilots and criteria on how the provinces can achieve them. Those decisions, to which the representative refers, for example with just a significant amount of money for Uusimaa, are, of course, conditional upon the entry into force and adoption of the law. But right after that, the provinces will be able to pilot. In the first phase, decisions have been taken on ten provinces, and the government is committed to the fact that all provinces will be able to take part in this at the latest from the beginning of next year, following the adoption of the law here first. And it is also part of the phasing-in and controlled entry into force of this reform that the various regions test and experiment before the actual start of the provinces — such as social centres, personal budgeting and customer vouchers, i.e. all the tools for freedom of choice, including:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u64	Madam President! Of course, the most important thing for citizens is access to treatment and access to services. However, the savings of EUR 3 billion means that the regions have a cost-cutting system for universal financing and calculations have been made as to what this means for each province itself. There is indeed a risk that services will have to be reduced or severely centralised so that this increase in costs can be curbed. Just as Minister Vehviläinen said earlier, these calculations have been made. The calculations for 2017 are very different from those for 2019, and the regional reform website states that there may be very large seasonal variation for small regions, i.e. very large seasonal variation. So this is the government's own assessment. The population structure, morbidity and socio-economic factors are behind the calculations there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u65	Mr President! It is indeed the case, as the representative said, that they are still evaluations at this stage and have been carried out in the 16th and 17th chapters. These last updated calculations per province, which were made in May, continue to be based on budget surveys on municipal spending on social welfare and health care. I can say that there are a lot of uncertainties there, which is why I say to all responsible politicians and also to the decision-makers in the provinces that they are not yet the final figures. And then I would like to say — when it is just about to end a large round of provinces under the leadership of Päivi Nergi on how this financial adequacy has been assessed — that it has indeed identified those risks, a few different risks per region, and we are now able to see how these costs of change may come from them. I agree with you that universal funding alone cannot cover:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u66	Mr President! In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, 3850 pages are being discussed in the first wave of this government's proposals. Mr Vehviläinen, you have already suspected that Parliament is lagging behind in its timetables and that there are delays here. I feel very bad about this machine all the time. There is a great deal of work to be done here to ensure that this whole entity is properly dealt with. Almost all the committees involved in this discussion of government proposals have now delivered their opinions — we are no longer waiting for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — so I think that this process, along with these public statements, already shows that Parliament has quite a lot of work to do here, because it seems that this proposal
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u67	Mr President! You asked the same question last week. I note that the government will give Parliament peace of work. And for my part, I have also been responsible for the fact that the work of the committee that you chair is being supported by experts from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in every possible way. I am well aware that there are several meetings on which you have made requests for several memos, and the department of ministries will provide all possible support for the work you are doing. On the other hand, it is good to remember that the vast majority of these laws, the vast bundle you are working on, have already been working on in Parliament and have been able to deal with them for more than a year and the Freedom of Choice Act was submitted to you on 8 March from the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u68	Mr President! I would like to thank you for this opportunity to speak again. I'm very quick. I would like to say that you, Minister Saarikko, have been very supportive of the work of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, for which you have been acknowledged. My question now is: is the government aware that, as a whole, with seven reports to be submitted and two opinions in this first wave, we have still this Monday, by letter from the Minister of Government, marked the new draft articles of the Act on Producers to the committee for information? However, according to the original timetable, Minister Vehviläinen was already calling for solutions to this package next week, so I would say that it would be important now to give the House some time to work on the timetables. We have received these articles on a single law this week and we have conducted consultations on it and we will continue to do this important work. It is largely a question of how businesses and the public sector are put on the same line, what conditions are offered, and that is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u69	And who's answering?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u70	Mr President! Mr Kiuru, as chairman of the committee, you refer to the law on service providers. This law has long been needed and hoped for in Finland, and it clarifies the regulation of private and public service providers already in its present state. However, since there are direct links and interfaces with freedom of choice legislation in that way, it is quite true that it is important to deal with them at the same time. However, I have already asked the committee about six months ago whether you could have started that discussion earlier. You made a decision to do so in this context, and I think it is justified. [KristaKiuru’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u71	Then let's go to at least one important thing. Question by the Finnish People's Parliament Group, representative Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u72	Mr President! Many Finns need a car when they go to work or hobbies and other necessary expenses. In Finland, however, fuel is far too expensive, whether it is a petrol or a diesel car. In a diesel car, especially when you still pay the operating tax and still diesel is expensive. And fuel prices as soon as they go up. In fact, the fuel price in the United States is currently EUR 0.7 per litre. In Finland, the price of petrol is 1.6 euros per litre, i.e. more than double the price. And this is because there is an absurdly high level of fuel taxation in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u75	Mr President! First of all, it is quite true that there is another time when fuel prices have risen and are high. Finland has relatively the same level of fuel taxation as the average in Europe. Of course, we are more tax-payers, but we also have one explanation that has already been followed for many governments in Finland: we wanted to shift that tax focus to, among other things, the taxation of coal and the taxation of emissions. That is why the fuel tax has been one of the ones that has been chosen as the target from which funds will be made available to run the welfare society. Personally, I don't remember what you're referring to, about this $80 oil price, but we need to find out. At the moment, neither fuel tax increases nor reductions are planned by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u76	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u77	Mr President! Quickly, then, the government’s promise and decision has been forgotten. You also talked about the need to take account of the emissions side, and I would ask for a little sense of proportionality here, because in the United States, where the tax is indeed very low, there are over 200 million cars. China has over 300 million cars. Those Finnish cars in this global emission package may not be the ones that solve them. In the alternative budget, as you know, the Finns have put forward better savings than this taxation, because taxation can always be done. There is wind power subsidies, money to be poured into the EU and the cost of immigration, and so much. Now, consider how this high tax burden weakens the purchasing power of people with low and middle incomes. The purchasing power that would otherwise go directly to other consumption. The same is true of competition. This is a competitiveness issue, since one cent of the increase in fuel tax affects freight transport by 10 million. With a 2-cent bill, we could support 20 million Finnish competitiveness. Have you taken into account this purchasing power and the competitiveness aspect when you say that you do not want to change that tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u78	Mr President! First of all, I do not admire the United States in any way or China in climate policy, and I don't envy their cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u83	Mr President! Indeed, the purchasing power of households is influenced by all the product purchased from the store: food, clothing, everything we need on a weekday. Another issue affected by the price of fuel is our competitiveness in the export market, and employment will thus be improved. One option to reduce logistics costs and influence both household purchasing power and competitiveness is professional diesel. Professional diesel is being investigated, I know that, but it is a relatively challenging package in this world of biofuels and under this global pressure, which is why this price increase is also due to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u84	Mr President! We have discussed the development of commercial diesel and finding solutions on several occasions with Mr Jalose. [Department:Not seeming! ] This is precisely an attempt to assess the various impacts, and it is very important to us that we commit ourselves to the climate objectives that we have agreed together. In this context, we will promote the use of biogas and biofuels, renewable fuels, and we will also seek solutions for how to find cost-effective solutions in professional transport. In addition to this, it has also been important to promote the spread of electronic transport, and we are also looking for opportunities for everyone to participate in the way in which transport can effectively and also save the climate in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u85	One more supplementary question, Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u86	Mr President! Now that the economy is doing well, it is all the more important for us that people get to their jobs and that this job mobility is not too expensive. This also has a very significant impact on regional policy, because jobs are increasingly concentrated in large centres, so it is important that smaller cities and rural areas can also work in larger cities. It will then be possible to develop this country in a more balanced way. At the moment, we have a system whereby EUR 750's own contribution can be reduced by EUR 7000 for commuting. I would like to ask, because the Greens in particular have been constantly working on this reduction in commuting: surely the government will ensure that Finns can continue to work at a reasonable cost even further away from work and thus continue to increase the employment rate?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u87	Mr President! The government will stick to this, that is, we want to support commuting, and this is particularly important, as Mr Satonen asked, in less populated Finland. This has been highlighted now when we have a difficult phenomenon in which we have tens of thousands of job vacancies and, at the same time, 250,000 unemployed. The Government has very much thought about how to solve the problem of confrontation, and these mobility issues are yet another important solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u88	Three parliamentary groups have asked a question on the same subject, and let us take them here in a row. First of all, the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u89	Mr President! Secretary of State Soin's judgment has been seriously compromised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u96	I think it is right and fair for Minister Soini to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u97	Madam President! I am actually glad that this is being raised here so that we can talk about what is a misunderstanding and what is the right idea. I've been leading politics for 30 years. I've never been ashamed of my convictions for life, and I'm not doing it today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u104	Minister Soini, there will be more questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u105	Swedish Parliament Group, represented by Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u106	Irade the Talman! Jag försöker hålla mig valdigt lugn. Finlands främsta brand är jämställdheten mellan kvinnor och män. Därför ställer jag min fråga till regeringsledningen. Finland har redan länge internationalellt och i sitt utvecklingssamarbete palmat för kvinnors rattigheter och kvinnors raatt till sin sexualhälsa, självbestämmmanderätt och familjeplanering. Därför är det synnerligen märkligt att ministern som leder Finlands utrikespolitik talar med beklagande ton om Irelands folkröstning om abortion, och dessutom i Canada deltar i en kvällsandakt mot abortion. Vi är igen i en location där Finland har en officiell ståndpunkt, men ministern som representerar Finland för fram helt motsata åsikter. Statsminister Sipilä, hur ser ni på utrikesministerns uttalande, hur påverkar det Finlands linjedragningar? Största risken för en quinnas liv i de fattigaste delarna av världen är att Hon föder barn som mindårig.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u107	Madam President! The government has not changed its policy and does not intend to change the legislation on abortion. This has not even been discussed within the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u112	And the Christian Democratic Parliament, you also had this same question. Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u113	Mr President! In this public Twitter debate of ministers, Minister Virolainen commented that abortion rights are not a matter of opinion, but a human rights issue. Abortion is indeed a matter of human rights, both for the child and for the mother, but it is also a matter of deep conviction and world view, and therefore indeed an issue of opinion. I believe that this comment from Minister Estonia is also cold for doctors and nurses for whom abortion is not only about opinion but also about the conviction to protect life. I myself am one of those who think that a person’s life begins with conception and also a child in the womb has human rights in his own life. Now that the ministers have had this public debate on Twitter, I ask: what is the Government's position on the right of the members of the Government, health care staff and other citizens to express their opinion and convictions in this regard as well? That is what I would ask the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u114	Mr President! I will answer a question that was addressed, if I understood it correctly, strongly our national health system and the right to abortion: The law is laid down in Finland in the turn of the 60s to 70s. We have a long tradition at national level of the right to abortion granted to women by law. But in international comparison, Finnish legislation is relatively strict in terms of who and where and at which stage it is possible to have an abortion. The different issue — which is the responsibility minister of Estonia in terms of development policy — is Finland's long line in promoting reproductive and sexual health. But in terms of the WHO as an international health organisation — against these issues — the government is very committed to our health policy to support international legal issues in the field of sexual and reproductive health and thus the role of women.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u115	Let us take a few supplementary questions. I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u116	Mr President! This is not a question of whether the citizen is entitled to express his or her opinion. As a citizen, ministers also have the right to express their opinion, but it is necessary to be particularly precise if this opinion deviates from the official Finnish policy. And when you have a foreign minister and represent Finland abroad, then on a business trip — just like on the same trip, that is, on a mission, on a journey made with taxpayers' money — [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u117	Mr President! When a minister goes on a mission, for example for a week, he does all the things he does.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u122	Mr President! Finland’s foreign and development policy is based on human rights. Our human rights policy is central to the promotion of women's and girls' rights, including sexual rights, worldwide. It is incomprehensible that the Finnish Foreign Minister speaks against Finland's official foreign policy line. The Secretary of State doesn't just represent himself. It is also incomprehensible that the Foreign Minister sees the right to oppose the sovereignty and health of women in the world. Mr President! The Minister for Development, Estonia, has shown a commendable commitment to women's rights, as has his predecessor Mr Mykkänen and Mr Toivakka. Although women's rights and the promotion of sexual and reproductive health rights are at the heart of Finland's external relations and development cooperation, development funding aimed at this priority has been cut, which has unfortunately contradicted words and actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u123	Mr President! The government strongly defends, as well as the Minister, the 1325 agenda, which protects women, gives women opportunities, encourages them in society, for example, for mediation, small loans, many things that improve their interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u126	And one more supplementary question, Mr Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u127	Mr President! The Prime Minister said just now that we must be extremely careful to appear as a private individual if we want to express our own views. But we still did not get a proper answer to your view of Minister Soin's activities, what happened in Canada a few weeks ago. The Minister of Foreign Affairs represents Finland. He was abroad with tax money and on a trip of this kind took part in this demonstration. This was on Twitter and also on the blog. Mr Sipilä, what is your view? And as Mr Niinistö well asked, what are the policy guidelines for ministers in this type of situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u129	Minister Soini requests the floor. — Here you go, Minister Soini.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u130	Mr President! It is very good that Mr Yanar asked. He was talking about a demonstration. The demonstration there was the next day. It was the demonstration with thousands and thousands of people. What I was involved in was an evening vigil that was the night before. You might want to be careful about these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u131	Madam President! In short, the answer to that question: we had a brief discussion in the government today that we must be extremely careful that, when missions are also entitled to participate in private events, these events are genuinely private and not ministerial. That is what we had a debate on, and we all agree that this should be done and done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u132	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u133	Madam President! Applying for and getting to secondary education is one of the first steps towards fulfilling the dreams of the future for many. Everyone must have a genuine opportunity to find and choose a suitable and meaningful field of education, regardless of the background or the thickness of the wallet. Although the education itself is free of charge, the cost of means of learning and the cost of qualifications can, however, become impossible for many today. Anyone who wants to go to vocational education or upper secondary school should not have to wonder whether he can afford to study the field or degree he wants. Courses in comprehensive school and secondary school are free of charge, but students in upper secondary schools and vocational institutions are obliged to obtain the necessary textbooks, equipment and supplies for their studies and to pay the fees. The educational material supplement proposed by the government is a step in the right direction, but unfortunately it is insufficient in size and does not cover all the purchases necessary for studies. After-school education is currently not accessible to all young people on an equal footing, although Finnish legislation requires it. Basic training alone, free of charge, does not guarantee employment either. The current labour market, not to mention the future labour market, requires at least a secondary degree, often more. The Group of the Greens has also called for an extension of compulsory education, in which case secondary education should be genuinely free of charge. The costs of upper secondary school and vocational education are considerable. For example, the total cost of completing upper secondary school is easily higher than 2500 euros for young people, and the cost of some vocational qualifications may vary depending on the sector and the educational institution to up to several thousand euros. It is often also difficult to anticipate costs and there may not be enough clear information about them. In fact, one out of every four dropout students has had a financial impact on the completion of their studies. This puts young people in an unequal position and puts pressure on the livelihoods of families with low incomes in particular. For some families, the cost is an insurmountable obstacle. Of Finnish young people, Mr President, 15 per cent have not completed a secondary degree by the age of 25. Nearly half of young people without a qualification and a place of education have had to drop out or give up their studies because of a lack of money. The link between the lack of money and school drop-out is therefore a worrying observation in terms of equality. Discontinuation of studies exposes other problems in life. However, equal education, accessible to all, is the great success story of this country, which has made a poor and remote country a successful Nordic society. In recent years, however, we have strayed from this path. It is not yet enough to correct the fact that the government has hit students at a record rate this season. For example, huge cuts in vocational education and training must be reversed in one way or another, and the gnawing of the income of students must be stopped. We Greens have also proposed a level increase in student support for everyone, including the second stage. Mr President! The success of this country rests on education. There is no other way than to secure the highest quality education in the world. A truly free course of education from early childhood education to higher education enables everyone to study according to their abilities and interest, and increases equality between families. Lack of money must not affect the fact that studies are not completed. This citizens' initiative has now raised the voice of young people and students, and it is up to us to make responsible decisions. I therefore hope that we will tackle this challenge together and make secondary education in this country genuinely free of charge.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u134	Madam President! Ministers, colleagues and others present! Hanna Markkula-Kivis, Secretary General of the Children’s Association, said: ‘All young people are expected to have equal opportunities at secondary level. “ I am sure that everyone will agree with this statement. Unfortunately, this is not the case for everyone at the moment. According to the Save the Children's Association's estimates, more than 12 per cent of young people and young families are in difficulty with secondary costs. This is partly illustrated or also opened up by the fact that some of the upper secondary school students already have student loans and more than one in ten of them. A few years ago, in 2015, the National Board of Education commissioned a study that revealed the fact that about one fifth of students reported that money had contributed to the serious decision that they had not finished their studies. However, the cost has rarely been the only reason for the suspension decision, but for some 300 young people the lack of money affected the suspension quite or very much. In the youth barometer, half of those excluded from education also said that money or lack of money was the cause. It is estimated that a free second rate would cost the State approximately EUR 100 million. In fact, the cost would certainly be somewhat higher, as completely free secondary education should also include transportation to educational institutions and in situations where it is not possible to travel from one's own home to an educational institution on a daily basis, including housing. In fact, quite a few debates, these transports, the so-called school transports, will be of little attention and will entail significant additional costs for many students, both high school students and, above all, vocational education students. The recycling of materials is also an issue that must be highlighted as studies for upper secondary school students cost around 2500 euros, and even in vocational education, according to the Finnish National Board of Education estimates, several hundred euros, and this often results in different materials related to this study, including tools or, for example, different clothing and other items related to studying on the restaurant side. That is why it is important that we ensure that no young people's school is caught for money either on the vocational education and training side. Mr President! I therefore very much welcome the fact that this citizens' initiative has now been brought to Parliament. It opens up this worrying debate in an important way and makes it public so that in the future no secondary education will be caught up in money. I would therefore like to thank Minister Terho and Minister Grahn-Laasonen for taking up this challenge in an exemplary way. We all know in this Chamber that there is not as much money as we would like at the moment for many important tasks, but even in this situation, Minister Terho has put forward a proposal for a material increase in student aid, which will be able to increase the financial support for young people who face the greatest challenges of being able to finance their own upper secondary school or vocational education studies by around EUR 50 per month. [Requests for reply] But I was also pleased that in November 2017, all parties, representatives of all parties, stated in the Alliance panel that the goal must be that we have genuinely free secondary education. I do not think that extending compulsory education is the answer. I am not in favour of a compulsory secondary school obligation, but I am in favour of us, above all, moving on that path through support and such personal learning paths.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u135	Let us take a few speeches here and then go to the debate. — Mr Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u136	Mr President! Thank you for the floor. I will not speak for long. — Equality of opportunity is the cornerstone of Finland’s education policy. Everyone must have the opportunity to develop themselves regardless of their family background and socio-economic status. It is simply wrong if the school path is interrupted for economic reasons. At the heart of our education policy is the goal that everyone should complete at least a secondary degree. The success of a small country is in quality education and the strengthening of skills. These objectives must be kept constantly in mind when discussing education policy. The citizens' initiative now under discussion requires that Parliament prepare a thorough study and take steps to abolish the fees for secondary studies. Mr President! It should be borne in mind that education is already free of charge from primary to higher education. Under the leadership of Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen, two studies have already been carried out to identify the costs for students and measures to address them. The study showed that the average cost of students studying vocational qualifications is hundreds of euros, although the costs vary considerably from one degree to another. For upper secondary school students, the cost could be up to EUR 2500. It goes without saying that this trend is not desirable. The thickness of the flower cannot determine anyone's school path. Mr President! However, the action has already been taken. The Government has estimated the cost impact of free materials, which, according to rough estimates, would be around EUR 100 million per year. In connection with the spending limits committee, the Government already decided to introduce a material supplement. The educational material supplement will enter into force in August 2019. It is estimated that some 40,000 students would receive educational material supplementation. In addition, the study grant period for upper secondary school students will be extended by one month. Mr President! In addition to the measures already decided by the government, the introduction of new specific measures must also be examined. Electronic materials are already commonplace and their use has already reduced material costs. The creation of national platforms would also be a good way to reduce the cost of materials. Good ways of reducing costs, such as libraries, have already been found at local level. These means should be extended. Everyone has the right to train and develop themselves. That is the principle that we will continue to uphold.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u137	Madam President! A citizens' initiative is being discussed Free secondary education for all. It has collected the signature of over 53,000 citizens. The initiative proposes that the necessary measures and legislative reforms be taken to eliminate the payment of upper secondary and vocational studies. The initiative is an important proposal to improve equality. It is estimated that the cost of free upper secondary education would be less than EUR 100 million. It is an important investment in the well-being of young people and prevents unemployment and exclusion. It has been studied that the lack of secondary education significantly increases the risk of exclusion, but, for example, a high-school youth is in a better position, as statistics show, to be protected from exclusion. Unreasonable government cuts from education have increased inequality between young children and adults. In particular, a large cut of EUR 190 million has been made in vocational education and training, which has weakened young people's access to education. It's unbearable, because 100,000 under 30-year-olds depend only on primary school. The employment rate of people on the comprehensive school basis is only 40%. After comprehensive school, education is not equally accessible to all young people, although Finnish legislation requires it. Free basic education alone no longer guarantees employment; the current labour market requires at least a secondary degree. The necessary costs for upper secondary school studies are EUR 2500 on average, and the costs of some vocational qualifications, depending on the sector and the educational institution, can rise to up to several thousand euros. This puts pressure on the livelihoods of deprived families. As many as 15 per cent of Finnish young people have not completed upper secondary education by the age of 25. According to the youth barometer, as many as one quarter of those who dropped out of upper secondary education indicate that the lack of money has contributed to the fact that they have not completed their studies. This initiative supports the UN objectives, the objectives of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. And I think it is valuable that the citizens' initiative takes account of the situation of children with disabilities. The initiative states: ‘It will be noted that the disabled and other pupils who need special support have the right to have access, free This right must also apply to the second stage.” Mr President! There are other things that improve equality in education. I am also in favour of extending compulsory education, in which case the second level would be free of charge. Costs arise not only from school but also from living and living. The Green Group has therefore also proposed a level increase in the level of study aid to the second level. I hope that Parliament will support this citizens' initiative and will address issues of equality in education extensively. Skilled, happy people are the strength of a small country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u138	Let us take one more real speech, Mr Andersson. Then we go to the debattery, and Mr Torsti will have the first debattling.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u139	Mr President! Finland is used to boast of our education system and especially its equality. As has been heard today, many speeches and speeches in Parliament repeat the same messages about how we have a high-quality public education that guarantees everyone the opportunity to learn what they want, regardless of their background. This is, in a way, true, but the reality is not quite as rosy as it is. In comprehensive school, the student’s home background has a greater impact on learning outcomes than before, and higher education is also more likely to accumulate among students whose parents also have a higher education degree. The citizens' initiative now under discussion is a clear statement from young students to remedy one of the shortcomings and inequalities in the education system. In a welfare state that appreciates education in Finland, it cannot be allowed that any young person's educational path should be cut right after primary school to too high study costs and a lack of money. In the latest youth barometer, 17 per cent of respondents reported that they had to reduce their study options due to lack of money. Of those who did not have a post-basic level degree, ‘yes’ answered42percent of this question. The lack of money is therefore a problem, especially for young people who are at risk of dropping out of their studies at a secondary level. It is also possible to conclude from the studies carried out that the lack of money is particularly affecting those who have chosen vocational education and training. It is not only the cost of learning material, but the vocational students also become independent in the past, because they are more often forced to move from their childhood home to secondary school. The risk of poverty increases in young people who move from home. The report from the Ombudsman to Parliament refers to the underachievement of the welfare state. I believe that the underachievement of the welfare state is precisely the fact that Finnish young people have to take care of or even drop out of their studies at a secondary level because of their own or their own family's lack of resources. Therefore, the principle of this citizens' initiative cannot be overemphasized. Finnish society must be able to promise every young person a genuine opportunity to complete a secondary degree. It is also a joint task and duty of our MPs for every young person in Finland. The Finnish education system must also be able to provide every young person with the necessary support and guidance to avoid dropping out of education at a secondary level. On the basis of what has been said today, the problem of second-degree payment seems to be something of an awareness and concern of all parties. The Board of Directors is proposing a study material supplement of EUR 46.8 for student support. Students under 20 years of age in upper secondary school, whose parents' total annual income is less than EUR 40950, would be eligible. The problem with this solution is that it does not take into account how the cost of study materials is amortised during the training path. It also limits, for example, the majority of students living alone outside the benefit and does not pay sufficient attention to families with many children in secondary education at the same time. The problem with such Band-Aid solutions is also that they do not take into account the broader and very important vision of education policy that this citizens' initiative also includes. It is the idea of education as a universal opportunity for all young people. This includes the essential idea that free of charge, like basic education, must be guaranteed to all students regardless of their family background. I find it wonderful that the government consistently rejects the proposal to extend compulsory education. It would be a reform of education policy which would enable many of the problems related to secondary education to be solved. Firstly, this would be justified in terms of education and employment policy. The level of education of people is directly linked to the probability of people being employed and also to the years worked during life. The Finnish labour market no longer manages to rely solely on basic education. It is therefore justified that society invests in greater efforts to ensure every secondary degree. If compulsory education were to be extended to a secondary level, the necessary resources should also be monitored in order to ensure that the necessary resources are free of charge and that adequate guidance is ensured. In other words, at the second stage it would make the necessary resources less cyclically sensitive and vulnerable to the cuts made by the respective government. Thus, the extension of compulsory education would also make it possible to pay for education and make it compulsory to secure the resources for guidance, adequate study places and student care better than at present. At the same time, it would also be necessary to ensure the quality of vocational education and training by ensuring a sufficient number of local education. The reduction in the number already jeopardises the acquisition of skills and the ability to further study and is certainly also linked to the number and situation of those who have dropped out of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u140	At this stage, we will take the debatable phase, about 20 minutes, and it will be launched by Mr Torsti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u141	Mr President! In social democratic education policy, the second level of freedom is part of the thinking whereby children and young people must be given access to education that can succeed in society, be employed and be equipped for lifelong learning on a continuous basis. So we need a complete school path from a nearby school to a local school and then to a secondary school. At present, however, many upper secondary studies are interrupted by money, and it is likely that some young people will not even begin their upper secondary or vocational education because of paid materials. In January, we received the assessment of the country's leading economists, in which the second level was considered to be the most important need for reform in our education policy. I would therefore like to thank the organisations for this truly fundamental initiative, within which we are already able to assess the real costs of secondary education. I believe that good solutions can be found and, Mr President, I support this initiative. I see it as a step towards the extension of compulsory education, which the SDP has been pushing for years with the support of the Left Alliance and which, to our satisfaction, in recent months many parties seem to have come. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u142	Madam President! This debate is extremely important, and it is good that we are here. We in the centre too have set our own long-term goal of genuinely free second degree. A good starting point for it is this educational material supplement that has been implemented in the current government, for which I thank all those who have contributed. It is a very important start. As far as compulsory education is concerned, we call it the right to study, and in fact, in just these minutes, we have announced our own right to study, which also deals with compulsory education. It is so historic that it is certainly the first model, which is not a pure yes or no model, but seeks to combine the best of both, to tailor support to those who genuinely need it and to enable everyone to go to secondary education. We cannot afford to have thousands of young people every year, humanly or economically.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u143	Let us stay a minute, and as many as possible will be given the floor during the ministers. — — — — Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u144	Madam President! Everyone will certainly hope and support that secondary education will not be caught by any income or family background, which is why this initiative should be taken forward. It has been said that free secondary education would cost 100 million. I would like to ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen whether this assessment also includes school trips and housing for those who are unable to visit from their own home. And secondly, the cost of learning materials. They've grown significantly. They burden students, but also municipalities who acquire educational material, for example, for comprehensive school. I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Education has considered ways, for example, of using the material for longer periods of time or not to update the curricula so strictly. And how is the VAT discount on digital materials going? That too could partially interfere with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u145	Mr President! Over the last three decades, more than 600,000 jobs have been lost in Finland, for which primary education has been sufficient. The employment rate of those dependent on comprehensive school alone has fallen so that only 43 per cent of those on a mere primary school base are employed, and only about half of their working age are employed. It is indeed a major problem that we have a really huge number of people of working age at primary school alone, over 600,000, and from each age group about 10,000 young people will end in primary school. It is therefore absolutely essential that we ensure that everyone, every young person, has at least a secondary degree. I see that it is both a duty to the young and, in a way, a duty to the young. And so when this initiative is brought up, for many the suspension is due to these expensive study tools. Indeed, if we were to extend this compulsory education, it would also solve this problem in relation to these expensive means of learning, and then it would improve the employment of young people and soon pay for itself. Let us hope that this can be done soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u146	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. This is a very important issue and needs to be dealt with very carefully, and it is good that the ministers are here. The network of educational institutions is shrinking. It is no longer self-evident that 15 to 16-year-olds can no longer attend school from home. When the compulsory costs of upper secondary education are added together, the costs can rise to a very high level and many families can no longer afford this and there will be interruptions. When this school network falls, the 15 to 16-year-olds may not be ready to live away from home, there will be many other problems, and that interruption may also arise. I would like to ask the ministers how you feel about this. Should we now put the taps on for interruptions in small schools?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u147	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very much in favour of this citizens' initiative on the genuinely free second stage. In fact, one in four young people who dropped out of secondary school says that the dropout has been affected by a poor financial situation. This citizens' initiative combines many very important themes. Firstly, combating poverty and inequality in general, secondly, investing in education and, thirdly, improving the rights of children. Unfortunately, the educational material supplement proposed by the Government in the spending limits debate does not yet cover all the purchases necessary for studies, although it was a very important start in itself, because there are many other costs in the second stage in addition to upper secondary school books, such as school trips or, for example, the means of study needed in vocational schools. Nor is such monthly support well suited to a situation in which, as is well known, purchases focus on the beginning of semesters and periods. That's why I'd actually be interested to ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u148	Let me remind you that one minute will allow many to ask while the ministers are here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u149	President! We must hope that this citizens' initiative will eventually be realised. I do not believe that it will happen very soon, but I think it is important that we take these first steps in the direction that secondary education, whether it is a matter of general upper secondary education or vocational education, is in principle free of charge. You have to hold on to it. At the moment, it is better to take targeted measures, for which this supplement is a good opening, and to consider, for example, how to get more books for libraries in upper secondary school and vocational schools, how to recycle books and so on. But yes many schoolchildren, students at second grade also need
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u150	Madam President! The second level free of charge is a very important goal and certainly a state of will that we all support. But I must say that of course we also have the means to do so, and in some municipalities, for example, high school books are already available in digital form or can be borrowed from libraries. Even at this stage, this puts students in a position of inequality. Mr President! I would like to highlight my own personal experience here. At one time as a pretty poor young teenage mother, I went to high school and the man paid corporate debts, and when I left the social services to get a so-called loan for those high school books, they said there was nothing to do here to serve you. Fortunately, then, there was a relative from whom I could lend money to high school materials, because otherwise I would not have been able to go to high school. I am very grateful that someone was found who was able to support it. But what about the kids who don't have that person?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u151	Mr President! This is an excellent citizens' initiative. We must take it very seriously, and this is where the explanatory statement tells us these costs that arise in the context of upper secondary school and vocational education. But with the President we have a good friend, Martti Pajulammi, who was a school curator in Seinäjoki. He told me that a 16-year-old isn't mature enough to live alone in a college place. After all, in this secondary education, we have had a very large decline in the school network and now quite a few 16-year-olds have to live in a foreign town — Mrs Elomaa drew attention to this. How will the Minister of Education see this secondary school network in the future? Will it be reduced from this point of view so that more and more children will have to be in a foreign location?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u152	Madam President! Equality in education at all levels of education is very important, and it is a Finnish brand, hopefully in the future, so that access to education, accessibility, quality and highly trained teachers and staff ensure equal starting points and opportunities for all in Finland. The Central Parliamentary Group and the Central Party are an education party in the sense that we hope that society will ensure that everyone who completes comprehensive school has a secondary education place. It is not much promised, because we want every decision in comprehensive school to find a learning path at the second stage, either in upper secondary school or in vocational education. It is important to remember that the free second stage can and must be the future. I think it is important to hand out the fact that the educational material supplement
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u153	Mr President! Of course, the number of school drop-outs must be reduced and the level of secondary education guaranteed for all should be reduced. However, extending the compulsory education age is not the solution for us to catch up with young people, but we must be able to allocate those resources in the right way and target them to those young people who need them. And this material supplement is intended specifically for those who do not have wealth. Ultimately, discretionary income support for municipalities is also a means of receiving additional support. On this point, I would just ask whether there has been an analysis of the differences in practices in the municipalities in terms of this discretionary income.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u154	Madam President! The aim of this citizens' initiative is really important and I am sure that it is a goal which we are all sharing here in the Chamber. Equality of opportunity is exactly what we must be able to offer our children and young people in Finland. I welcome the fact that, at the moment, the government has taken up traffic in this area with an educational material supplement and also the fact that the study allowance period for upper secondary school education has been extended by one month. These are steps in the right direction and measures. In fact, if, as it were, we were to go through with this training free of charge, I think that many publishers and producers of teaching materials would smell a great business opportunity. I therefore believe that this chosen model of progress is a good one in this situation. And, of course, it is hoped that in the future it will be possible to ensure that those young people who need support in these material procurement and training will also receive it in full.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u155	Madam President! A weak financial situation is certainly often the reason why studies are interrupted. I would like to ask you, ministers: how can we support these young people too, that many young people want to go to work, that they would like to work on a ski holiday or on weekends, but often the problem is that they are not 18 years old? So making your own money is also very important to a young person and would help him to cope. How can we make studying cheaper — perhaps not so much free —? I have always wondered that when the edition of books is always to be introduced in the course of study, what is the reason why these editions are always changed so that, for example, the editions of the previous year are no longer available but always have to be purchased. This has been especially received in high school. You would now think that there are still works with a longer knowledge base and that there would not always be a need for new ones. On the use of e-learning materials, I would like to ask whether the benefits and disadvantages of e-learning have been studied.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u156	Mr President! We demars do not want to divide young people into different baptisms: those who are well - off and those who have to ask for help to go to the second stage — to go to the second degree. This initiative is enormously important and the world has changed enormously. When we got the primary school system — we eventually found consensus on it, even though there was opposition at the time — I hope that the same thing would happen here. There is scientific evidence of the benefits of extending the compulsory education age. According to the Economic Policy Review Council, raising the compulsory education age to 18 would significantly increase the share of upper secondary education graduates in the age group and would bring significant benefits to the employment and incomes and future of the persons concerned. This would also be reflected in a long-term improvement in the state of public finances. These are facts, the Economic Assessment Council has taken this view, and I believe that we need to take decisions on the basis of facts. And I very much hope that just as Mrs Zyskowicz has now moved on
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u157	Mr President! As I said in my own speech, we all share here the objective of achieving a secondary level for the entire age group. We know from its statistics, as Mr Guzenina said, that it has a significant impact on employment. I am sure we will all agree on this. Perhaps we have different views on what are the most effective means of achieving this goal. According to the latest youth barometer, as many as 17% of young people say that they have discontinued education leading to a degree at some point, and the main reason for this is the wrong sub-choice. I myself just last week visited a vocational school where teachers confirmed this message. Often, the lack of knowledge about areas already leaving comprehensive school and inadequate guidance at that stage will lead to an end to a wrong area where motivation is not enough or where many people may also have insufficient basic skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u158	I would like to draw your attention to this at 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u159	Madam President! Last week it was 50 years since this hall passed the law on elementary school. It was a law presented by Johannes Estonian, and as a civilised party in the city centre, its legacy is very important. This citizens' initiative is also very important. It has been possible to complete the second degree free of charge in Sweden for a long time now, and we know, in the light of the studies, how important it is that students also receive a degree after comprehensive school. I also remember quite well myself how difficult it was at the time for some of the textbooks to pay when there was a lot of expense. In the short term, it has been terribly important for the government to have received a material supplement. It is not a trivial matter that it will touch 40,000 students, and it is undoubtedly the first important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u160	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Save the Children's Association for the fact that this citizens' initiative has come here in Parliament and has received enough signatures. I hope that this citizens' initiative will be taken seriously and will receive a good, broad and comprehensive discussion in committee. The fact that the government has taken good steps so far is certainly to be welcomed, but that must not be the reason why this initiative is not being properly dealt with. We have 15% of 25-year-old citizens without a secondary degree. This is why initiatives of this kind are important social reforms, for which we must also be prepared to take decisions to make this a reality. School must not end in poverty for anyone, and it has inevitably been shown that these costs will come from digital devices as well as schoolbooks and tools and others,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u161	Mr President! The completion of secondary education is indeed very important, both in terms of working life capacity and in terms of further learning, but unfortunately the cost of learning materials has increased all the time, making it more difficult for children in the most deprived families to study. Unfortunately, if you are not able to study, the risk of exclusion will increase. We Finns want to invest in higher quality and more effective teaching that takes place as close to home as possible. Of course, it requires a well-functioning network of educational institutions for both upper secondary schools and vocational schools, to which Mrs Elomaa referred above. Among other things, in connection with the upper secondary school law currently under discussion in Parliament, we have highlighted the importance of securing the status of small upper secondary schools so that as many young people as possible can study in their own region.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u162	Mr President! I am currently following a number of families that have young people in vocational education or high school who are actually finding it difficult to find money for learning materials, for example — and income support must not be the answer for these families. It costs up to EUR 2,600 to complete upper secondary school, and the cost of some vocational qualifications may in fact be even higher. I find it sad and strange that, on the one hand, we are concerned about the exclusion of young people and the situation of those without vocational training, but we will not be able to get this thing right. The educational material supplement does not remove this overall problem and the aim must therefore be to extend compulsory education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u163	Mr President! The responsibility for secondary education lies with municipalities. Municipalities and cities organise upper secondary school education, and the majority of upper secondary vocational education is organised by joint municipal authorities. I myself chair the Board of Directors of the Oulu Region Joint Municipal Authority for Education, and Osekk is the country's largest provider of secondary vocational education and training. In secondary education, the majority of education is free of charge, as is living in the dormitory in the localities where it is offered. It also depends on the municipality whether the municipality or the city wanted to invest in whether free housing is still offered. It is true that some of the learning tools are acquired by students themselves, but especially on the vocational education and training side there are also such tools that are left to the students themselves to pursue their profession. These include barbers' tools, cookware and safety equipment. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u164	Madam President! More important than completely, I believe that all free secondary education is that the upper secondary school network is kept sufficiently comprehensive and that funding models are built in such a way that they are balanced by both large and small providers of education. As many students as possible must be able to attend school from home and preferably on foot. In addition, the learning material must be gradually transferred to an open online environment and the objective must be a general, common and continuous complement to a kind of bank of national learning material that takes into account quality and, above all, copyright. If this secondary education were to be completely free of charge for all, the price tag, as heard here, would be about EUR 100 million. This is something that needs to be considered in a situation where, however, by far the majority are able to pay for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u165	Let us take two more comments at this stage, because I know that the ministers have a time limit: Mr Andersson and Mr Parviainen, Mr Olli-Son.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u166	Mr President! Although the objective of the free second stage has been shared and shared, this debate reveals some interesting differences as to the views on the role and role of secondary education. As Mr Guzenina has already said, income support has now been offered as one solution, which requires some young people to apply for help from the social services office in order to cover secondary costs. On the other hand, targeted measures have also been proposed. We have been talking about these for a long time, but unfortunately we know that they are unfortunately cyclically sensitive. In other words, when the financial situation is tight, the resources of education are pinched, as has been seen during this parliamentary term, and it is then directly reflected in the income of students and also in the resources of the organiser of education. The idea of extending compulsory education is based on the fact that the second level is also seen as a right for all young people. Extending the idea of education as a universal service, extending the same principle that is currently applied to basic education, to secondary level as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u167	Madam President! This gives the impression that secondary education is, as it were, meant to be free of charge, but it has gradually slipped in the other direction and now, with various measures, attempts are being made to correct it — and it is good, of course, that these measures are being taken. I would like to ask now that the ministers are still present: You have put forward pilot projects of this kind to curb the cost of learning materials at national level. I would like to hear more about what these pilots could actually contain and whether they are related, for example, to the organisation of open digital services or something else. After all, at the moment, we have little to do with the fact that digitalisation has not reduced costs and, in a way, facilitated the introduction of learning materials, but, on the contrary, it has even reduced recycling and thus reduced access to more affordable learning materials.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u168	There are still a few people here who have not received the debate, so let us take them quickly, if that is all right. — — — — Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u169	Madam President! Two very good and essential speeches have been made on what digitalism is and what it should be so that we can easily go free of charge in this study material. It is precisely that we have a particular bank, which would be updated because it would be more cost-effective and then protecting copyright anyway. There must always be an opportunity for an update, but what is really important is that we can have written study material for which the curriculum considers that certain things do not change. Mathematical laws do not change year after year, they are all facts, and should focus on those that such study material that is transferable, some particular change within does not change so that the book needs to be changed again. I'll ask the minister if you're considering this kind of banking system in terms of digitality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u170	Two more replies, and they are representatives of Tavitsainen and Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u171	Mr President! All too often, access to secondary and vocational education for children from low-income families stops because the family cannot afford compulsory textbooks and materials, computers and other necessary tools. Although secondary education should be free of charge, for example, upper secondary school studies cost up to EUR 2000. I am particularly concerned about boys and young men. The proportion of workers who have disappeared has increased, and already 79,000 men of the highest working age have been excluded, and the lack of post-school qualifications is an obstacle to the employment of men. Ministers, what are you going to do about this matter of men and boys and are you going to promote this citizens' initiative?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u172	My last response at this point, Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u173	Mr President! I sometimes went to cook for my primary school-age children, and I'm glad I could finish my debut. I myself wanted to emphasise that the second free level is genuinely free of charge. The cost-free nature of learning materials and other purchases is also an important prerequisite for ensuring that every young person has effective access to a secondary degree. Universal benefits, the fact that it is free for all, are always much easier for a young person than one where the right to petition is required. Whenever there are barriers and barriers to taking only particularly vulnerable young people into account, they are often not in a situation where they can apply for these benefits for themselves. They do not recognize them or can make other choices because they think they are not in such a position. That is why, although it is good that the government is investigating various specific subsidies, they are not enough, but that genuine freedom of payment would be the best guarantee that every young person will receive a secondary degree. At the same time as there is a free second level for everyone, we will be more cost-effective in terms of centralised procurement of materials and the systematic use of electronic materials.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u174	Ministers' replies, will Minister Grahn-Laasonen begin, no more than three minutes? It's a place to talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u175	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors and signatories of the initiative for bringing up an important social gap in the debate. Equality of opportunity is an inalienable starting point for the Finnish education system, and no one's training path must be cut short of wealth or, for example, the cost of learning materials. I believe that there is a strong consensus here on this general principle. What I am very proud of is that the government has taken steps to solve this problem, and I will tell you two important steps. In other words, the government has decided to introduce a study material supplement for student support. It solves this problem in such a way that aid can be targeted at those most in need, i.e. those families and students with low incomes who have incurred costs or may become an obstacle to training. According to the Government's decision, there is a proposal to pay a low-income family student under 20 years of age a study grant supplement of approximately EUR 47, and it is estimated that under this supplement — Minister Terho can explain the preparation situation in more detail — there would be about 35,000 students, about one-fifth of all students in upper secondary school and vocational education. What is more, the news is that this week, in the negotiations on the amending budget, the Government decided to propose to Parliament that we launch pilots for a difference of 2 million in schools and municipalities as to how these costs could be reduced. It is not only a question of how to compensate, but also of how to reduce these material costs. They have grown much in many places, and we need solutions and models that can, for example, enhance recycling, so that materials can be borrowed in order to make use of digitality and so on, so that, of course, we have a local decision on these materials, that is, it is a strong issue in the autonomy of our teachers and in the autonomy of our schools. In addition, there were a number of questions here, to which I would be happy to answer in the context of time limits. In addition to equality, access to education is also an important principle for us, or it is specifically related to educational equality. The main rule should be that secondary education can be completed from a childhood home. Of course, in vocational education and training in particular, not all sectors can be offered in a comprehensive manner throughout Finland, when there are small sectors, but this is the main rule. And it is important that we also maintain this equality of opportunity with regard to this accessibility, and this has also been the case with the government's ongoing major reforms in education and training in secondary school. Of course, now that we are looking at these solutions, the most important thing is to find the priorities to be targeted at. That's why this material supplement is so important. In addition to this, we also have a lot of needs, for example in the development of education, teacher resources in special education, among other things. When we are in this Chamber, it is of course important for us to discuss these priorities, but this is an inalienable starting point for each young person to ensure equality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u176	Then Minister Terho, at most three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u177	Mr President! Indeed, this idea of free secondary education is important above all because of equality of opportunity. As the minister responsible for study aid, this debate draws me, above all, through this many times mentioned educational material supplement. I presented this idea in March and then received considerable support from the government, and so the presentation of the study material supplement is now about to take part in a consultation. In fact, these details are as follows: The educational material supplement is presented to secondary students of low-income families under 20 years of age and would amount to EUR 46.8 per month. The supplement would be granted to the most deprived, i.e. low-income students entitled to a low-income increase, with a maximum income of EUR 41100 per year for parents in these families. A student under 17 years of age could also receive material supplements if he or she fulfilled the conditions for studies and the income limits of parents. In this case, the educational material supplement will also help students from the beginning of upper secondary school. And the educational material supplement should be entitled to an estimated 35,000 students already mentioned here, which means about a third of students receiving upper secondary education and a fifth of all students receiving upper secondary education and vocational education. It can therefore be said that this reform, which is already under way, is particularly effective in helping these disadvantaged people and their studies and, on the other hand, not using tax resources to support students in well-paid families. We agree that no young person's studies must be interrupted because of the poor financial situation of the family, and this is, of course, not only in the interests of the individual but also of the nation. The second level — free of charge — has often been referred to here as ‘free of charge’ but perhaps a more correct ‘tax-financed’ second level — would cause a lot higher costs. There has been talk of 100 million — something like that, no one knows exactly — at least 80 million has been estimated for me, and the cost of the study material supplement is only 14 million a year, so I dare say that this solution, which the government has now made, will promote equality of opportunity in a very cost-effective way. Significant help for students of low-income families, but at the same time limit the burden on the taxpayer as sensibly as possible. So I think this is the wisest way to proceed with the funds that are now available. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u178	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u179	Mr President! When this citizens’ initiative on the free second grade was pending, a woman who wrote from the school of spiders to be a matriculation student told the YLE that at times she had to wait for her mother and father’s payday for weeks to get the schoolbooks she needed. The worst memory had been left of the language lesson at the beginning of high school: ‘I was referring to the absence of a book. The teacher said that without the book there was nothing to do with the following lessons. It made me feel so happy that you embarrassed me in front of the whole class,” he says. Mr President! Indeed, in a social democratic education policy, the second level of freedom is part of the thinking that universally allows children and young people to have access to education that can succeed in society, to find employment and to be able to learn on a continuous basis. We need an integrated school path from a nearby school to a local school, a high school and a vocational school. But as things stand, these studies are indeed interrupted by many because of money. It is likely that paid materials will even prevent the start of studies. Mr President! In January we received the report of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council chaired by Professor Roope Uusitalo. At the moment, the main issue of education policy in Finland was considered to be secondary education and qualifications. The goal would have to be a secondary degree for all, while now between 10 and 15 per cent of the age group are missing it. The Economic Policy Review Council, as the most important measure to ensure the completion of secondary education, called for the extension of compulsory education to cover the second stage. Annex Roope Uusitalo, Hanna Virtanen and Allan to that report As researchers, Seuri has studied the matter quite comprehensively and also internationally. It has been used as a set of young people, some of whom have just reached the second stage and some of them have just been below the point limits or the selection process, and it has been found that these young people would benefit from having access to the second stage and the obligation to do so. Scrooge Uusitalo has also stated that he is somewhat ashamed that, when the cost of completing secondary education has been calculated in the past, its benefits or effects have been less assessed and appear to be significantly more significant. Mr President! Yes, as a Parliament, we can thank Save Children initiative and all organisations involved in this initiative. It has been a great act of democracy and also an expression of the fact that the subject has been seen as very much important and common. This initiative will now allow us to assess the real costs of the second stage. These are mainly professional tools and books or digital materials. In fact, after getting some insight into the matter, I believe that many of the assessments we have received have been presented on the upper deck, as they assume, for example, the current pricing of many publishers. I believe that good solutions can be found, based, for example, on the use of libraries and professional loan agencies. The experiments announced by the Government this week are very welcome news, and hopefully we can also return to the development of a national, public platform for the distribution of learning materials, which has been developed in cooperation with Estonians during the previous Government term. In other words, the idea was precisely a platform which does not seek profit for publishers, but is based on the direct distribution of the materials made by teachers and on any copyright compensation paid for them. Mr President! The second free level leads to the extension of compulsory education to the second level, so that in the future the providers of education are obliged to be responsible for ensuring that young people actually graduate. This obligation should provide more opportunities for organisers to consider guidance and the whole school path. For young people, the assumption of completing their studies and the right to receive and also demand adequate support, guidance and flexible opportunities to move within the upper secondary level should be included in the free-of-charge side. In the longer term, we would certainly see the development of secondary education becoming better suited to the needs of the world. For example, general education should also be increased in vocational education and training. In the changing time, general studies are important for the whole second stage: both upper secondary and vocational school students. In a changing world, it is thinking skills that do not age. In practice, general education studies could be carried out in cooperation with the entire age group in the future. This would be both cost-effective and shared reality-creating action in a time when we are all concerned about bubbling. Mr President! I therefore warmly support this initiative and see it as part of the extension of compulsory education. I am convinced that Finland's success and global position will also be built on equal education, research, education and knowledge in the future. The Social Democratic Party has promoted the raising of education and skills and the restoration of the honour of civilisation to a large extent. Now the promise of education must be both made and kept. Free second grade shall be the first step in the right direction and towards universal, universal secondary compulsory education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u180	Mr President! We can't afford to lose any of our future experts. The same view has been included in the lines of the citizens' initiative that we are now discussing. The citizens' initiative on the free second stage has given rise to a strong debate which the government has already had time to respond to. In connection with the spending limits bar, it was decided that secondary students would receive a material supplement, as we have already heard. Students under 20 years of age with an annual income of less than EUR 40,950 per year are eligible for support and the educational material supplement is approximately EUR 46 per month. This is an impressive and precise measure which will target those who most need it. It was also decided to extend the study grant period for upper secondary school education by one month, which will improve the income of some 15,000 upper secondary school students. The cost of publishing free materials would be around EUR 100 million with taxpayers' money. According to a report by the National Board of Education, 65 per cent of upper secondary school students consider the cost of a high school visit to be reasonable and do not feel that they or their families have difficulties in making a living. However, according to the same survey, 6% of high school students feel that they or their families have significant financial difficulties in making a living. However, in the light of the statistics, a completely free second rate would be an expensive income transfer for the benefit of the good. Educational costs are too expensive for some young people and the support must be adapted to meet the needs of these young people who need it most. However, it should be noted that the immediate costs of secondary education are not the primary reason for the drop-out of the pathway or the obstacle to training, but the background can accommodate many reasons and stories, all of which are individual. The time has passed for mechanical solutions. Young people must be seen as individuals and the need for support must be tailored to each need. Upper secondary school reform contributes to this need. With the reform of the upper secondary school, more support, individual support and even special education are on the way. At the latest, however, it is time to consider ways of keeping the price of course books down. Costors have rubbed their hands for years when changes in study packages and changes in books have guaranteed the cashier’s ring. How can it be that a university can perform without buying the first book, but significant amounts of money are spent on dusty piles of books in upper secondary schools or vocational schools? School decisions are important. By introducing electronic materials, the cost of studying can be reduced. And if we look at high school, for example, we know what is involved in the requirements of the high school curriculum and, in principle, we do not always need the latest book that a particular teacher wants. Here, too, we should see the expansion of teaching methods in teacher education that such book-based teaching would take a backseat. Mr President! Our education system has been built on equal opportunities. No school path should be interrupted or compromised because of the cost of education. The aim of the Coalition Party is for each young person to complete at least a secondary degree. This objective will be achieved through individual support and specific measures. Our children and young people deserve only the best.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u181	Mr President! First of all, I would like to warmly thank the authors of this initiative. This is an excellent initiative. As stated in this initiative, all young people must have equal opportunities to study at secondary level. Article 16 of the Constitution also requires public authorities to ensure that everyone has equal access to non-basic education in accordance with their abilities and specific needs and to develop themselves without prejudice to the lack of resources. At present, post-primary education is not accessible to all young people on an equal footing, although legislation requires it. It is also good to remember that Finland is committed to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and to the UN International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and their obligations must be taken into account in decision-making. We are well aware that those who rely on primary school alone have considerable difficulties in finding employment — the current labour market requires at least a secondary degree. Employment of people dependent on comprehensive school alone is just under 43 per cent. This is a good sign of a change in working life. The share of primary jobs has fallen from 38% in 1987 to 12% in 1987, while the share of higher education jobs has increased from 5% to 15%. Only women who have completed primary education have an average of 21 years of work, 24 for men, as long as the working life can last up to 47 years. The differences between the different levels of education are also considerable. The upper secondary level degree raises the expected value of working life for men to over 32 years and for women to over 33 years. The average working hours of graduates are around 36 years. As many as 15 per cent of Finnish young people have not completed upper secondary education by the age of 25. According to preliminary data from the youth barometer published in 2018, up to a quarter of those who dropped out of upper secondary education report that the lack of money has contributed to the fact that they have not completed their studies. Nearly half of young people without a degree and a place of education have had to drop out of their studies or give them up because of a lack of money. Every young person needs sufficient knowledge and skills to cope in a changing world. Above all, we are talking about the possibility of success in working life and lifelong learning. At present, exclusion from secondary education predicts lower health status, more periods of unemployment and significantly shorter working lives than those with higher education. This development may continue to increase with the growth of skills requirements in working life. Mr President! A truly free and complete educational path from early childhood education to higher education enables Finland to fully exploit its competence potential and increases equality between families. The educational material supplement decided by the government is in itself a step in the right direction, but that is not enough. The aim must be to extend compulsory education. There is scientific evidence of the benefits of extending the compulsory education age. For example, according to the Economic Policy Evaluation Council, raising the compulsory education age to 18 would significantly increase the share of upper secondary education graduates in the age group, and this would bring significant benefits to the employment and income of the persons concerned. This is also reflected in the long-term improvement in the state of public finances. Increasing the compulsory education age would be a straightforward, well-targeted and cost-effective way of improving the labour market position of those excluded from education. It would be the least successful pupils with the highest probability of being excluded from education who would benefit most from continuing their education. A number of young people are excluded from education and training, whose educational attainment could be significantly increased through the reform. Extending compulsory education is therefore not a mechanical measure, nor would it be intended to force all young people into a so-called ordinary schooling. The idea would be to hold on to all young people so that they are involved in goal-oriented learning. It may also mean, for example, target-based workshops, preparatory training, work trials or so-called tenth grade activities, or even rehabilitation for some — the main thing is to stick to goal-oriented learning. A single year away from goalful learning can cause a young person much harm in his future career. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u182	Mr President! Last week it was 50 years since the law on comprehensive school was passed in this Chamber. The presenting minister was Johannes Estonian and, of course, it is a very important issue for the centre as a cultural movement, and it is wonderful to bear its legacy. [Ville Niinistö’s interlude] The issue now before us is also very important. In Sweden, secondary education has been free of charge for high school and vocational school students for quite a long time. Of course, it is also the case that, if you look at the reform of vocational education and training, which has been possible in this period, it itself would certainly have required to be done much earlier. Combined with considerable savings, its implementation is not quite simple, but it is important that the legislation has now been reformed. I am convinced that this will bring a lot of new opportunities for vocational training. Of course, history has not really been terribly easy for the last few years of government. If we look at the results we now see from the North and Eastern Finland, then the cuts have been massive in the past, and then they were particularly directed at Northern and Eastern Finland. At that time, 15% of my own territory was cut. If you think more about education than general education, it has also been significant that, for example, there have been no austerity measures in this parliamentary term. It has provided the basis for comprehensive schools and upper secondary school education to develop their own activities within the framework of good resources. Mr President! The city centre wants to talk about education rather than compulsory education. It is a great thing that in this country you can study passion and desire as long as you can, and everyone must also have the right to do so. It would make sense to have the right to study until the age of 18. Moreover, it would also be important that if a young person did not get a secondary degree, then he would be taken into a booth, and, of course, that booth could be taken in the most sensible way by the municipality of residence. In spite of the fact that we can obtain the right to study at 18 years of age, this does not yet guarantee that everyone will necessarily obtain a secondary degree. It is also important to bear in mind that not only does it concern vocational training and education, but it is also necessary to bring liberal education into this field. It is important that secondary education can be flexible in these different fields. Of course, it is also a fact that, unfortunately, this government will not be able to bring about such a massive change, which requires considerable financial resources, bearing in mind that the state is still in debt. Fortunately, that debt ratio has already gone downhill, and I am convinced that this reform will also be carried out by future parliaments. What has been done is linked, for example, to the material supplement. It is not a trivial matter that 40,000 students at second degree will receive an educational material supplement of 46 euros per month starting in autumn 2019. I also remember what it felt like when I was a high school student, when the money was not always enough for schoolbooks and I had to think about how to get the books of the course in question. It is also important to consider widely the various ways in which learning materials can be better used together as they become more electric. The second point, which is important and which has already been decided by this central government, relates to the impact of student aid on the second level and on the income of parents. It is very important that this link was dismantled. Secondary students must also have the right to independent study regardless of the income level of the parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u184	Mr President! Irade the Talman! Let me begin by saying that I warmly support the citizens' initiative. The aim of the Greens is, at least in the next government negotiations, to make a free second stage happen so that the next government will then implement it. Perhaps I wanted to start by stressing that there is a big difference between the parties. Anyone who is not in favour of universal rights is trying to obscure that distinction, and here, in particular, the party on the right side of us, or the coalition. The Coalition Party always talks about specific measures and that it is necessary to identify those particularly vulnerable young people who need to be individually helped. At the same time, there was opposition to comprehensive school. It was felt that girls could be helped in high school and so forth on the ground. However, in the light of all research, the fact that certain basic education opportunities are equal, universal and free of charge is the best guarantee that young people in this country have the opportunity to pursue their dreams on an equal footing, regardless of their family background. Universal benefits always become cheaper, more flexible, easier to use for young people than talking about specific measures, but not all young people will be able to access them and not all will be able to take advantage of them. That is why the second level, which is genuinely free of charge, is also a very effective way of getting all young people a secondary degree and helping disadvantaged families to cope with everyday life. After this second-degree free-of-charge citizens' initiative came out, I also received numerous contacts from family mothers, family children, single parents about how much high school books and amisbooks cost and how difficult parents are to pay for them. In all families, parents do not share these concerns with children, but then in many families young people themselves also have to take responsibility for secondary education. It cannot be that a young person’s concerns about the economy and his economic livelihood prevent him from reaching out to the sector that best adapts to himself on the basis of interest and knowledge. Currently, only about 40% of those who do not have a secondary degree are at work. This figure is considerably lower than any other group with a higher degree, i.e. a secondary degree is actually the single largest explaining factor for getting a job when you have access to working life. And as all occupations become more and more challenging and new skills need to be learned during their careers, this simply underlines that we cannot raise the new age groups of young people who fail to graduate in secondary school. On an annual basis, the cost of textbook materials and other costs can now be as much as a thousand euros, and that is a great deal for a low - income family. The most sensible thing would therefore be for a free second level to be achieved. It is a very cost-effective way of helping young people. Then comes the debate on extending compulsory education, and I am glad that the centre has come out with this new model they call education. In fact, it is similar to what the Greens have previously supported. We simply came to the conclusion that, although the word "obligatory" sounds unfortunate, in terms of the rights of young people, there is an effective legal instrument for municipalities to ensure that every young person has access to a place of education and to remain underage in education, and that is compulsory education. Why create another system just because the name sounds a little unpleasant when there are some responsibilities involved? Compulsory education as a structure has been made to ensure that young people must be offered access to education. It obliges more municipalities, and that's what you have to think. But I would like to welcome the fact that the Centre has also taken this step, because this model of the right to education, in substance, talks about almost the same things that compulsory education means in legislation, and so we still have this one specific party, that is to say the coalition, which is not in favour of extending compulsory education in any form, or at least to the extent that the centre is prepared to discuss it. We Greens see that, up to the age of 18, every young person must be able to have a place of education constantly available and, if the field needs to be changed, a new place is available to ensure that everyone gets a secondary degree as well. In other words, it is not only the fact that, during the transition period, the second level of education is guaranteed, but it is also important that the degree is completed. In it student care and secondary resources, local education, all these are particularly important. And finally, the subject that must be mentioned here, namely the shameful cuts in education in the Sipilä regime. If you cut about EUR 200 million from vocational education to secondary level, you can’t come here and pretend that ‘we’re going to take care of young people’, you can’t really do it. Indeed, many young people who just needed the support of a teacher have fallen to such a low level that it is those young people who are visited by conscientious teachers at amix to make sure that they are sure to come to school when there are limits or problems in the family that they are going to miss school more and more often because of the fact that local education resources can stay as low as 10 hours a week. We are already talking about such small amounts that it is particularly the young people who need the most support, that is, the very people we are talking about, the young people who need to be guaranteed that student care and financial conditions and the support of society ensure, at second instance, that the degree is completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u187	Seven minutes 30 is getting full. — Representative Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u188	Mr President! Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers — free of charge second stage, an important topic. The citizens' initiative refers to the Constitution, according to which public authorities must ensure equal access to non-basic education for everyone, in accordance with their abilities and specific needs, and to develop themselves without prejudice to their wealthlessness. This Constitutional objective is fine but at the same time challenging to implement in a complete way. The socio-economic status of the family has a proven impact on the education of the offspring. We Finns are strongly in favour of making studies possible for all, up to the university level. The important point I would like to raise here is the implementation of equality in education at regional level. It is clear that there are more subjects where there are people, or growth centers. But in remote areas, even the few secondary studies are now being driven down. You'd think the city center would prefer to hold the sides of rural upper secondary schools and vocational institutions against the City Coalition. The coverage of the educational institution network plays an important role already in the implementation of the Constitution. The study opportunities of Finnish young people must not depend on the family's wealth. If the network of educational institutions decreases, more and more secondary students will become impossible to live at home. This was also well mentioned in their speeches by representatives Savio, Eerola and Harry Wallin. It is obvious that the cost of living bounces away when a young person moves into his or her own country. On the other hand, despite the subsidies, not everyone can afford this without financial assistance from home. I believe that maintaining a comprehensive school network is also a good way to influence the price tag for secondary education. Mr President! Free secondary education would be a great thing. According to the initiative, high school can cost up to 2,600 euros, and vocational education and training may cost up to thousands of euros. The lack of money has affected the decision to drop out of secondary education in one quarter. I very much hope that at the moment, secondary schools will consider how to reduce the fees for study from different sources of students. The payment of secondary studies is a clear place for consideration by the Ministry. For a long time, education has been Finland’s strength and pride, and everyone must have the opportunity to do so in the future. At the end of the day, I will go back to the coverage of the educational establishment network and how important it is. I used to go to Mynämäki High School myself. The school trip was really long and challenging. There was no public transport, so for one year in principle I had to live in a small one-room apartment near the centre of Mynämäki. It was kind of challenging for a 16-year-old, and I understand that someone can be too challenging. For my part, I remember that even then the pennies were stretched. On Monday, when I made the coffee with reindeer, the same reindeer was still in that coffee pot on Friday, a little reindeer and a little water were added, and the coffee was blue and no longer the colour of coffee. But I hope that this will be addressed in particular. This is a very important issue. I would like to thank the citizens' initiative again, and I wish it every success. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u189	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank these initiatives. They have raised a very important issue here. In fact, when you think about it, there has been a lot of discussion recently about this situation in secondary education and how it should be developed. It is not a question of young people not wanting to study for themselves but of simply having limited opportunities to study, just because of the economic considerations they have. I am glad that when you monitor the results of the youth barometer, young people are very positive about education. They appreciate general education and believe that education improves access to employment, and it shows a fine attitude toward one’s own goal of acquiring a profession. We in the Left Alliance have demanded this secondary education as a fundamental right for young people and as a follow-up to free basic education, because inequality is an obstacle to the school path and to getting a job. Economic barriers actually reduce the opportunities for young people to decide on the field and place of study. According to the youth barometer, as many as 17% of all young people say they have reduced their study options due to lack of money. Economic reasons have made it particularly difficult for young people without qualifications or a place of study to be educated, and almost half of them have had to drop out of their studies or give them up because of a lack of money. I have to say that this current government has its own reasons for having these student cuts, for reducing schools, for reducing professional lines and for running away from study places, and so there will be more travel expenses. Mr President! At the moment, we are living in a major phase of transformation in Finland where older workers are retiring all the time. A young, new workforce is needed for working life both in the business world and in the public sector. It's a fact of life you run into when you look at our age structure. It is estimated that this freedom of charge for secondary education will cost society EUR 100 million. On the other hand, considering the costs of social exclusion for young people, they are estimated at up to EUR 1.4 billion. When you think about these figures and those goals, I always wonder that if young people got a job for themselves, set up businesses or go to work, what would be the extra effort that they could make for society — if they had the opportunity to get a job for themselves? Today we already have 69,000 marginalised young people without secondary education. So can we really afford to waste so much skilled capital in Finland with this social structure? We are a small people, and we believe that every individual must be taken care of. Everyone must be given the opportunity to continue building the foundation of well-being through education and occupation. I support this initiative and it is also supported by the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u190	Mr President! The citizens' initiative, free of charge for all secondary education, is very much to be welcomed, and it is already on this point that I would like to thank all those who have signed the citizens' initiative, those who work for it and those who work behind it. Finland is a nation whose success is based on a high level of education and an equal education policy. These have built up economic success and well-being over the past decades. Education cuts in this parliamentary term are putting this development at risk. They make it more difficult to build the future, but the importance of high-quality skills becomes more important every day. That is what we should remember in this Chamber. What do we need now? We now need to restore Finland's education policy to a basic line where high levels of education do not require economically privileged starting points. Obstacles to training must be systematically dismantled. Secondly, there is no doubt that these obstacles exist, and the proposals on second-degree free-of-charge contribute to these challenges. The strength of our society has traditionally been that a significant part of the age group receives a relatively high level of education. In today's labour market, a strong educational base enables us to survive. The other side of the coin is that without an adequate training basis, it is easy to be excluded from the labour market for a long time. At the same time as we return to an equal education policy, we must also be at the forefront of development. Education needs to be continuously developed in line with the needs of society and also the business world. Mr President! Adequate knowledge, skills and knowledge make people free to implement themselves as full members of society. In order to balance rights and obligations, we, as a society, must also be able to demand that young people invest in their own skills and provide support to achieve this objective. I believe that this is the red thread of a social democratic education policy. Increasing the compulsory education age would increase tax revenues and reduce social security expenditure in the future, and in the long term these benefits would probably cover the cost of the reform, even if the reform would include additional investments in student guidance or, among other things, special education. This would also strengthen the basis that we need in order to cope with international economic competition in society. I would like to remind all of us that investing in education is not an extra cost or an expensive purchase decision, but an investment in education is a very profitable investment in the future. It is a pleasure to support this citizens' initiative. I think that at this stage it is just Parliament's turn, and that is why the eyes will turn to the forthcoming government programme after the next elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u191	Mr President! Just as colleagues have said before, this citizens' initiative is extremely important, and its aim has certainly received a great deal of support in this House. It is true, of course, that when we consider how we can achieve this, just as the previous speaker said, the eyes will certainly turn more to the next government and to the forthcoming governments. But the principle that we in Finnish society must be able to guarantee equality of opportunity for all is extremely important, and no one's studies must be caught up, for example, in the economic situation of parents. However, this debate has already highlighted what the government has now proposed in the spending limits debate, namely that, since autumn 2019, approximately 40,000 low-income students in upper secondary schools and vocational schools would receive this EUR 46 educational material supplement, which would then be able to obtain learning materials in particular or its computer. The cost of this reform has been estimated at around 14 million, while this so-called large-scale free-of-charge initiative would require more than EUR 100 million. As I said in my debatable speech, I think that this is a good step and I am sure that this is the right way forward, because if we were to declare that, now, perhaps from next autumn onwards, free of charge will come into force, then I see the danger that the publishers of these teaching materials will then smell different possibilities of money, and in the sense that it is currently specifically tied up with the support of these most deprived students, it is the right way. Even when it is considered that a total of 190,000 students between 16 and 19 years of age are in upper secondary schools and vocational schools, and then, with this government proposal, about 40,000 students would be receiving this support, it is, however, a fairly good number. I believe that, just as I said here, it is the right thing to do, that is to say, for those students who have the strongest financial strength, because it is linked to this so-called 'deprived' increase, that is to say, to those who are entitled to it. Well, then, of course, what can be said to be such a positive thing about that spending limits bar is that this student allowance period for upper secondary school education is extended from 9 months to 10 months, and it improves the financial conditions of some 15,000 upper secondary school students for that study. It is also a very central and important issue. It has also been considered what other ways besides this direct support for these materials would be to make this free of charge and pave the way for it. The potential of municipalities, for example through libraries, to acquire and recycle learning material or whether, for example, electronic learning material is an open code or something similar that could be used. Of course, these are also something worth considering. Perhaps it is also worth considering the idea that why we have started off on the road, that we take for granted that high school education must cost hundreds if not nearly thousands of euros, while in university education it is quite normal for university libraries to acquire almost enough courses, such as course materials and also books that will be exams, and universities are somehow well accustomed to not having to spend much of their money on acquiring these exams or study materials, and in some way it may have also been possible to do a little bit of this sort of stuff, as culture does at these different levels of education. I would also like to draw attention here to the material acquisition of vocational education and training. This is also so that it should not be forgotten that on the vocational education and training side there are often the acquisition of various tools, the purchase of various protective instruments, which also hold hundreds of euros. Of course, one can still think about the fact that when a young person starts his studies, usually all these material purchases want to come in at the very beginning. That, of course, if this educational material supplement can still be discussed in some way, then one might wonder, for example, whether it would be possible to obtain a significantly higher amount at the outset or to cumulate it in some way so that there would be a higher amount at the beginning of the semester, because in fact those needs usually come as soon as the studies begin. Mr President! So, as I said here, this is an extremely welcome citizens' initiative, and I believe that this is a step in the right direction, but it is a good thing — and this is something that you can acknowledge to the government from the opposition — that we are now moving in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u193	Mr President! Working life has changed, and comprehensive school alone is no longer the way it used to be. Experts sometimes estimate ten years ago that in the future only 1% of jobs will be able to survive without any post-basic school qualifications. The working careers of young people who remain solely dependent on primary school will be shorter and more severe than those of young people who complete secondary school. Up to 15 per cent of Finnish young people have not completed upper secondary education by the age of 25. Young people should now be able to complete the necessary second level without stress on the cost of learning materials. Income problems are reflected in the well-being and well-being of the whole family in low-income families. It is totally unreasonable for underage people — children — to be stressed out about money. Unfortunately, however, it is a reality. I once talked to a 16-year-old boy, a friend of my child's, who told me he wasn't going to go to high school because his single mother couldn't afford to pay for her schoolbooks. I studied the situation a little and then told this boy that there is a Save the Children Association support for deprived families and it is intended specifically for such schooling expenses, but I couldn't convince this boy that he could manage his high school studies financially. Yes, I must say that this conversation has stuck in my mind as a very heartbreaking situation. I must say that I had a strong feeling that I still remember well that we, as a society, including myself, have all failed the promise we made to our children. Every child, every young person, should have confidence that society bears and supports. The right to trust that we can study that we can survive also belongs to the child of a low-income, poor family. In a welfare state, it cannot be that a young person is forced to drop out of school because of family income problems or is afraid to even apply for them. In the welfare state, the right and the opportunity to study must also not depend on the charities of organisations. An equal opportunity to study and develop themselves without fail is enshrined in Article 16 of the Constitution, but now that promise is not fulfilled. I also find it extremely shameful that children who have been taken into care are flagrantly under-represented in secondary education. In my opinion, we would owe it to these young people to support their chances of survival from basic education to secondary education. According to the youth barometer in 2017, as many as 17 per cent of young people reported having to reduce their study options due to lack of money. One in four dropout students reported that the family’s poor financial situation has contributed to the dropout. We decision-makers should dismantle these structural barriers to the lives of deprived families. A genuine second-degree free-of-charge would be an important step. It is the right of every child to receive education. And I would like to remind you that the government sitting in its government programme is also committed to assessing the impact of decisions on children and the family, for example on the impact of income distribution. It is worrying that in Finland, failure to train and poverty have started to be inherited again. For example, in Helsinki the phenomenon is also related to regional segregation, i.e. there are areas from which, for example, there is a significant reduction in upper secondary school education compared to other, well-being regions. Free learning materials do not necessarily need to be implemented on the basis of the current system, which requires the purchase of a large number of books. The free-of-charge materials can also be built through e.g. digital books, digital platforms and libraries, as is the case with universities. Unfortunately, the educational material supplement proposed by the Government in the spending limits debate does not yet cover all the purchases necessary for studies, which are not only upper secondary school books, but also the means of study required for vocational education and training institutions. Moreover, monthly support is not well suited to a situation where purchases focus on the beginning of semesters and periods. It is also wrong to force a second - degree youth to apply for income support for their studies. Young people should not be divided into two castes according to their parents ’ wealth. The second level should be free of charge in real terms and in practice. The educational material supplement and income support do not solve all the problems associated with poverty. Studying entails a wide range of expenses that would not be covered by the educational material supplement or income support. For example, Kela’s school travel allowance covers only at least 10 km and more than 54 euros per month for school trips, and in the Helsinki region, for example, the monthly card costs 53 euros, which in three years totals more than 1400 euros for travel alone. The problem is also that income support authorities have started to demand that upper secondary school students apply for student loans. It is wrong that a young person in a poor family should finance their high school studies with a student loan. So the child of a low-income family should apply. [The President knocks ] A genuine free second-degree citizens' initiative combines many important themes:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, we have no less than 7 minutes of this speaking time, and it is a little too much now that 7.40 is on the meter. In the future, I hope for condensation, and we'll stick to the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u195	Mr President! This is a very important citizens' initiative, and we have been discussing its content for some time now and, of course, the importance of education and, of course, the impact of the cost and cost of learning materials. Here comes the story of the true stories collected by Save the Children’s Association in Finland: “I am a relatively low-income family and study abroad, as the locality does not offer the training I need. Living alone and the high costs involved caused great financial difficulties when I was a minor in my family. Surprising expenses, such as the paid exercise lesson announced on a couple of days’ notice, could mean that my family did not eat oatmeal for a couple of days.” Here is one of the many true stories about Finland, which is what it means in the low-income families where the cost of learning materials and housing is insurmountably high. Today, here in Parliament, we have been discussing a citizens' initiative aimed at making the second level free for all students. There are a large number of child and student organisations among the supporters of the initiative, and it was eventually signed by over 53,000 Finns. I am very pleased that the necessary number of names were put together and that Parliament is now able to deal with this important initiative. But why is the free second level such an important goal? Concerned voices about the impact of the financial situation of families on the choices of young people are now coming from many different directions. In the light of the results of the latest youth barometer, we know that money really distinguishes young people's study opportunities. In particular, this is reflected in the situation of young people excluded from primary education. One of the questions at the youth barometer was ‘Have you had to study in Karsiland for lack of money?’. Of all post-basic level candidates,thisresulted in a ‘yes’ The results of the youth barometer are shocking in a country where we are used to thinking that everyone can study for themselves even if they have a university degree without falling into money: with such a large proportion the wall is coming up against the economic situation right after primary school. This also affects the inheritance of uneducated persons. On the basis of the interviews, it can be said that the lack of money is particularly a problem for those who have chosen vocational training. The costs of those studying in vocational schools vary widely between vocational qualifications, study lines and fields, and it is difficult to estimate the total costs. Students pay for sector-specific tools, accessories and uniforms. Those studying in vocational schools have to move from their childhood home to secondary school more often than upper secondary school students. The risk of poverty increases in young people who move from home. The cost of school trips can also be significant. Mr President! However, the second-degree price tag is also an acute problem on the upper secondary school side. In addition to teaching material and information technology, a fee is also paid for participating in matriculation examination and each subject to be written. Save Children have estimated the total cost of upper secondary school education to be approximately 2500 euros. This is a huge sum for low-income families and also for families with many children as secondary students at the same time. The Left Alliance warmly supports this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u196	Mr President! Valuable and good, constructive speeches have been used. Everyone is in favour of this citizens' initiative, and who would now dare not support it when it comes to fundamental human civilisation and the acquisition of a possible profession that is very important in society? Our over 60,000 marginalised young people are not the example we need to dodge in a way, but that fact is a fact. It is these people who must be supported by our education system. Therefore, perhaps more extensive and longer-term compulsory education in upper secondary education would be a good thing. As a person with learning disabilities, I can say that support is the best thing a person can get when he graduates to work. What kind of stairs do we have? As a supporter of the apprenticeship system, I would also like to keep it in this, at least in an oral way, that this should be the case. The fact that we are now discussing this citizens' bill remains with the Lord, so to speak, that is to say, this bill will lapse, and it is a gesture of goodwill for the next government to adopt it in its government programme. Here, too, I would like to remind you that we should constitutionally change this system so that, even if there is a change in parliament, the opinion of the public will not change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u199	Mr President! A good and constructive debate has taken place. I think that someone described this development in such a way that we have gradually slipped into a situation where this second stage has become more expensive and more expensive. It has probably not been anyone's idea in the first place, and against this background, it is good that a series of corrections is now being taken in the other direction, and that is where the government has already started. I agree that it is not yet all-embracing and all-embracing, so further steps are needed, and therefore the objective of a truly free second stage is important and right. But in addition to that, I believe that we also need interference in education and compulsory education. This current situation is unsustainable, with more than thousands of young people missing secondary education every year for a variety of reasons. However, I do not believe there is one formula for this, and that is why today we have presented our own model, which is a bit of a downtown model, a model in the middle. It would assume that the right to study would be extended to 18 years of age when it is now 17 years of age, i.e. an additional year would be added as an obligation, in addition to a mere comprehensive school curriculum, to have the student ready for further study and, if he or she is under 18 years of age, to stop school, then it will be interpreted that there is no further study capacity and then return to the most different forms. It can be liberal education, it can be tenth grade, it can be workshop-type learning and so on. The peeking windows for those comprehensive school programmes will be even stronger, allowing closer co-operation between secondary schools already in primary school, and then, as it were, a checkpoint in the seventh grade, where these post-graduate skills would begin to be examined. So we also need reform for this, but not a formula. A simple ‘yes’ and ‘no’ is not a good thing for young people in the reform This too is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u200	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! I agree with the comments that the debate has been — mainly — a meaningful and good thing for a common cause. The Parliament Hall is decorated with a series of statues by Wäinö Aaltonen, the little boy in the middle of which reminds us parliamentarians that we make all the decisions, or we have to make all the decisions, for the future. Children and young people have a future, and the look and greeting hand of that boy reminds us each day in this important hall of this matter. Studying any young person must not be caught at second grade for money or family background. At that earlier stage, I also raised the concern that, as the Chairman of the Committee on Education, Mr Puumala, has pointed out, there has been a little bit of a second step, as has been the case with the tinkering of things that cost money. Something small at some point first, then a computer, then something else. And now there are similar dangers on the side of elementary school in the air. I personally consider it important that — although I am not in favour of a categorical ban on voluntary work by, for example, parental committees or classes, where they raise money for school trips or camp schools, that is also good educational work — care must be taken to ensure that no child or young person on a school trip, any other trip or camp school is caught up in the fact that the family cannot afford to participate in this fundraising. But there is also one indication that such a slight lapse is taking place. I remember myself when a food fee was set for our high school, it took me about six months to remember, we had to pay for high school food in the depression of the '90s, then it was intervened and it was found that high school included free school food. That's one of these slippers. At least that food was secured, but these other payments have been increasing all along. And as pointed out above, materials, school trips have increased significantly in the second stage for both upper secondary school students and, above all, in vocational education and training, and there are a lot of other small and larger expenses, such as certain tools and clothes and, as I recall, certain types of work equipment for those studying as a chef or studying as a timper, which Mrs Elomaa also drew attention to in her own speech. I'm not in favour of having to go to school myself. I do not believe that the young person in charge will remain in school, but rather that I would prefer us to invest more in the youth guarantee, education and personal learning paths and personal support, such as special education, student guidance and the like, so as to help those young people who especially need it. Mrs Myllykoski raised an issue which we have discussed here before, I think, with her too, namely the expiry of the citizens' initiatives to the elections, and that is something that needs to be corrected. In a certain way, you can now say that it is the wrong time to put together citizens' initiatives, because they will not be able to deal with them during this Parliament, and then this system will not work. I absolutely support this proposal that citizens' initiatives should not lapse in the elections but should then continue in the next Parliament. But why did I say that the discussion has been primarily good and proper? I do not think that Mrs Niinistö's speech represented such a debate. Once again, it left a clear picture of better and flawless greens. When the Greens were in the government, the net savings in education were over EUR 800 million. He did remember the savings in education made by all the other parties, and he also denied that other parties should not talk about education or investment or reform of education, because they have made cuts in education. He forgot that when he was president of the Greens and the Greens were in the board of directors, more than EUR 800 million were cut out of education: no reform of upper secondary school education, no investment in primary school, no reform of primary school education, no reform of primary school teacher's education, the necessary reform of secondary vocational education, no progress. And yet, when they have disdained all the other parties for their educational savings, which have been difficult, painful, unpleasant for everyone who has done them, he forgot to say that in the alternative budget for the Greens, the cuts in education would have continued during this parliamentary term. In their own alternative, shadow budget, they proposed cuts to early childhood education of nearly 100 million, vocational schools of 110 million, and universities of higher education also made cuts when they were in the opposition, i.e. they told us that they would have continued their training cuts. I just wanted to say this and say in the Minutes that the Minutes do not leave a completely wrong picture of perfectly flawless, clearly better green parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u201	Mr President! I too would like to thank the organisations for the fact that this citizens' initiative is on the table. I remember myself thinking that I can go to high school, because in Finland everyone has the opportunity to study in whatever profession they want — this was what I had learned in comprehensive school in social studies. Then when high school started, I found it more expensive than I realized. I borrowed or bought old books, used books, from older students, but still there was always an account to be paid at the bookstore every month. I know that paying for these books was a big and extra expense for my parents. Yet it was always clear that you have to study and get to study. This was the reality of the 1990s for the majority of families. Since then, the world has changed in many respects, including the fact that students today need information technology, the materials vary frequently, because information changes and should always depend on the latest information. This has meant increasing costs for students and their families, even so that the goal of Finland’s well-being can no longer be maintained. Not everyone can afford to study, or the constant difficulties in publishing the studies make the student tire out and finish their studies. However, the second level free of charge is part of the thinking that children and young people should be able to have access to education that is able to survive in society, to find employment and to be able to learn for life. That is why we need such a path from a nearby day-care centre to that school, high school and vocational school. That is the aim of the Social Democrats. Mr President! A 16-year-old is one of the most important turning points in his life. He should make choices that affect the long future. Many feel that this important choice is a choice between study places and fields. That's what it is for most people. Instead, some youths make an unwitting choice between living on the fringes of society and a safe future. After comprehensive school, a young person who chooses not to study his or her days for content, chooses for himself a future that includes temporary work, unemployment, lower income and living standards and lower pension intake. Few youths understand that they choose such a life for themselves. Being excluded from education at a young age predicts that a secondary degree may not be completed during the entire lifetime. Sixteen per cent of young adults in Finland under the age of 25 have only comprehensive education. In total, some 40 per cent of them are outside education or employment. This reflects the fact that if a young person fails to complete secondary education, his or her chances on the labour market are very low. Thus, if about 10,000 young people are left to primary school every year, this is also a major problem for society. And if we can do different things to help young people, so that fewer and fewer people — even if not one — are left out of education, then that is what we must do together. In January, the Economic Policy Review Council published a report which identified as one of the priorities of education and training policy the achievement of secondary education for the whole age group. The Council recommended that consideration be given to extending compulsory education to secondary level. If compulsory education were extended to a secondary level, it would also be completely free of charge to complete a degree. That is something I warmly support. Mr President! Finally, I recently visited the everyday life of the vocational school. The reform of the law on vocational education and training, which came into force from the beginning of the year, has further raised concerns about the reduction in the level of education needed to develop the skills of students in educational institutions, and I would like to express that concern in this context. Responsibility for teaching is transferred from educational institutions to companies by increasing the share of learning in teaching plans in working life. The idea in itself sounds good, but if implementation often means the conversion of self-employed individuals into free teachers for ever longer periods, the situation will certainly not benefit either the student or the entrepreneur. If, even before the reform, there has been a worrying message about the serious decline in students' professional skills, then the fear is that this feedback will only increase. The savings in education are reflected in a clear reduction in teaching hours for students and, as a result, in a clear reduction in the level of knowledge for companies. After the visit, there was a deep concern about the educational and professional capacity of today’s young people to become independent and look for their own path in working life. So, finally, the world is by no means ready and nothing must be taken for granted — not that a young person in Finland has the opportunity to be trained in any profession he wants, not that our education system guarantees a high level of general education for all our citizens. Nothing is certain if we do not make sure that this also happens, and that is what we need decisions to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u202	Madam President! I think the Finnish school system is perhaps the best in the world, at least the best I know. All talent resources will be recovered here because education is free and comprehensive and of a high quality. The fact that education is being continued and expanded, deepened, certainly has some advantages, but I was surprised by the article that was in the Helsingin Sanomat today, which stated that the ability of children of the general population to control the percentage, understand the ten-system, to write in such a way that when a big letter comes and when it does not, is quite so low for many that there is no desire for further education at all. This also includes the point that teachers no longer give terms, let go, but at a later stage of life this may be quite difficult. During my schooling almost every year there was at least one condition, and I do not think it was a bad decision — after all, it was read in the summer that had not been done in the winter. But if teachers let people who can't count the percentage, there will be trouble with their own life - control at a later stage. I wonder if there should still be some gates in this teaching system that do not just go through, but have to know certain basics, because at a later stage of life they are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u203	Mr President! The representative, Mr Lehti, is paying attention to this important issue. We have developed a model for this. What would you say, Mr Lehti, that preschool, primary school first class and second grade would form a three-year package in which we are the time it requires? Those with home affairs and catching up could get out of that three - year package faster, and those who need more support would be there without any stigma, for longer than three years, for example four years. This is precisely to ensure that, for example, in our best comprehensive school in the world, in terms of literacy, they are better equipped to go to secondary school, vocational school or upper secondary school. This is the type of model that we have outlined, and I would like to hear what you think about it, because this includes the very idea that you rightly raise. We can't give up, can we? We have the best comprehensive school in the world, and it must remain that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u204	Madam President! I will answer without being asked: the idea in itself seems to be to be welcomed, and it is precisely the possibility that young people and children with learning difficulties can become better supported and thus be given the skills needed for the following educational paths. However, I would like to return to it — and this is not the position of the Left Alliance, but is Mrs Myllykoski’s own view — that we should have paths after primary school to work for those young people who want to enter the labour market and for whom theoretical learning, perhaps in accordance with the model that has just been presented, could not provide better opportunities for further studies. We are, for our part, fascinated by this culture of high knowledge, and if you look around society, what kind of jobs there are non-Finnish people... We have, in a way, eliminated it when our regulations on safety at work prevent young people from entering the labour market, and we have allowed it to fade away, and those who have dropped out of secondary school are left out because they do not have that degree. The aim of having to be able to continue training is certainly a good one, but there could be other systems. That if, for example, two years of secondary school attends, we would have a step-by-step which gives us theoretical opportunities to continue to apply for a university of applied sciences — even if there was a six-month period where learning conditions were given in order to be able to move to a university of applied sciences. All in all, I welcome the fact that there are different ideas coming up, and it is hoped that this government, for its part in the reform of secondary education, will be able to take a critical look at what Mr Salonen pointed out that we are giving responsibility for training to small and medium-sized enterprises, where resources have already been scaled up so that every worker makes a productive contribution to the work. Because of its business and profitability, there is absolutely no opportunity to decouple resources for training. It is just that the entrepreneur has not thought that part of the work of this professional or female goes to improve the professional competence of a student. In other words, we must find another channel to do this, so that as a society we support those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in order to enable them to learn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u205	Mr President! They're just touching our toes, but there's a tidal wave coming. At least this way I feel that we are already getting a very worrying message from various sides that things are not working out. But we do not yet see what lies ahead, which, like the tidal wave, will befall us and the decision makers if we do not now see that we are making the necessary changes. Education equals the differences between children and children, depending on their starting points. This is an important point to take into account. But I would already look at families and society more generally. The more inequality increases in society, the more difficult it is in comprehensive school to balance the differences between children. All the more difficult are the opportunities, both in basic and continuing training, to bring everyone the opportunity to have the same level of general education and to go on a professional path as well. So, yes, we must be concerned about how families can be, how parents are part of this society, how much income inequality is growing in this society, who gets to work, who is completely excluded from working life. All this leads and transports the child towards primary school and then there, as it were, an increasing inequality, a growing gap between those who are doing well in this society and those who are not doing well. And if there are still cuts, if we further reduce the number of contact education, for example, this is likely to reduce the possibility of balancing family inequalities. That is what we must now realise that we have now taken measures which in the future are going to undermine everything on which Finland has relied – for example, Mr Lehti said this – on which Finland may have been proud and from which Finland will be viewed. Now we must hear this message and take it seriously and invest in teaching for the sake of our children and the future of this country as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u206	Madam President! Representative Puumala presented one solution, which at least makes sense to me: let's move on to the appropriate path of adoption for the student, but what is essential is that he learns basic skills in life management, reading, writing and counting. And when they do not appear to be completely successful in this present system, something must be done here, because the fact that the student is left to primary school without a secondary degree is not a very good prediction. In my own place, I have paid particular attention to young men who do not go into military service either, which is actually the last step in society that guides life on the right track. The army could go a little bit to itself, too, I think, just as it has already been said here that an entrepreneur cannot train, but the army is the best education organisation in Finland. There could be a shorter military service, even if nothing else was taught there except to carry a truck or excavator. Even those drivers are needed during the war, but that degree and driving licence would guarantee a job right away, because drivers, if there is a shortage of drivers at the moment, will not even be able to pay for a single young person.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u207	Mr President! Mrs Myllykoski raised important points here, particularly with regard to this apprenticeship. I have met such young gentlemen who have difficulty concentrating specifically on theoretical studies and such activities. They may even be due to home conditions, i.e. they are so many people from poor conditions, and home conditions are unstable, and so the ability to concentrate on that theory seems to be limping. I have even struggled with such friends, directed that they are not thrown out of school when the theory is so difficult, and it has been tried to find a way to find it there. They are very quick learners of their craftsmanship, they do good work by hand, and above all they have a desire to work, so we should think about how we can still develop that apprenticeship system in such a way that such droplets would be used to look out there and get them a decent profession and they would be able to work, because they have desires, but the profession is lacking precisely because of the difficulty of its theoretical study and then because of a family lack of money or something like this. We should be able to look for these and get them, too, in this society, to do good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u208	Mr President! Mr Lehti raised a very important issue in my view. We must remember that while technology is moving forward and all electronic activities are of interest to young people and education must be involved in development, we must never forget that sometimes there can be a need for that pen and paper and you have to know how to write and count even the usual percentages. I will always remember what my first speech was in this Parliament on my way to 2011. My first speech concerned — it was about writing the number seven whether or not it should be a wuss, and then I said in my speech that the wuss should be able to write on it, so it does not go awry with the one, at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u209	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 9/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u210	Madam President! The report has been unanimous and has nothing to say about it. The EU will come and the EU will be said, and then we will have it given, and there is nothing wrong with this. It is good that we have regulation in the processing sector, because it is very good for the welfare of animals when it is monitored. But in my speech, I would like to point out that this is a strict formulation and only concerns pure-bred bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals and hybrid breeding pigs. I would have liked us to have had the opportunity at national level to include fur animals and dogs in this programme. For if there is a place where we are breeding because of the worship of the human eye, it is precisely in the breeding of dogs where we take place, say, glaring, very harmful breeding activities for dogs in the direction that we have breeds that no longer produce naturally. It should not be possible for us to breed animals in such a way that they are like the birth potential without the possibility of giving birth naturally, or that we have dogs that cannot breathe when we want some qualities for our own sake that please our eyes. In that sense I would have liked an addition and the committee explained it, but there is no such possibility now. This is limited to what it concerns, and that is the end of it. But I hope that in the future, Finland will be able to forcefully enter into this directive as well, so that we have domestic animals, specifically dogs, which would be included in the breeding register.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-31-ps-59.u211	Mr President! I'm going to go after Mr. Myllykoski now. I'm very glad you brought up this dog situation, too. Dogs are being processed, often so refined that there will be major problems with just breathing, as Mrs Myllykoski pointed out. In general, when an animal is processed too far, there may be major problems, and it is up to man to prevent such overbreeding.
