ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u2	Question Time will be initiated by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Ojala-Niemelä. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u3	Mr President! In its Government Programme, Prime Minister Sipilä's Government set the reform of the social and health care service structure as its main objective. However, the government's social welfare model has changed much from what was written in the government programme. Even in the Government Programme, this reform was staggered so that first the reform of the service structure had to be carried out, then the one-channel funding and only the last choice. Now the main role in the social welfare reform has taken on the freedom of choice. If it were not for the market-driven model of freedom of choice, which was stubbornly promoted by the Coalition Party, the whole reform of social security could perhaps be completed. Mr Sipilä, as you are now assessing the past parliamentary term, do you think that the government was in favour of taking up this exercise of freedom of choice, which is threatening to jeopardise the whole reform of social security?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u4	Mr President! Yes, freedom of choice has also been agreed in the Government Programme, and it has always been in our discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u7	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u8	Madam President! It is very difficult to believe, Prime Minister, that you are convinced that there is no real freedom of choice on the part of the government — even if it were a mix-up. Only one example of the risks that you are consciously taking in your reform is to ignore the EUnotification. You are in the process of creating a social model in this country which can later be overturned in violation of EU competition law. The Supreme Administrative Court and the Constitutional Committee have also drawn attention to this. Prime Minister, why are you still ignoring the guidance of both the Supreme Administrative Court and the Constitutional Committee that the conformity of your social model with EU legislation should be clarified? Are you not concerned about any claims for damages that are due to taxpayers for your negligence?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u9	Who's answering? Prime Minister Sipilä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u10	Mr President! This EU-notification, which is to be done, is required if this reform were to prohibit state aid which would distort competition. The Government has carried out a careful assessment at four different ministries: TEAM, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. And these assessments have led to the absence of a distortionary element of State aid which would require EU-notification. This is an official of the government ministries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u13	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä, the Constitutional Committee disagrees with you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u16	Madam President! Firstly, the government and the ministries will respond to those comments in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, including this EU-notification, and these are the prospects for us to have that response here next week in committee. In other words, we will take a position on the matter and we will also give careful reasons for why this has been done. We have also been in contact with the Commission at the level of civil servants, and the Commission has been told at the level of officials that they will not take this matter up, that they will not submit an application.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u17	Mr President! One of the government’s original objectives was to implement the cost savings of EUR 3 billion. However, it now seems that the reform will not achieve that goal of saving — I think it will be the opposite. Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance said in May that there is no intention of making savings, and the Ministry of Finance has also been told that this freedom of choice does not now bring those savings. So, Prime Minister, is there any point in making a model of freedom of choice that goes against the original objectives of your reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u19	Mr President! The representative has now misunderstood what I have said or wants to misunderstand. I have said that freedom of choice is specifically intended, as the Prime Minister said, for us to get people out of the queues in which they have to be today, to be treated more quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u22	The Green Parliamentary Group also had a question about social welfare reform. Representative Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u23	Mr President! In Sweden, the pursuit of profit by health companies is considered to be limited. According to Helsingin Sanomat, venture capitalists are now turning to Finland, where such a debate is not even taking place. There is a means of limiting profits and that is the definition of social services as services of general economic interest, i.e. so-called'sgei' services. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this would be one solution in which the EU's notification, as was mentioned, would not have to be done. At the same time, it would limit the profits of health companies to reasonable profit. Mr Orpo, why has the government not defined social welfare services as sgei services in its social welfare model, and is the government now going to change its proposal in this regard, or do you not want to limit the profits of health companies and safeguard the legal certainty of the reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u25	Mr President! We have indeed read very carefully that this opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also highlights these sgei services as an opportunity. But when we look at our provinces, it is very difficult to see, for example, that Uusimaa has a market failure in which these sgei services would be particularly much to be used for, so it is not quite directly to be taken into account, and that is why it has not been taken into account in the previous preparation. But we will also give a thorough answer to this response from the ministries. With regard to Sweden and also the good and bad news about the functioning of their system, I would like to say that we have also been closely monitoring what has happened in Sweden over the past three years, and we in our own model must try to prevent the errors and costs and the deterioration of services that they have experienced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u26	Madam President! Prime Minister, I was very concerned about your reply just now. You pointed out that you have not read the opinion of the Constitutional Committee or, if you have, you have not taken it very seriously. It is very clear that Parliament, in this case the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, must either deal with this issue of notification or then examine the possibility of these sgei services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u27	Mr President! We must now be very careful, carefully read the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which it also requires of us as a government. But then I would also ask the honourable Member to bear in mind that, when we are preparing this response to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, of which you are a member, we will be able to assess and also want to evaluate precisely this issue of notification, which also includes our previous position on why we do not consider that the sgei services should be used in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u28	Mr President! Let's go back a little bit. The reform of social and health services is needed initially because we do not have sufficient access to care for pensioners, the unemployed and the low-income, and basic health care has deteriorated. When we put it together, we would invest in preventive care and early treatment,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u31	Mr President! In this freedom of choice, the unemployed and pensioners now also have access to the bypass that has only been to the working population. In other words, a pensioner or an unemployed person is now able to choose between public and private services and in that way quickly to access the basic health care service. So this is the starting point of all of this. Lines shorten, equality improves. As far as the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is concerned, of course the government will take it seriously and answer questions such as the phase-out of freedom of choice, and the government in its response will then propose a model for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u32	Mr President! According to the information I have received, the Slovak State has previously notified its model of health services and, in fact, the procedure has been such that, when they changed their way of working, their way of financing and, in particular, the producer model, it was decided that the Dutch company has then appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Union despite the notification. Minister Orpo, how do you think on this basis, what would the importance of this notification be for Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u34	Mr President! However, that last-minute legal certainty will only come from the European Court of Justice,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u35	Madam President! I was at the market on Sunday at Hakaniementor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u38	Mr President! Now that Mr Zyskowicz has told me, I understand very well. But seriously, here comes the very well that the idea of freedom of choice is that basic services can be strengthened. People who are currently unable to have a non-public side will also have the opportunity to choose the social services provided by private or organisations from the social welfare centre and to get to a doctor more quickly. We will then be able to confirm that basic services are a priority, and this will hopefully also reduce the use of special care. I would like to say that, if we think about people, each of us wants more and more to emphasise our own sovereignty in that we can influence the services that we need and the freedom of choice gives us a good chance of doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u39	Mr President! This government's social mess has at least been bothered by the fact that the story of the government is changing day by day. A good example of this is the debate we had yesterday in this Chamber on the government's amending budget, where another EUR 100 million was earmarked for these freedom of choice pilots. Yesterday we were asked about this opposition property when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now told the government twice that do not go to the side of implementation until there is still any law in force — that is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said twice. Yesterday, ministers Orpo and Vehviläinen here assured us that there is nothing extraordinary about this and that money can be poured here. So, what's up today? Today, the Ministry has now announced that these pilots will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u41	Next question, the Finnish Parliament Group, representative Eerola.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u42	Mr President! The incoming EU presidency is Austria, headed by Sebastian Kurz, the sister party of the Coalition Party and the FPÖ's Strache. They believe that asylum seekers should not be allowed to apply for asylum in the Member State of their choice, but that asylum applications should be dealt with in centres established outside the EU, just as the President of the Finns Party, Jussi Halla-aho, has also requested. Similarly, joint return centres for converts from Europe are being planned, and these voices have recently been heard elsewhere in Europe. Nevertheless, the Finnish Government wants to create a kind of refugee vending machine and bring more quota refugees and burden sharing. Why, Minister Orpo and Minister Mykkänen, are you so dissatisfied with the value base of your sister parties, why do you close your eyes to the political development of the rest of Europe and do the opposite?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u43	Mr President! First of all, even if we talk about asylum seekers who have taken a negative final decision, every person's human rights must be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u46	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Eerola continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u47	Madam President! At the same time as other Nordic countries have announced significant blackmails on immigration policy, you, Mr Mykkänen, have regretted that the EU's asylum negotiations have crossed the line. The Swedish Prime Minister, Mr Löfven, has announced that the country has taken too many visitors. The Finnish government and part of this opposition want more of them. Denmark and Norway have significantly tightened their immigration policy. Sweden has announced that it will be making blackmails at the latest immediately after the elections. Why, Minister of Interior Mykkänen, do you not follow the development of the Nordic countries, why do you not follow the rest of the Nordic countries? Varför tittar ni inte på Norden?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u48	Mr President! We in the Council of Ministers of the Interior, together with Sweden, took the model forward with very much similar arguments the other day. A week ago, in Stockholm, I talked to both the Minister for Immigration and the current Minister for Home Affairs and Justice who was responsible for immigration, and they see that a common European solution is the only way to manage immigration, the only way they can safely abandon internal border controls. In any case, a European solution is needed and, in the next step, a solution is needed to replace this cross-border asylum seeker, above all directly from the target area. Sweden has also multiplied its quota of refugees to 5,000 people at the same time that they closed their southern borders and have really tightened their asylum policy. They see this in such a way that the refugee quota is the right way to help. I guess you're seeing things differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u49	The Christian Democratic Parliament also has a question related to this theme. Congressman Laukkanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u50	Madam President! This is a very topical issue, and the media have even used the name of the banishment centre for this new camp plan. I find it somewhat repulsive to think that Europe would be developing such a camp area where these distressed people would be put together. Asylum seekers who have received a negative decision would not remain in the country of application, for example by means of complaint procedures, but would be sent here to the camp. Germany, Austria and Denmark have participated in the debate on the European countries. I would now like to ask the minister concerned: What is the position of the Finnish Government to take this kind of project forward? Do you see that this planned project could also involve a security threat?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u51	Mr President! Firstly, no proposal has been made, neither in the Council nor bilaterally. It is a question of planning plans, a joint project between Austria and Denmark to develop this. And, as I said, the only thing you can see at the moment is that this is a very demanding exercise to carry out in such a way that it does not pose the risks that have been seen, for example, in the centres located in neighbouring countries with regard to human rights. At the same time, it is an objective challenge that we have more than half a million asylum seekers who have been rejected in Europe and that returns are very difficult to achieve. I am thinking of myself that if, after court hearings, a person obtains the right of re-appeal, then it also means that Europe must be left. Otherwise, our asylum system will collapse, and then we will be in a crisis, as regards the acceptability of immigration as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u52	Mr President! The political situation in Italy is already a cause for concern, even though a new government has just been established in Italy after almost three months of negotiations. The new government has announced its willingness to negotiate a better agreement for itself through the EU. It also wants to increase public spending, but not by saving. That's a pretty impossible equation for me. The effects have already been reflected elsewhere in Europe, especially in Spain, and we are already speculating with the new euro crisis. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does Finland react to Italy's desire to negotiate a better EU agreement, and how does Finland prepare for a possible new euro crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u53	Mr President! Renegotiation of conditions is not realistic; changing the Treaties is not realism. And when it comes to how Finland prepares for possible new external threats, we will put our own economy and employment in order. This also applies to public finances, and that is what we have done during this parliamentary term. It is the best remedy for Finland that if and sometimes when they are exposed to external threats, we will be stronger to meet them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u54	Let us now turn to the question of the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group. Congressman Arhinmäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u55	Madam President! As Mr Zyskowicz said, we were at the Hakaniementor on Sunday. I also met a lot of pensioners there, and many of them came, after meeting Mr Zyskowicz, to ask me whether Zyskowicz himself believes in those speeches, and the message was clear: knock down the mud. But besides that, there were other topics. In fact, the poor income of the unemployed and pensioners spoke, both at Hakaniementor and elsewhere. In view of how the income support of the unemployed, pensioners, families with children, is maintained, indices are used to ensure that price increases are compensated. Well, pensioners and unemployed people have long had to experience the fact that the statistics on consumer prices do not correspond to the everyday reality of the poor. As rent increases and the price of food increases, the benefits are worse than before, because the indexes that measure their level do not follow directly the things that the poor spend most of their money on. According to a recent article in Statistics Finland's Tieto & Trends magazine, between 2008 and 2016
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u58	Madam President! However, you also forgot from the list that the freezing of the index has affected, among other things, this medicinal cap, so that the amount which accumulates it has not increased but decreased. But not all government measures, as you know, have been cuts in the daily lives of the poor. Guarantee pensions have been increased, minimum daily allowances have been increased due to the decision on spending limits and the cap on medicinal products will be further reduced. The fact that this government is committed to fiscal consolidation and, as a result, an index freeze has been carried out is true. That is what I, as the responsible minister of that government, have done for me, and then, if the government comes to other results, that decision will probably be taken collectively in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u59	Madam President! Must be a little confused right now. Did the Minister understand the question at all? The national pension index is defined by the Consumer Price Index, and the recent Statistics Finland survey shows that the index of the lowest incomes does not correspond to anything that is consumption. When most of the money goes into rent and food and when it is significantly low in the consumer price index, it leads to the index not being equal to what is the rise in prices, i.e. the poor are impoverished because of this index, and my question was: will you correct this index? The second question is that you have actually frozen the index, which has been cut from all the poor, and you will do so next year too, and in that sense it would cost you nothing, unfortunately, because you have decided to freeze it next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u60	Madam President! Certainly if we are talking about the central government finances as a whole and the related index adjustment, [of the Socialist Group : No! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u61	Next, there are questions about plastic. There are two different parliamentary groups here on this issue. That, too, is a very topical matter. Swedish Parliament Group, representative Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u62	Mr President, ärade talman! Ministers Lintilä and Tiilikainen have argued that the use of plastic should be limited and that Finland should exceed the EU's objective of reducing plastic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u63	Mr President! The congressman's asking you a very important question. In this world, plastics are produced and used and wasted in nature far too much. In line with the Government's policies, Finland aims to become the leading country in the circular economy, and it also involves learning to use plastics in a much more responsible way. This is why I have set up a working group to draw up this kind of plastic road map: What are the means by which in particular the disposable use of plastics can be reduced? How can the recycling of plastics be facilitated so that it is easier for consumers to sort, export plastics to recycling and also find new recycling methods to make plastics much more useful? And the third point in this road map work is that particular development of plastic substitutes. Research and development efforts have been directed towards this, among other things, through these government’s excellent top projects,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u64	The Parliamentary Group of the Centre also has a question on this subject. Congressman Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u65	Madam President! Indeed, in recent years, Finns have been increasingly awakening to these environmental damage caused by plastic. Just as we heard earlier, the plastic that reaches the water bodies changes ecosystems permanently and can never be removed from it again. It is really important that, in addition to reducing the use of plastic, we can also replace it with new materials, and the Finnish bioeconomy and cutting-edge research in the field of new materials offer really good opportunities for replacing plastic. In particular, these sustainable and resource-efficient wood-based materials play a key role. Indeed, this is made possible by the bioeconomy, even though the opposition in this Chamber has effectively opposed it from time to time. My question to the government is: how does the government intend to act to make these substitute materials more efficient and faster for the market to replace plastic?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u66	Mr President! Indeed, in Finland several companies have been working for a long time to develop plastic substitutes. Of course, we have that natural strength as a substitute material for wood-based cellulose, from it further processed nanocellulose and away from it. The right way to handle it is to produce products with similar characteristics or indeed replacing plastics in the most diverse places. The Government is helping to boost the funding of PTT, for example, by directing Business Finland's funding to these circular economy solutions, and I really believe that we have every opportunity to be one of the leading players in the development of substitute, sustainable products, not only in development but also in placing them on the market. For example, this Finnish pancake bottle return system would have to be put in place right away throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u67	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u68	Irade the Talman! However, Minister, I would like to repeat this initial question because I feel that it has not been answered. Of course, the opposition is not against the bioeconomy itself. It is precisely here that we are trying to support the bioeconomy and take it into the future, not the past, and it is a major contribution to basic research in universities, research institutes. It does not work in such a way that the government chooses the winners, but chooses them on the market on the basis of good basic research. Does this promise, made by Minister Tiilikainen, mean that, in this context too, the government now promises that more money will be invested in basic research in order to make the bioeconomy really the future industry in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u69	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the quality of basic research, which is mainly carried out in universities, but also in research institutes, what is essential is, of course, that the government does not choose anything, but that we have the highest independent research and the highest education. Similarly, in recent times, when the government has made substantial, significant, in my opinion, well-targeted additional funds for research flagships and young researchers — ticket ships 50 million, young researchers 60 million during this term of government — the decisions on these funding decisions will be made, as it should be, in the Academy of Finland on the basis of peer reviews. Finland lives from research, we live from new innovations. This is, of course, a direction for the future that we must definitely invest in.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u70	Madam President! Regarding these plastic emissions and plastic problems, it has been found that the world’s microplastic waste from the world’s oceans actually comes from about ten of the world’s largest rivers. This reflects the fact that in many developing countries municipal waste management is not working, a lot of plastic is being used in vain, and that is why these problems come from very few sources. I therefore believe that Finland could be the point of departure here. Minister Tiilikainen has already mentioned our efficient and old bottle-return system. What other means could we use to promote plastic recycling, a circular economy for plastics, and how could we also serve as an example for developing countries to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u71	Mr President! I'm going to start here with more efficient plastic recycling. On many occasions, I have spoken to my European colleagues about the important objective of increasing chemical recycling in Europe, because it is unacceptable that even if plastic is recycled, the current recycling method alone will lead to a reduction in the value added of plastics in every cycle, we are making as if we are making weaker products. Chemical recycling would make it possible for us to obtain from recycled plastic products as valuable, as high-processing products as the original one. That is what we must invest in research, and this must also be ensured in a legislative way. As far as our ability to act globally is concerned, of course, there is a great interest in developing these methods in the world, but also within the framework of the UN, we can push forward work towards a global agreement restricting the use of plastics. This is why Finland is also working.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u72	Mr President! The opposition has constantly encouraged the government to make new innovations and introduce them, and the opposition is doing so even now that we are talking about plastic. Finland already has a huge amount of expertise, and plastic can be turned into fuels, heat, electricity, but unfortunately these too have been born outside Finland. I ask you now, Minister, when you talk about your intention and desire to promote the development of the circular economy, the circular economy is growing, but this Finnish competence is now flowing abroad: What are you going to do about creating plants in Finland that are able to process plastic and other ingredients and make them heat, electricity, fuels? What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u73	Mr President! Finland, hopefully to the delight of the opposition, has also earned its position as the leading country of the circular economy in European comparison. For us, the knowledge of companies that already exists today is truly comparable, and by its own actions the government has only wanted to speed up and develop the work of companies in order to create these solutions. I personally think it is good if the expertise of Finnish companies is also used abroad. Then it will help much more with the goals ahead. But what we are going to do: to that end, I have just set up this working group on plastics to draw up those short-term rapid actions and longer-term measures, and this working group's work has been commissioned for the autumn. That is what Parliament's representative Hanna Kosonen is drawing from, and numerous ministries and experts are involved in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u74	President! Bio-based biodegradable plastics are what we should invest in here in Finland. They decompose into carbon dioxide and water, therefore, are practically cellulose-based plastics. Of course, we must take advantage of international cooperation in this regard. We can't do anything by ourselves, but we can do a lot more together. Now we come to the question of how we are going to support this ecosystem of ours. At the same time as we have been cutting R & D subsidies, we would now have to support this new ecosystem of bio-based, decomposing plastics and how we will then get work and well-being in Finland. Here's the main question. I would like an answer to this: is the government prepared to make efforts on this subject in the autumn too?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u75	Mr President! In many places plastics can be replaced by renewable materials. For example, clothing containing artificial fibres: I hope we get wood fiber textiles to replace them. Plastic bottles: Hopefully in the next few years we will have wood fibre-based substitutes. Liquid packaging, food packaging require high hygienic quality. This product development is indeed being carried out, and fortunately there are leading companies in Finland here, our forest industry companies, many others who are doing this work to the full. The state, the government, wants to step up this by offering research platforms, for example, through our research institutes, and collecting that expertise through working groups and road map panels of this kind. We are also going to influence European legislation in such a way that, for example, this chemical recycling of plastics I have described can be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u76	Mr President! It's good to have woken up to the plastic problem. There is a lot of talk about the vast amount of plastic in the seas, but just as much plastic is found in our lakes. It was in Kallavesi that it was found that there were also microplastic particles. When we know that in many places drinking water is made from lake water, we do not really know all the problems that can be faced when those microplastic particles come with our food or with the water and get into people’s bodies. Much attention should be paid to this issue. It is good to look for replacement materials, but above all it is important to reduce consumption. That is why I ask when the EU Commission has now put forward a proposal to ban many disposable plastic products: is Finland prepared to introduce these bans faster than the EU Commission? The second question concerning the plastic tax, on which the bill in this Chamber received great support: is Finland ready to move forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u77	Mr President! That plastic problem in the oceans has been detected. Microplastics in both seas and lakes are also a major problem. I myself happened to be opening that event yesterday, where, for example, these new research results from Kallavesi were presented, that microplastics are also present in lake water. The question of what we are doing with that Commission proposal restricting the use of plastics: In principle, we support it, but there is much more to it than just bans on some product groups. There is a very wide-ranging survey of the measures taken to tackle the disadvantages of different types of plastics and to improve recycling, and thus continue to do so. Of course, each of these proposals will now be carefully assessed in the Ministry, which we are going to do. But in all of this, we would not have set up this working group on the plastic road map long ago if we did not want to be a forerunner, and we want to have solutions and not just bans.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u78	To this tax issue, Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u79	Mr President! I think it is an excellent thing that both in Finland and widely in Europe and the world have awakened this harmfulness of plastic and its adverse effects on the environment. Indeed, the most important thing is to reduce the use of plastics and increase recycling. These objectives can also be supported by economic instruments, i.e. taxation. I was very pleased that the Commission and, in fact, Commissioner Katainen tabled a proposal to clarify the plastic tax at EU level. This could be an EU-level solution in order to be in the same boat, so to speak, and to be able to move forward together. At the same time, however, we have also launched a study at the Ministry of Finance on the various models of plastic tax. It is administratively very challenging, but since its economic steering effects are so significant — precisely to reduce the use of its harmful plastic — it is worth trying to find out. Together with the EU Commission, we hope to find a working model that will work as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u80	One more supplementary question, Mr Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u81	Mr President! Plastic is indeed a huge environmental problem. If the current course continues, there will soon be more plastic in the seas than fish — quite shocking. In addition to ending up in nature, the problem with plastic is that plastic is an oil-based product and if it is burned, as is usually the case in Finland today, carbon is released into the atmosphere. We therefore need to reduce the production of plastics, we need to replace plastic with bio-based raw materials — in which Finland has a lot to offer — and we need much more efficient recycling of used plastics. Mr President! In order for plastic recycling to really increase, it must be easy enough, especially for consumers. So I would like to ask the Minister: how will consumers' access to plastic recycling be improved? This could, for example, be achieved by having plastic collection vessels in the yard of the building company, on the other hand, by ensuring that plastic packaging is recyclable in a uniform manner. What does the government do to increase plastic recycling in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u82	Mr President! Mr Sarkkinen is on the right track and in fact presents this similar set of programmes, which is what is requested in this particular map of the plastic road. We need to reduce the unnecessary use of plastics, disposable, we need to improve recycling and find replacement products. There is a broad consensus on this. In order for us to succeed and achieve those recycling targets, the separate collection of plastics must be increased, and it is clear that in the coming years there will be legislation that will require more of these collection points. There must be more of them, they must be close to consumers in order to make recycling and sorting easier for consumers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u83	Two groups still have a question to ask, and they are related to the same subject. Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, represented by Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u84	Mr President! I would like to return for a moment to that situation in Italy, which I find quite worrying. Although the government has now been brought about by various complexitys, there are still many question marks, most of all within the framework of the economy, but also elsewhere. Among other things, the new Prime Minister has stated that he wants to bring relations with Russia closer together and reform the sanctions system. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister: do you believe that this Russian issue of sanctions will come to the debate in the European Union, and if so, how do you think other countries will react to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u85	Mr President! That situation in Italy has been very unstable for a long time and has come up with messages which, of course, will only be clear along the way, which they will contain. These sanctions in Russia we hold debates every six months, and there have been previous speeches from Italy asking whether this system of sanctions is working, and it is good for us to ask that question at intervals. But I have not seen any slip in this common EU front regarding sanctions. We're all starting from the fact that: The progress of the Minsk agreement is conditional on the possibility of discussing sanctions in a different direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u86	The Blue Parliamentary Group also has a similar question. Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u87	President! Italy is now on everyone's lips and there are many fears in the air. I will ask the Prime Minister briefly when this has already been ignored: to what extent in informal discussions at the EU summits have you touched on this issue, the situation in Italy, and in what direction? Have you found any common ground?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u88	Mr President! Of course, discussions have been held in the corridors at various stages in the formation of the Italian Government, and I have had several discussions with the Prime Minister. It's a common concern. Italy’s debt level is the second highest after Greece, with more than 130% of GDP debt. Economic growth lags behind the euro area and also has a difficult interdependence between banks and the state. It's a lot of worry, isn't it? We have a debate at the June European Council on the future of the euro area, As regards the development of EMU, it is of the utmost importance that the rules are respected and the decisions taken are implemented, and this also applies to Italy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u89	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Council of Presidents, which is responsible for making proposals for the arrangement of sittings between parliamentary groups in the Chamber, proposes that Parliament should decide that representatives should sit in the Chamber by parliamentary groups so that, from the seat of the President, the Swedish Parliament Group and, from then on, the other parliamentary groups in the following order: the Parliamentary Assembly Group for the Coalition Party, the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, the Central Parliamentary Group for the Party of Parliament, the Business Now Parliamentary Group, Mr Paavo Väyrynen, the Parliamentary Group for the People's Party for the People's Party, the Blue Parliamentary Group for the Green Parliament, the Parliamentary Group for the Social Democratic Party and, on the extreme left, the Parliamentary Group for the Left, each group within the limits laid down by the Council of Presidents. There was no discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u90	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u91	Madam President! The special report of the National Audit Office to Parliament on the financial statements for 2017 and the audit of the Board of Directors' Annual Report is an important document. It relates to this report by the government, on which we have already had a referral debate here. It is currently under careful consideration in the Audit Committee. I think two positive things can be seen in this report. The second is, of course, that these economic indicators are on the right track. The Government's goals are coming true. The second thing is that when we have a strategic government programme for the first time, with five strategic areas and dozens of key projects and their own indicators, we can now really do much better to monitor the government's activities: how the strategy is implemented, what the indicators look like. In this regard, the National Audit Office notes that the Government's Annual Report gives a comprehensive picture of the state and outlook of public finances, and the Audit Office considers the description to be informative regarding public finances. The Audit Committee therefore called for this report to become more informative, even during the last parliamentary term. There has really been the progress that the committee has required, and I think that will also be clear from this. When we were discussing the government's annual report, the Prime Minister took the floor at the time, and I thought it important that he raised this government's annual report in that way. We in this House are really spending six months on the state budget, on the budget, but this accounts, which are very important for information and which it is important for the legitimacy of democracy to follow, want to be treated far too little. I believe that this improvement in the reports here, also in relation to this report by the National Audit Office, gives us the opportunity to hold this important debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u92	Mr President! The activities of the National Audit Office have developed very significantly over the last few years, in fact throughout the period since its transition to Parliament in 2007, or whether it was already before that. It was an important solution that the Agency no longer works under the authority of the Ministry of Finance, but is associated with Parliament and ensures the independence of the Agency. The Audit Office does excellent work on both these regular and other statutory tasks and statutory reporting, and its information has been very necessary for the Audit Committee to monitor the functioning of the Board of Directors and assess its operations. This report by the Government is indeed an important document, and it allows Parliament to go through the practical way in which the Government has taken forward the decisions taken by Parliament, including with regard to the budget. In addition, it is of particular importance to monitor, in real time, how Parliament's statements, Parliament's expressions of will, have turned into administrative decisions and how the government has taken them forward. After all, we have a rather large number of these statements in force for a long time, and we have also been going through it very carefully once in a while to see whether some of these statements have come to pass, and every year, when this annual report is going through, it can be said that some of them have gone far enough and that they can be dropped. But there is still a situation where there are a lot of statements in which Parliament has called for action by the government, which are several years old and where insufficient progress has been made. I think it is justified that, in this practice of making statements, Parliament expresses more clearly its will that, once the expression of Parliament's will has been given in the form of a statement, the government should take it forward without delay. It is a question of the credibility of democracy, too, that when the supreme state body determines its will, it is taken from the government’s side to take it forward. This question does not relate specifically to any government base, but the problem that Parliament's expressions of will may be forgotten does exist on all possible government bases of recent times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u93	Madam President! To begin with, I do not forget: I thought this last performance was good and wise. I, too, always respect the fact that the government enjoys the confidence of Parliament and not the other way around, and it is therefore important that we also be able to monitor the implementation of the statements. Similarly, there is another matter related to the budget: Parliament has been somewhat unhappy over the years with the fact that when Parliament makes its budget increases in the run-up to Christmas, then the next year the government will cut them off, and Parliament will again have to add these same items. There is a significant gap here. I agree, President, with the view that the Government Audit Office is very good and well developed and provides us with very informative information. It has been mentioned here that it has sometimes been reproached, for example, that the government has had a little too shuddering stories, but when you look at the past few days and this mess of social work that we have, there is no way that any government would get a shuddering story about it. In the future, we will certainly see colorful stories. In this regard, Mr President, it occurred to me during that Question Time that, when we are talking about, for example, the accounts of the state and these matters, we should certainly also draw attention to a rather strange point which has now arisen in this mess, namely this pilot issue. After all, twice the government has allocated 100 million to these pilots — first 100 million years ago — and now an additional 100 million is being granted in the amending budget currently under discussion — and, at the same time, the legislation on these pilots is not in force. And the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already said twice that this should not be the case, that money should be budgeted or piloted without such legislation being in force. That is what we have just done in this Question Time, and that is what we were amazed at. I therefore believe that this too should be discussed and that little attention should be paid to this in future, in relation to this budgetary practice, to the fact that it can happen in this way that there will be money for pilots, which even the Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not consider appropriate in this order. Especially now that this is so up-to-date that we currently have 100 million in the amending budget — just yesterday was in the referral debate, when the government announced that it was all right to say that there was no problem, and yet today these pilots were decided to freeze or cancel — is this not a bit of a social act of the day? Excuse me, President, my words, but this is what it looks like once in a while. I would like to express my concern here about whether such matters are taken seriously in relation to Parliament's budget and spending, even when this is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u94	Mr President! We must first thank the National Audit Office for this report and, overall, for the good work it does and how it will then also give us tools here to monitor the functioning of both the Government and Parliament. Then we must thank the government for including the reporting on sustainable development in line with the 2030 Agenda report, how it has been achieved and, more broadly, how we can promote sustainable development, although of course it is clear that, at this early stage, there are not so many results at this point. But then on this report more generally: it has also been said here that particular attention should be paid to what is being reported, to what objectives should be clearly expressed in terms of what we want to achieve and, above all, to what indicators will then be used when measuring whether the objectives have been achieved. This is certainly a point that needs to be considered carefully enough to actually measure the issues that are relevant to what we have decided to achieve and, of course, the use of resources: whether the resources are adequately and sensibly measured and whether they achieve what we want. Issues have been raised here about the statements made by Parliament. I myself would like to raise the issue of the planning and monitoring of ict projects in this country. It is often said — always in connection with different projects, although last in connection with these wars — that savings come from different IT solutions, digitalization and so on. But how can this really be followed? Here, too, attention has been drawn to the fact that it is quite inadequate at the planning stage and that monitoring is also very random. And it is quite often the case that, in fact, the project has not yet been properly carried through, when a new project on the same subject is already being carried out. However, when we often have a lot of hope that it is through ict that we get cost-effectiveness, that we get smooth access to services, that is something that we really need to pay attention to already at the planning stage, to monitor the implementation very closely that we can learn and possibly gain the benefits we always imagine.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u95	Madam President! Two things. The second was this pilot issue raised by Mr Viitane. As Mr Orpo, Minister of Finance, said just now in his own speech in Question Time, there will of course be no money going on until the laws have been adopted. That's how it was. That was very clear. You would think that something that was heard about 15 minutes ago was understood at once, but let it be said once again that you do not say this again the third or the thirtyth time. Let this be a correction. But the second thing I would like to draw attention to in this report is this special report by the Inspectorate. At the end of the day, we are talking about this management of state risks, government responsibilities and risks. It must be remembered that, for example, in today's shipping industry, when a shipping company orders a huge luxury cruiser from that shipyard in Turku or here in Helsinki, which may cost a billion-dollar purchase per ship, that means in practice that all the world's luxury cruisers, what the shipping companies do with the shipyards, are always made to provide this builder with its construction-time funding and thus these guarantee liabilities, which in Finland too over 20 billion are guarantees for various industrial projects, that these industrial projects can be financed by the state. Once the trade is in place, of course, the purchase price will be paid, and in this way the government will promote foreign trade in Finland and the sale of Finnish know-how abroad. Of course, we must pay great attention to these risks, and the National Audit Office is doing an excellent job here. While these risks are indeed serious risks, it is normal practice, for example in luxury cruisers or shipping shops in general, for the developer to take on the financing himself during its construction and then only after the sale will the purchase price be paid and these guarantees will lapse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u96	Mr President! Indeed, this annual report has evolved and is more informative and easier to read, but still not in the finish line. After all, the development work started strongly during the last parliamentary term. At the time, the Audit Committee chaired by Mr Brax, to which Mr Anttila was also a member, included this as one of the subjects of the report. Then, on that basis, Parliament made decisions in the form of statements to start developing this so that more information can be obtained in a useful form. Since then, several decisions have also been made in Parliament on this issue of risk disclosure that these risks should be better opened up, including all risks related to the euro area, to the extent that the Bank of Finland or the Finnish State has made investments or promises in certain loans to these countries in crisis situations. There is therefore a positive development here, but we are still in a situation which Mr Mikkonen mentioned earlier: these indicators are crucial, and we must first have concrete objectives which are such that we can see from them that there is a link between the government's action and that objective. Then the question is that the current situation in terms of the concreteness and the range of objectives is not clear enough. This has already become apparent so far, when this Government's annual report has been taken into consideration in the Audit Committee, so that it will also work with the next government, whether it is a strategic or tactical programme, or an operational programme, there should, however, be clearly concrete objectives expressed and then look at this instrument side in order to achieve a better ex-post evaluation of the functioning of the government, its success for both Parliament and the citizens, so work here will also be needed from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u97	Mr President! After all, the Audit Committee is the newest member of the committees, but I believe that it has already proved its worth. During the last parliamentary term, I was a member and, just as Mr Heinäluoma said, there were very important studies, such as on the marginalisation of young people, on mould construction, and then on the Senate property. There is, for example — if I remember correctly — a pontificate of paragraph 14 relating to what should be done about the Senate property or what should be done about the exclusion of young people. This brings to mind the question of whether the committee has now followed these steps, for the simple reason that otherwise these reports will not be of equivalent benefit. However, some of them have gone through money, and that is why I ask the chairman of the committee: at what point is the monitoring of the matters on which the committee has produced very good reports during the last parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u98	Madam President! This is the theme that Mr Anttila ended with, for Senate properties, I would also like to say a few words. The National Audit Office is doing a good job and these evaluation tools and indicators for the effectiveness of decisions taken must be further developed. One aspect of this comprehensive assessment is, for example, the opinions of the various committees on the budgetary plan. I myself am in the Committee on Administration, the so-called Committee on Police and Local Government, and the Committee on Defence, and there are huge buildings on the side of both sectors of government. I think the defense's real estate masses are the biggest part of the state property. I'm sure the police will be at the top of the line, and then the alarm centers and so forth. In these opinions, the committees drew attention to the fact that Senate real estate is responsible for its own finances and its own activities, but this is an overall assessment of the operation and economy of Senate real estate and, on the other hand, the state agencies, such as the police and the Defence Forces, are not in balance as they should be. The savings cutters involved in the budgetary plan threaten to eat, for example, the 50 million allocated to the Defence Administration in the next few years to virtually zero so that the financial resources raised by the state itself are eaten as the property is tilted. I would therefore like the National Audit Office to be able to take on such thematic assessments, referring to that evaluation work in the Audit Committee last season in connection with the operation and finances of Senate real estate. Such a thematic assessment could be appropriate, for example, for this entire central government financial framework, for all central government real estate assets.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u99	Mr President! Mr Kari raised this matter of Senate real estate and I very much hope that the National Audit Office will pay attention to the situation. I have been wondering if the target of profit is possibly too high. After all, there is a target of between 1.5% and 3%, which in itself does not sound hard, but the other side of the matter is always the way in which the real estate is assessed whether its values are also correct. For example, the Defence Forces currently spend just under 11% of their budget on real estate costs. Of course, it can be argued whether it is little or much, but the amount is increasing, and I am concerned about the way in which our internal and external security services are able to carry out their basic task, which is statutory for them if an increasing proportion of the money goes into real estate costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u100	Madam President! Just a brief example of the report by the Audit Committee during the last parliamentary term. Seventy per cent of the costs of the Sarka Museum in Loimaa were rentals in the Senate, and this is quite true. So this system is not something you can't compete with. The museum is where it's supposed to be. Since one cannot move to another place, the situation is that it is apparently possible to assign almost any kind of rent. And of course, the main reason is that the Sarka Museum was built and the cost of it is what the Senate wants for a certain period of time its depreciation and productivity, but that system was absolutely catastrophic. The same was true in research activities, for example, at the office of the Natural Resources Centre in Jokioisinen. In the rivers, 65 per cent were the rents the Senate took.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u101	At this point, let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u102	Madam President! Here, Mr Hoskonen, among other things, commented on my speech, and I would like to start by saying that, in my opinion, this is not the place for some kind of attention, given that yesterday, in the context of the amending budget, we discussed the fact that the government was budgeting EUR 100 million for these pilots, of which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already said twice that this should not be the case, so that this attitude seems to be very poor for the government parties. Yesterday, when this was discussed, it was precisely that poor attitude similar to that of Mr Hoskose that it is nothing, although it is budgeted that nothing is being prepared, as long as it does not happen that money will be spent before legislation is in force, that the preparation is all right in the opinion of the government and Minister Orpo. But what happened when the new day came? Today's news tells us that the preparation of these pilots has now been suspended, so I do feel that it is going to be like day by day, and the government's line is — I dare say now — really grouchy and unclear. In my opinion, this is also a cause for criticism, not only in relation to the matter, but also in relation to the clarity of this line. All in all, Mr President, we have talked about many risks, all of this, and I could say that this whole social package is a huge one, but that is all I have to say in this context. But, President-in-Office, in some previous speeches these challenges, the objectives and the need to have indicators have been well described. I think it is all right that we have concluded, for example, that such cross-administrative themes will be raised in the future, such as this sustainable development, which will be a cross-cutting theme of the next budget, as it were. I myself am the chairman of the Section for Education and Science in the Committee on Finance, and we have just delivered our opinion on the report by the Ombudsman for Children, in which we supported the strong development of child budgeting and child impact assessment. I believe that this was an important line from the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Finance, forward in good health. And these are all the very things that, when we get there, we need clear objectives and we need clear indicators that then measure how well we can achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u103	Mr President! Mr Anttila asked how the Committee on Audit intends to deal with these statements in relation to the statements made during the last parliamentary term. Among other things, this matter of Senate real estate, and then also these problems of moisture and mold in buildings and the exclusion of young people, were highlighted. I can tell Mrs Anttila that these will be dealt with very carefully in committee. In fact, today's meeting has been attended by statements under the responsibility of the Audit Committee, their follow-up, their follow-up and the decision to ask the Government for further information on issues where it appears that the results are not sufficient. The Audit Committee will raise this issue very strongly in its own work. This report by the government will then be evaluated by the other committees, and each committee on its own side will look at the way in which the statements have moved forward. This will then come to the whole Parliament next autumn, unfortunately next autumn, because now we are in a situation where all the extra energy and a little more energy has been taken from the various committees so that it is not possible to do it before the summer break. But this one's coming anyway. The Senate real estate issue is indeed a very big one. Now I do not have the up-to-date information so that I can only say with memory that yes, Parliament's comments on Senate properties over the last period have led to a very significant reform of the operation of Senate properties. There were many problems there, and there is little doubt about the findings of the audit committee during the last parliamentary term that these Senate property rentals were used as such as an extra cut, i.e. on the one hand, when there are various savings programs made in the state budget and then there has been a need to balance the budget, so last season the audit committee had doubts as to whether these Senate properties's time high returns were used as this kind of additional cutter, which means that money is sucked away from government agencies, ministries and various government offices. This led to this Parliament's position and then to the decision that such an external study should be carried out on the operation of Senate real estate, which has now been carried out and has been heard by the Audit Committee. When this is of interest to several Members of Parliament, including Anttila, Kari and Kaumaa, I would ask that this current situation in the development of Senate property be remembered for you so that you can see how this matter has moved forward so far. In the autumn, then, the Committee's work will be re-examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u104	Mr President! Indeed, there has been a lot of talk and good speeches about Senate properties, and otherwise, of course, it is important now for these security properties to go through this detailed study of how, in the future, the offices of the authorities under this defence sector and the Ministry of Interior administration can also be combined, and also state-run facilities with more stringent security criteria than those of the administrative sector in general, and how can these buildings then be brought under the same operator in other countries and indeed take these absurd income requirements away from these buildings, because in practice no other operator can use them, of course, also in relation to these warehouses, which then the Defence Forces have at their disposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u105	Then let's go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u106	Madam President! This intervention in Senate real estate: It is good to hear what Mr Heinäluoma, as chairman of the Audit Committee, said that this will be examined and this will be addressed. This is a matter of particular importance for the defence administration. There was already talk of how 11% of the defence budget currently goes to property costs. As far as I'm concerned, these costs are even rising. According to some estimates, up to 20% of the defence budget could be spent on buildings in the future. After all, this is totally untenable. When it comes to the property used by the Defence and Defence Department, these are the kind of property that cannot be rented from anyone else. There is no alternative use for these properties either, that they can be rented to anyone else, so this is by the State and by Senate properties, if you could describe very unfair and bad behaviour. We must be able to change this so that we can achieve the right level of real estate expenditure. In any case, prices are now constantly rising and this needs to be addressed. Of course, it should be tackled in such a way that it is followed up. The National Audit Office is for monitoring. Once these statements have been made in the past, they must be addressed by the Audit Committee, and here we are at the very heart of the matter that this matter is now being taken on the wallpaper. In my view, at the latest in the next government negotiations, this issue should be resolved in such a way that the cost of real estate is not the one that is now taking up such a large section of the defence administration, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u107	Mr President! It was good to hear from the chairman of the audit committee, Mr Heinäluoma, that these statements on the reports made during the previous audit committee are being discussed and we will then be informed. So this Senate property, which has been mentioned a lot here, is one of them, and very good speeches have been made here, and it is easy to agree with them, but then there is also this report on the exclusion of young people and then the study on indoor air problems in buildings. I myself think so, and I would hope that, when the Audit Committee makes these good reports and all the parties are involved in doing them together, they will also be used even more in the years to come if we do not get everything done in the same period. Now this government has produced its own Healthy Spaces report, which is all right in itself, and various studies have also been commissioned on the exclusion of young people, but I would see that perhaps it would be more effective for us to do so if, rather than ordering new studies over the old ones, we first looked at what is in the old ones and see that those measures are taken, rather than ordering new studies and reports and, in a way, forgetting the old ones that have already been done and where there is still a lot to go. In the case of indoor air problems, for example, there are very specific proposals for measures which are still to be made, and it would be better to continue with them rather than reinventing them as if they were the same measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u108	Mr President! As we know, the Audit Committee has a good chairman, and it was a great pleasure to hear that, as soon as this Senate property issue, for example, was announced as soon as it received its greetings, we heard Mr Heinäluoma describe what the Audit Committee is doing. It is a pleasure for me to be an alternate in this committee and, of course, to be involved in this work. President! To this end, I would also like to give my regards or wish forward to the head of the Audit Committee, which I had time to say to the President-in-Office just before he left for the second occasion, that I think it would be wise to consider how, for example, this pilot issue came up here — that is, the use of money in relation to when this sort of thing actually happens — is in a way related to what is appropriate, let alone what is appropriate in this pilot matter. And, President-in-Office, when you think of the fact that there is a situation here, after all, that there is a huge amount of work to be done on these pilots, the hours spent on it, the provinces, as it were, have been put to bed with them, prepared, budgeted and then suspended, and all this, it also contributes to the cost of money. That is also why I think this is a very relevant question. But with these, Mr President, I would just like to make a wish or an idea or a greeting. Why do you now want to appoint an audit committee to deal with this issue in some respects?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u109	Madam President! In this context, I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Heinäluomaa, for his good answer. The Audit Committee will intervene in an appropriate way and make appropriate comments on property ownership issues, Senate buildings and so on, and then, in time, we will have a good and detailed report on these as a basis for further discussion. I hope that this will go along with the process, so extensively from time to time the various committees will be concerned about this condition of our property property property and, on the other hand, about the price that will be paid for that use. With almost a quarter of the Committee on Defence here, including the former Minister for Defence, I know that there is an understanding in the Chamber that, however, there is talk of a very exceptional mass of space that cannot be moved for private use. There is no reason to change it, but it is also not technically possible when there are a wide range of explosive, pit and warehouses and the like. However, this kind of computational almost automatic splitting model constantly eats this real estate mass with growing expenses. This is where Mr Jarva and Mr Savola and Mr Mikkonen spoke earlier about this property and the threat that such an automatic distribution model will bring to the entire budget of the defence administration in the medium term. Although we speak of defence here with merit and in capital letters and in a good common spirit, I would also like that good spirit to extend to the search for solutions to get this property guillotine off the back of the defence system. I fear that in the next decade there will be a situation in which I mentioned earlier that the additional funds allocated to defence will then be spent on real estate bills, and that is not, of course, appropriate or desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u111	Mr President! I must agree with the criticisms made here during the debate that, in yesterday's supplementary budget debate, at least from the government and the government parties, these freedom of choice pilots and their additional funding, the doubling of funding to EUR 200 million, were considered very necessary, but we have now heard that their preparation has been suspended. This will inevitably leave the impression that the government does not know properly, or whether it knows at all what it is doing. Will these party meetings of the government parties, both of them, in the end of the week have an impact on this? Perhaps Mayor Vapaavuori’s criticism puts a lot of pressure on the assembly, which has been highly profiled as an economic party. I do wish that the assembly in particular would be able to push the brakes or actually cut off the game altogether. There are so many risks involved in this social reform that they would deserve far greater scrutiny than there has been in this Chamber today, but the debate is likely to continue during the spring, summer and autumn. The recent opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to a number of shortcomings, which are serious. As far as freedom of choice legislation is concerned, there are risks in terms of funding, patient information security, equality in general as regards this freedom of choice model, and they are big, really big issues that are still largely unresolved. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these savings of EUR 3 billion initially envisaged in the reform appear to be very over-measured. Whether they're coming at all, we don't know. There may be additional costs. At least Parliament has not received a proper cost calculation of where these savings would come from. To conclude, the savings potential of EUR 4 billion, which is now set out in this Martti Hetemäki memorandum, which is considered to arise from the development of information technology and the better exploitation of information, would probably also be realised without this social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u112	Madam President! No one’s assessment of where the savings come from and how they are carried out, however, has had such a big mood in this room that the estimates are a bit like shouting into the wind. Where's the $4 billion coming from? As a Member of Parliament at least, I would like to see something concrete for me, not just that if, if and if. In other words, it is hoped that such a unique and great historic change has been built, the economic impact of which cannot be assessed by a Member of Parliament. There is no need to put an Excel table in front of it, but something should be at hand. In that sense, there might have to be a little more. That is what I am concerned about and I hope that something else will be crystallized so that, as decision-makers, we can be more prepared to take this historic decision, which is also referred to in this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u113	Madam President! I have to say that the representative is very modest. Myllykoski spoke when he said that perhaps a little more specific when we talk about this war. Surely in this hidden message you wanted to say that this word “a little ” does not rest without what we need,but we do need a lot more important estimates. And when we are talking here, President, about the National Audit Office, that has given rise to a lot of criticism, for example, that these savings targets may not be achieved — and there is, of course, an exceptionally high degree of uncertainty in relation to the whole of society. It would in itself be an angle of its own story, which the representative opened up, that is, how Parliament can even think that it accepts reforms when we have so little information about what the cost category is. President! We have been in situations where a representative has to ask in an expert hearing if you could estimate to the accuracy of a billion dollars what a matter is going to cost. It's pretty amazing when, on many occasions, we have to guess here whether the result is a plus sign or a minus sign. Of course, this is also the subject of this debate as such, because these are, however, big accounting questions and financial items, what is going on here and what is going on in the future. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we currently have in the Committee on Budgets, that we are about to submit a report on the budgetary plan shortly and that we still do not have the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, for example, which they will not have — and they did not want to do so by the government parties — and we are in a situation where the future frame of government finances is in quite different proportions from that of social security. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for example, drew attention to the need to be able to ensure adequate funding, the adequacy of social services in the regions. Of course, this will not be the case. Now we are in a situation where we are nervous about every day, every day to come, how things are going to develop, but rarely have we really seen such situations, especially when we are doing the mega-class and millennium reform in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u114	Madam President! As a modest representative, I wanted to say that if only a little,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u117	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 4/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u118	Mr President! This activity report will contribute to the Council's important work on the protection and development of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and at the same time this report is a good account of the Finnish delegation's active work in promoting the implementation of the fundamental tasks of the organisation. As regards this year's report, it is precisely these basic tasks that must now be addressed. In its own opinion, the Committee draws attention to the serious internal and external challenges facing the Council. We are concerned about a trend in which the obligations of the Member States of the Council of Europe are inadequate and by an increasing number of Member States. The questioning of the principles and decisions of the organisation and its difficulties in its operation must not lead to a deterioration in its operating conditions. It is strange that countries that have specifically wanted to become members of the organization are now flouting in the implementation of the fundamental principles of the organisation in their own country. The organisation’s resource situation has also deteriorated since Russia’s failure to pay part of its membership fee for 17 years and Turkey’s announcement at the same time that it will abandon the status of a large paying country. His own publicity has been linked to suspected corruption in the General Assembly and to violations of its own ethical rules. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers this to be very serious and we have described it in our own opinion. Mr President! In November this year, Finland will begin as President of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. It is a six-month period, and we also consider this an important opportunity for the delegation of the Finnish Parliamentary Assembly to focus its attention on the presidency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u119	Mr President! Finland joined the Council of Europe on 4 May 1989 as the last Western country, six months before Poland and Hungary joined. Next year it will be 30 years since this accession. The year 2017 under discussion has been a very challenging year for the Council of Europe. Matti Vanhanen, chairman of the committee, has already described it here. The Council has been affected both by internal challenges and by the allegations of corruption in the General Assembly, by the resignation of the Chairman of the General Assembly and by the long-standing scarcity of resources, all of which are undermining confidence in the functioning of the organisation. Once again, the Chairman of the General Assembly is changing in the week after Midsummer due to the fact that the Italian President Nicoletti was unable to pass the parliamentary elections. The scarcity of resources is a fact for many years now, and indeed the situation is exacerbated, just as the chairman of the committee, Mr Vanhanen, said, the announcement by Russia and the declaration by Turkey that they are no longer involved in the funding of the same amount. Mr President! The General Assembly of the Council of Europe will monitor the fulfilment of Member States' obligations, such as the development of democracy, the foundations of a legitimate society and, above all, human rights. Each Member State undertakes to ratify and comply with the conditions of membership when it joins. The implementation of these obligations will be monitored on a country-by-country and thematic basis. The Monitoring Committee shall draw up reports on the activities of the Member States. That is to say, a report will be drawn up at certain intervals, and then, if necessary, a report will be drawn up on the countries for which it is necessary to clarify. Last year, Turkey was placed under monitoring and for the first time there are two EU countries, Poland and Hungary, on the agenda of the Committee, due to their policies. The work of the Monitoring Committee has been hampered, for example, by the organisation of reporting missions, which have not always ensured adequate information. In addition, more encouragement is needed to implement monitoring results in the target countries. The corruption report and the doubts it expressed were a very big blow to the reputation of the entire organization. The rules of the Council of Europe have been tightened up in these matters, and corruption of any kind is not allowed and should not be allowed in future. The Code of Conduct and Code of Conduct were further updated and updated. In a letter addressed to the Presidents on 7.5., the General Assembly called on the national parliaments, governments and political parties to take the necessary measures. At the same time, the Presidency has set up an ad hoc working group to reflect on the future role and role of the General Assembly. The next meeting of the working group, which will be held in the last week of June, will discuss rules, practices and matters relating to the mandates of parliamentary delegations and their possible challenge. The most important thing now is that things are in order and that we make sure that this does not happen again. In its opinion, the Finnish delegation has emphasised to the working group the need to ensure the independence of the Parliamentary Assembly and the maintenance of its autonomous status and pluralistic character. All Member States must respect their obligations as members. The independence of the European Court of Human Rights must continue to be safeguarded. The independence of the courts is one of the cornerstones of democracy. Finland supports the reform of the human rights treaty system, but at the same time we stress that the reforms must not under any circumstances jeopardise the independence and prestige of the European Court of Human Rights. Then we will also be faced with the end of the term of office of the current Secretary-General, Thorbjørn Jagland, in October next year. The selection process for the new Secretary-General will start in the autumn and the Finnish EN Presidency will start in the same way. There's a nomination, and it ends at 10. 1 January next year. The new Secretary-General will be elected by the General Assembly in June next year, and the new term of office will begin on 1 October 2019. All in all, the Council of Europe is doing valuable work. It is now only necessary to find ways in the future to ensure that the fundamentals which are on the Council of Europe's agenda — human rights, democracy and the foundations of a legitimate society — can be safeguarded in as many Member States as possible. Unfortunately, this is not the case at the moment, so there is a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u120	Madam President! Mr Anttila has made an excellent opening to what is happening at the General Assembly of the Council of Europe. The work of the Council of Europe is also very important for Finland, and we have a great opportunity, with the forthcoming Presidency, to contribute to the objectives that are important to us. But the situation is indeed challenging. It is no longer even a question of suspicion of corruption, but the corruption that has been going on in the Council of Europe for a long time has been flagrantly brought up, and it has also included a Finnish person, which means that this is also close to us. At least from the point of view of a member of the General Assembly of the Council of Europe for the first period, it has been seen that certain countries which do not necessarily share the same view of the universality of human rights are also using the General Assembly of the Council of Europe to promote their own objectives and, above all, to whitewash their own violations. I believe that this should be addressed more rigorously than is currently the case. A good example is that countries that are now also associated with these bribe scandals are also those that have suffered flagrant violations of human rights. At the same time as Russia has been placed outside the scope of the General Assembly of the Council of Europe since sanctions were imposed on them as a result of the occupation of Crimea, there has been an increasing number of speeches in Russia that question and maintain the meaning of the European Convention on Human Rights as a whole. Although the situation between Russia and the EU in particular is difficult, it would be of particular importance for us to be able to ensure that, for example, the European Convention on Human Rights maintains countries such as Russia. Of course, we do not decide that, but we hope to be able to facilitate the discussions in different directions. Another example is Turkey's involvement in the General Assembly of the Council of Europe at the very time when the amount of car riteism in the Turkish regime started to grow clearly and was this coup attempt that took place in Turkey, and it has been reflected in the Council of Europe in many ways. Finally, I would like to highlight the fact that Finland has traditionally had a lot to offer on these issues. One of the key issues on the permanent agenda of the General Assembly of the Council of Europe is the fight against violence against women and related work, and this is also, of course, a key line for Finland's development policy. Perhaps we should sharpen this role and at the same time draw attention to the fact that there is room for improvement in our own home base. Finland is still a very violent country when it comes to violence against women.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u121	Madam President! The Council of Europe seems to be in a very challenging situation at the moment. We have received information on this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr Vanhanen, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, presented these key points. However, one thing I would like to raise to the debate is what is mentioned here in this report, in the report, and then in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, namely the relationship between the Council of Europe and Russia. It is not good in the long run or even in the shorter run that the dialogue between the European countries and Russia is getting worse. On the contrary, it should be possible to increase the dialogue so that it is precisely these human rights issues which Mrs Parviainen referred to there can be improved and, in general, improved development and the security environment, all in all, these issues. I know that Mr Anttila, as Vice-President of the Finnish delegation, has done a good job in the Council of Europe, but I would actually like to ask: What can be done? How could Finland improve this dialogue? The fact that the General Assembly has decided to restrict the rights of participation of the Russian parliamentary delegation would at least tell me that it will reduce dialogue and will also prevent these problems from being resolved. Although there are serious issues behind it, very serious issues which we naturally do not accept, in relation to the events in Ukraine, the takeover of Crimea and so on, human rights issues and so on, without debate, without opening these knots and without these channels, such as the Council of Europe, the debate around their tables, they cannot be resolved either. What kind of discussion have we had there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u122	Mr President! We are talking here about the parliamentary meeting of the Council of Europe and how it works, but I would also like to remind Members of Parliament that there is also a council of local and regional authorities that meets twice a year. In principle, it has a very similar policy to that of this Parliamentary Assembly. Now that Finland will be holding the presidency for about six months in November, I think it is important that the Committee of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly and also this Parliament of the local and regional authorities work together to organise these events. We all have the rule of law, freedom of expression, human rights, the importance of the tripartite division of power, in particular the independence of the courts and this type of thing. Both chambers in the Council of Europe have also faced the problems of refusing Russia the right to vote, and as a result they are no longer participating in membership fees. The second is Turkey, which has moved from the role of the high-payer to the role of the lower-payer. All of this, of course, is a bit of a problem in what the Council of Europe will then focus on in the future. However, I personally consider it important that the activities continue to be maintained, that election observation is carried out and that these basic tasks continue to be carried out. But as I said at the beginning, I hope that when this Finnish Presidency begins in November, we will be able to work together to organise these events and also to maintain these important principles in Finnish society and debates.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u123	Mr President! More broadly, there is a situation at the moment when these international multilateral institutions are suffering or losing the appreciation and ability to function that they have had. Of course, it is extremely important for Finland as a small country that we are able to play an active part in these multilateral international activities. That is why, of course, it is particularly regrettable to hear that the Council of Europe, which is now, as it were, our own European cooperation body, also has so many of these challenges there at the moment, and also in European countries, with regard to human rights, democracy and the rule of law, these fundamental issues are not taken for granted today. It is good to hear that the Finnish delegation has been active there, emphasising these issues above all, emphasising women's rights, emphasising the exercise of freedom of expression, and these are things that must always be heard. They're not obvious. Perhaps some years ago we thought that it was a matter of course for everyone, especially in Europe, but when this is not the case, we must constantly talk about it. It is important that we have these arenas, where we can also engage in dialogue with Russia. At the moment, these international arenas do not seem to be exactly like the Arctic Council, where Russia is actively involved. However, if there is a need for dialogue in this world situation, where it seems that these alone-thinking leaders, whether they are in Russia or the USA or North Korea, only want to talk to one another if that is the case, but above all they do not want to involve the entire international community. I hope that during the Finnish Presidency we will be able to offer these opportunities for this joint debate more widely and to strengthen the role of these international institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u124	Mr President! I will continue with the rule of law. In some of the Member States of the Council of Europe — I am referring, for example, to the EU countries which have also been on the agenda of the General Assembly of the Council of Europe, for example, the situation of freedom of the media and of expression in Poland and the situation of the judiciary and, on the other hand, the policy of Hungary as a couple of examples — the challenge is, from the point of view of the Council of Europe, that the European Union does not seem to be able to intervene in these situations at the moment. Of course, the party system makes it possible that European parties may not want to go to other countries, so to speak, to accuse their own party comrades, and then we have come to a situation where all kinds of questions are ignored. I would like a solution to be found to this effect so that we can genuinely improve the situation of civil society within the European Union, but above all within the whole area of activity of the Council of Europe. This would be worth it for our presidencies, because we also have an EU Presidency coming up, to intervene and to think about what soft means could be available. This dialogue or lack of dialogue with Russia: In the second year, the Finnish delegation from the Council of Europe visited Moscow. We informed, of course, the Council of Europe in advance and had a debate with Russia on how to maintain dialogue in a situation where they are no longer present at the same tables. Well, this may not have led to any of its greater results, but at least the conversation has remained open. Perhaps it would be worth considering more of these now that our presidency comes, bearing in mind, of course, that we must stick to the common line that has been set and decided. And lastly: Mr Kauma, when you raised this municipal and regional assembly, I would say that it would be very important for us to increase its profile in Finland too, because we could also have a lot to learn about how regional governance is organised across Europe and in the Council of Europe in general. Especially if and when our regional model moves forward, we do have much to discuss this with our partners. And in addition to having this debate there at the forum, the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe and then this regional delegation should also have more discussion together. You've already started that business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u125	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here on the report of the Council of Europe delegation. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kauma for the close cooperation with the Municipal and Regional Committees in your time and for continuing it between the delegation and the representatives of the Municipal and Regional Committee. It's important because we work in the same body. Mr Savola then intervened in a very important matter by asking how we now have contacts with Russia. The truth is that the credentials of the Russian representatives have not been checked this year because they have not submitted them for verification and have abstained from the Council of Europe's activities this year, except for the Committee of Ministers in which Russia participates. I have been involved for so long that I remember when Russia was a so-called candidate for the Council of Europe. At that time, the war in Chechnya broke out, and it was then that we were feverily thinking about what to do now, because there cannot be a state of war in the future Member State of the Council of Europe, at least when we join the Council. But even then it was decided that negotiations should continue and that the situation should be monitored, because it is easier to influence the activities of the Russians, the functioning of Russian policies when there is a dialogue open. This was a very wise solution, because then the war ended and Russia has been a member of the Council of Europe. I personally assume that we will be involved in the European Union's front line on these sanctions in Ukraine, and then these solutions will follow with regard to the credentials of the Russian delegation, the Russian MPs. In addition to the loss of the right to vote, they were still deprived of the right to chair the committees in the vote, and this was the last thing to do with the fact that the Russian representatives made this decision that they were not involved this time. After all, the so-called ad hoc committee, a working group which is considering the future role and role of the General Assembly, is currently in operation and is discussing precisely how the rules, practices should be changed or developed with regard to the powers of parliamentary delegations. The aim, of course, is to at least create a dialogue — even if it does not come to membership at this stage, yet a continuous dialogue with representatives of the Russian delegation. The chairman and vice-chairman of the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe was invited last year when we had this OSCE 40th anniversary meeting, then immediately to the event in Moscow, where we were received by the then President of the Duma. That's what we said at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u126	Mr President! Mr Parviainen highlighted the importance of this cooperation between municipalities and regions, especially now that the social and regional reform will take effect in due course. Another issue where it is also important is the issue of minor asylum seekers. It has been estimated that during the crises of recent years, as many as one million of them have left for Europe, and many thousands, if not tens of thousands, are missing, nobody really knows that number, and in fact those who fall victim to it are the regional and local authorities. That cooperation is very important. Mr Mikkonen then highlighted the importance of this cooperation with Russia. This is indeed a core issue, because it has also been stated on some tables whether Russia and Turkey should be excluded from that Council of Europe entirely because of these very problems of membership payments, in order to be able to return to these original values which the Council of Europe has had. Fortunately, however, those speeches have remained rather limited, since we can probably all share the view that maintaining dialogue with Russia is the most important thing. However, there are so few of the different forms of cooperation that have been maintained at the moment that I at least acted in such a way that I try to keep in touch and maintain that Russia is involved there and not driven away.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u127	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Anttila for this excellent report, which reflects precisely what has been done and discussed in the Council of Europe with regard to Russia. And I entirely agree with Mr Kauma that this debate must be maintained. The fact that the head is closed to the bush is discussed only with the like-minded, not usually in favour of things, but in an open dialogue, and hence also in addressing them, is also likely to improve the situation. But it is good that this issue has now been discussed in any case, and it is good that the Finnish delegation is promoting this dialogue between countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u128	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 5/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u129	Mr President! As far as the OSCE is concerned, we need to remember its basic mission. Its role is to strengthen and consolidate European security, and the OSCE principles, together with the UN Charter, continue to constitute a fundamental and normative pillar of European security. According to the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the crisis in Ukraine was also reflected in the activities of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in 17 C.E. For example, the plenary session of the General Assembly was unable to agree unanimously to the final document after the vote against the Minsk Declaration by Russia. This, of course, shows that the problems are very big. But I agree with what Mr Kauma has just said in the debate that it is important for this dialogue to continue, even in areas where there is no consensus. In its opinion, the Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomes the efforts made by the Finnish delegation to intensify parliamentary cooperation on conflict resolution efforts. In addition to this dialogue and dialogue, the Committee stressed in its opinion the importance of the organisation's field missions in the OSCE's work. On previous occasions, the committee has already drawn attention to the security risks of personnel on the mission of Ukraine. There is still cause for concern here, and the committee considers it important that attention be paid to this issue in order to ensure safe and effective working conditions for staff. Then, Mr President, the OSCE and the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly have a substantive touch with each other and the Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomes the efforts to intensify cooperation and dialogue between the Finnish delegations in order to make use of this contact surface and ensure consistency of action and positions. In both general meetings, the Finnish delegations have to address the very same issues as the problem, and that is why it is important to step up this mutual cooperation here too within Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u130	President! In the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the words ‘The principles of the UN Charter together form the basic and normative basis The report states that the OSCE's activities rely on fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, such as freedom of expression and religion. When it comes to the report of the Finnish delegation, I would like to emphasise that Finland has a very active, enthusiastic and competent delegation. Minister Kanerva is the Special Representative for Mediation, and it can be said at OSCE meetings that Minister Kanerva is Mr. OSCE. His appreciation is enormously high and, of course, his expertise and extensive networking. Further, the activity of the Finnish delegation has been reflected in the fact that, almost without exception, the Finnish delegation has organised side-events during the meetings that have received a great deal of response and appreciation, and still Finns have been active in the election observation. I myself was with Mr Raatikainen in Armenia last year, and Mr Raatikainen was also with Mr Ross in Germany last year in the election observation. As Mr Anttila said in connection with the examination of the Council of Europe report, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will have to elect a new President. The same situation lies in the OSCE, as the Austrian President, Mr Mutton, also did not renew his membership of Parliament. And as has been said here in connection with the Council of Europe report on Russia, although there was no consensus on Ukraine last summer, it is a good thing that Russia is involved in the dialogue, and it is a good thing to stick to this in every way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u131	Mr President! Last season I worked in the OSCE delegation in Finland and last week I learned that I have been reappointed to this delegation, and I am very pleased about this. As Mr Kivelä said there, Finns have been appreciated there. For example, in the event of this takeover of Crimea and related situations, Finns were asked to take part in various delegations and missions where the situation was being resolved, especially Mrs Kanerva, of course, but also other people. We have always been appreciated for our neutral attitude, yet determined when some things need to be corrected. Mr Vanhanen raised similarities and perhaps some differences between the Council of Europe and the OSCE. There are very many similarities there, but one difference is, of course, directly related to security policy. I myself was a reporter on the Security Policy Committee last season. The subject was the updating of arms control agreements to the present day, when it was no longer just traditional methods of war, but the hybrid age. In that sense, these agreements, which will then be applied between the Member States, should also be updated, and it would also be interesting to hear how these reforms have in practice started to move forward and whether they are committed to them. And just as in the Council of Europe, I think it is very important that the dialogue with Russia and also with those countries of the former Soviet Union, which are therefore more than what is involved in the Council of Europe, is considered very active.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u132	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 12/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u133	President! As we know, YLE is a public service broadcaster under the authority of Parliament and under the supervision of Parliament. In practice, this role is carried out by Parliament through the Governing Board of Yleisradio, which it elects in plenary session, and it is up to the Governing Board to report annually to Parliament on the activities of the company. In this report, the Committee on Transport and Communications rightly highlights the importance of the independence of YLE, the independence of YLE from both political influence and influence, and the independent and critical consideration of the feedback received. From time to time there is a debate about what this really means, that the Finnish Broadcasting Company is subject to Parliament. Of course, the Management Board does not interfere with programming policy or editorial solutions. A short time ago, a study on the development of the management and guidance of the Finnish Broadcasting Company was published under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and Communications for 91 years — Ylehän was founded in 1926. This study by Dr. Martti Soramäen, a long-standing lavish, is an extremely commendable, interesting historical review, but, above all, a vision for the future. As a red thread, Dr Soramäki states that, at the end of the 21st century, instead of various parliamentary committees, Parliament's own-initiative parliamentary working groups were formed, whose activities have been very fruitful, the last working group under the leadership of Mr Satonen. In the past, however, these committees were rather cumbersome and the proposals of those who were by no means unanimous did not really lead to anything. When the Governing Board adopts the Yle strategy in the future, the Governing Board will have a better chance of decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u134	Mr President! When we talk about the operation of the Finnish Broadcasting Company and when we have just talked about the problems of the Member States of the Council of Europe, it is always good to remember that similar issues are always a threat in Finland. In other words, we must continue to be alert to the fact that independent and well-functioning YLE is also protected in this country, especially at a time when information influence is unfortunately widespread. I'm sure we've all come across it on a number of occasions. It is then emphasised that there is a broadcasting institution in the country which is capable of producing information that is independent and cross-cutting, despite the circumstances, and also of providing a comprehensive service to the various population groups. Its value is going to be very high. In this context, I would also like to say that we have recently seen worrying news about the direct persecution of journalists in this country. Broadcasters may not have been the only ones persecuted. We have several journalists in Finland who have been persecuted, and it is a question of finding a way in this Chamber to tackle this persecution more effectively. It cannot be that a journalist has to change the locality or change work because he is persecuted. I believe that this is a matter that requires greater action from the Parliament. In other words, while we take care of Yle's versatility and independence, we must also ensure that media freedom is not undermined as if through the back door by trying to limit the work of journalists. I think this is a timely phenomenon right now. Last but not least, when we talk about Yle in relation to the Finnish media market, Yle can continue to be a platform that offers different opportunities for smaller Finnish companies and media industries and productions, and on the other hand, for example, work done by Yle on the digitalisation side is quite progressive and can certainly benefit all of us. Of course, at a time like this when money is very tight, it is also important that we guarantee all Finns access to diverse content, and that is why, for example, free Yle Arena is critical to many people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-07-ps-63.u135	Mr President! It is easy to agree with these previous speakers about how important it is that we have independent YLE, and it is extremely important that this continues in the future and that we in this House also ensure adequate funding for YLE's activities. We already have a situation in many provinces where in practice there is only one media, one mainstream, and then the regional delivery of the YLE is the other that is able to produce news activities, for example, so that little can be done about the news. This is extremely important because we know that there is a constant struggle for different truths, especially in social media, and we have a lot of fake media that want to feed their own distorted vision. Therefore, care will be taken to ensure that the YLE exists, that it remains, that it has sufficient funding and that it is independent and that we politicians do not control what YLE can write or report. At this point, I would also like to thank the government for giving this additional additional funding to STT in its additional budget, because it is also one news agency capable of producing national news, and the more we have these independent news agencies, the better it is for us to communicate. In fact, I could perhaps say that, in addition to ensuring this independent communication, it is becoming even more important today that we have sufficient media education and a critical attitude towards the media and that we are already teaching it to young people and children in school. This is one part of our media field remaining independent and reliable and we can actually believe in that news and we know when we see who made it, that reliable information is available here.
