ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 22/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 27 November 2018. In the course of the general debate, Ville Vähämäki, supported by Action Kankaanniemi, has proposed that the legal proposals contained in objection 3 be taken as the basis for the discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u2	The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u3	Madam President! I would like to table the amendments tabled by the Greens in response to the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u4	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u5	With the support of Emma Kari, Ozan Yanar has proposed that tax table 2 be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u6	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 27 November 2018. In the debate, Ritva Elomaa, supported by Sami Savio, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u7	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 27 November 2018. In the debate Timo Harakka, supported by Riitta Myller, has proposed that the bill be rejected and has tabled the first and second draft statements under protest 1. In addition, with the support of Mr Peter Östman, Päivi Räsänen has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u8	First, we must vote on the adoption or rejection of a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u9	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u10	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 27 November 2018 The debate, supported by Mr Riitta Myller, has been held by Mr Timo Harakka from 1 to 9 against. In support of the proposal for a statement, supported by Mr Johanna Karimäe, from 1 to 4. Ms Sarkkinen, supported by Mr Myllykoski, on the grounds of objection 3 1 to 5. Mr Nylund Mikaela Nylander, supported by the motion for a statement of objections 4, Mr Päivi Räsänen, supported by Peter Östman, and Mr Ville Vähämäki, supported by the name of Kankanani, supported by the proposal for a statement of objections 5, and Mr Päivi Räsänen, supported by Mr Östman, and Mr Ville Vähämäki. a proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u11	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u12	Mr President! The vote on paragraph 17 was intended to 'not'situation'and 'and I think this is a time of multi-sacre democracy in the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u13	Enter on the record. — Let's take care of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u14	I agree with Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u15	It's the same mistake Lindtman made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u16	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u17	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u18	Mr President! I agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u19	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u20	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u21	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u22	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u23	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u24	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u25	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u26	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u27	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u28	Me, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u30	Congressman Magpie.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u31	There's nothing to fix.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u32	Then why are you standing there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u33	Mr President! I'm sure it's okay to stand here anyway, while a lot of other people are.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u34	Okay. But I still had to check. — — — — And then there's another one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u35	Mr President! On this point, 15. vote on Mr Haraka's sixth statement. The idea was to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u36	Thank you. Please enter all of these in the minutes. Indeed, as the representative said, you can stand here because sitting is sometimes bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u37	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 27 November 2018. With the support of Timo Harakka Hanna Sarkkinen, the debate has been followed by the 1st to 3rd motion for a statement of objection. In addition, Ville Vähämäki, supported by Action Kankaanniemi, has protested against 2 1 and 2. a proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u38	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. The vote will take place first on Ville Vähämäki's 2nd draft statement against Mr Haraka's 3rd draft statement and then on the winning report. Finally, we shall vote on Timo Haraka’s 1st and 2nd readings. on the draft statement and Ville Vähämäki 1. on the proposal for a statement against the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u39	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 27 November 2018. In the debate, Eva Biaudet, supported by Johanna Karimäki, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u40	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. Minister Mykkänen is here to introduce you. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u41	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The proposal therefore concerns those amendments relating to the Regional Reform of the Rescue Act which were not removed from the more urgent parliamentary procedure earlier this autumn. The more urgent detachments concerned, therefore, the prevention of oil and chemical damage, the construction of shelters and the training of rescue personnel and contract staff, which have already been presented to Parliament. This government proposal would introduce changes resulting from legislation on the establishment of provinces, the implementation of regional reform and the organisation of state authorisation, control and control tasks. Reforms would mean that the task that now belongs to the rescue service in the region would, as a rule, be for the province in the future, and the task that now belongs to the Regional State Administrative Agency would be for the national State Agency for Licensing and Control, i.e. the Creative Agency. The Civil Protection College Act would be amended to transfer the organisation of regional defence courses and preparedness and disturbance exercises from the Regional State Administrative Agency to the Emergency Rescue College — i.e. to continue to be coordinated by the State. The Fire Protection Fund Act would be amended to include the provinces among the beneficiaries of the grants from the Fund, based on regional reform. However, the Fire Protection Fund could continue to assist municipalities as fire stations remain in their ownership in the regional reform. The aim of the proposal is therefore to make changes to the constitution of the provinces in the case of the Rescue Act. It is also intended to clarify the division of labour between the state and the provinces in the provision of rescue assistance abroad and in the reception of international assistance. Article 27 of the Rescue Act The aim is also to define the division of labour between the Ministry of the Interior and rescue services in the provision and reception of international assistance and to clarify the possibilities for use of the special equipment and equipment acquired to provide international assistance and related training in the event of domestic accidents. Changes as a result of regional reform would not in itself have a direct social impact. As a general rule, the proposed changes are technical and are due to organisational changes based on other legislation. However, it should be noted that changes are being made in the provision of rescue assistance abroad and in the reception of international assistance in order to improve the capacity of rescue services to respond to various accidents throughout the country and to clarify the powers of action in relation to these large-scale accidents and specific situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u42	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u43	Madam President! The Government proposes to amend the Rescue Act and these other laws on the basis of changes in the constitution of the provinces, i.e. the implementation of the regional reform and the reorganisation of the state’s licensing, control and control tasks. It is therefore a question of a prior solution to this major reform, because we do not really know whether regional reform will take place at all. As such, the proposal is one of many similar ones, and this is quite easy to get into the overall picture of this great reform, because such details are lost in this alarm, once and for all. It is justified to be critical of regional and social reform as a whole. Its benefits depend on wishes, but the cost of changes will certainly come true. The reform now under discussion involves a revolution in the responsibilities of the rescue services. In part of the country, change can take place by remodulating the name and internal structure of the organisation. However, this is not at all true throughout Finland. If the rescue areas of Uusimaa and Helsinki are brought together, the result will be a vast and diverse whole on the Finnish scale, which includes not only the capital but also the countryside, not only the settlement, but also the oil refinery and nuclear power plant — this will be the attention of the rest of the world. But special attention must be paid to the new division of regional and responsibilities between North Ostrobothnia, Kainuu and Central Ostrobothnia. In particular, the current rescue areas have been formulated in accordance with the needs of the operation. For example, the rescue area of Oulu-Koillismaa is limited in the south-west to the municipalities of Lumijoki, Liminka and Tyrnäva. Its service production is responsible for some 385 main operations and some 380 secondary operations. 21 fire stations, located in accordance with accident threats and the needs of service demand, ensure rapid access to assistance. Behind the current border, a different type of river valley rescue area begins functionally. The reform would re-establish these borders and regions. Mr President! Talking about these map exercises may sound like a side story, but it must be remembered that it is a fundamental issue, a matter of security. It is also worth remembering what happened with the reform of the Emergency Response Centre. It was also to be merely a rationalisation of the administration, its exercise. The result was a long work rush, where there were problems in finding the addresses that were both in distress and in the working environment of the centres, and I think this work will continue. The only reason for this reform is to take on similar risks, perhaps even worse. What do you say to this, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u44	Madam President! As both the Minister and Mrs Tuppurainen have said here, this is a reform related to the forthcoming regional reform. Certainly here in Parliament, things should be put in order that decisions are taken first on the regional reform itself and then these laws which rely on it are adopted. Now that we are talking about regional reform and when Mrs Rinne was still in the Chamber a minute ago, I was going to ask Mrs Rinte what the model of regional reform is for social democrats. But when Mr Rinne has been out of the Chamber while I looked a little to the left, I will ask this question, for example, Mrs Viitanen, who has the answer to all the questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u47	Madam President! Representative Tuppurainen made an excellent speech there. I agree with this same thinking that we should not make these bail-outs go forward in the first-class wagon until the government has decided among itself to align itself with these social and health and regional reforms. I myself come from a region with such a regional model, for the information of Mr Zyskowicz and others. The rescue services are part of the regional administration in Päijät-Häme, and in addition to Päijät-Häme, there is another very large province in Finland, Lapland, where the fire and rescue services have been placed in the provincial model. The model itself is a functional, usable model, and it can be copied, but in that model the municipality also has its own way of directing the operations of the province through owner guidance. In this board of directors, which I have been able to get to know as a member of the Administrative Committee, municipalities have more of a role to play. When the minister is here, I would actually like to ask about this large sector of fire and rescue services, where the majority of the services provided by the fire and rescue services to Finnish citizens, from the perspective of the population, come through the fire brigades. For us city dwellers, this thinking must be a little foreign. We think that the fire and rescue services are based on the facilities fire brigades that exist in the cities. Of course, professional troops are contract firemen. I would have asked the Minister: How have you taken into account in the regional reform plans that the majority of Finns are still at the service of contract fire brigades? And have the fire brigades in this government proposal been taken into account in the way that it would be appropriate to expect?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u48	Madam President! I agree with what was said earlier here about the fact that legislation is now being passed here without knowing what the outcome of the government and Mrs Zyskowicz, for example, will be in the social and regional performances. I think you yourself said at the beginning of your speech that, of course, we should first make models and then put the application into practice, and that is why I agree with the question that Mrs Tuppurainen put to the Minister, what risks there are and what risks should be identified when we move forward in this order. I would also like to remind you of the emergency center reform. All in all, it was a tough one. In Pirkanmaa, Tampere, in particular, that happened very badly when the then Minister Holmlund wanted to take away the entire emergency centre. It was a miserable, miserable story with all of it. But, President, I will find something good here. It has to do with the fact that Mr Zyskowicz did make an excellent speech when he said to the person who signed his huge credit and said that I always have an answer for all things. Thank you for this confidence. You have correctly interpreted the social democrats in that we have been quite critical of the government's social model — otherwise we are not the only ones in this kingdom. When I go there a lot of people talking, last night in the direction of Tampere, there were questions as to where this government's passion for social work is now at its worst, when the situation is that costs, for example, are threatening to rise rather than be curbed, as is justified at the time. After all, in the Committee on Finance, we all signed a very critical paper on this whole, including the government parties, and it was stated that, for example, no cost estimates have been made and, in any case, these government models will very easily lead to partial optimization, which will only lead to an increase in costs — not to mention this market-basedisation, which easily means that there will be more social services being put in the category of cream peeling. After all, we have our own views on the regional model. Mrs Zyskowicz will hear them and she has already heard them many times so that I appreciate the fact that you still want to discuss them and to hear them, and I am sure we will continue to discuss them. Indeed, in this context, I would like to say what Mrs Tuppurainen said at the beginning, that the order in which we are now marching here is not right in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u49	Madam President! It is good that the legislation is being reformed and that the administration is being reformed. It is clear that when the world changes, we need to change along with it and bring the legislation up to date. It is difficult for me to understand, particularly in this speech by the Social Democrats, the fear that the power of decision will come closer to the people. Apparently, that ghost of a society from above still walks with you long and gloomy. If the powers of decision are transferred from the ministry to the provinces, I see no harm in it. Should we then go into that extreme system, as in some countries, that one person decides there in the presidential palace and that everyone obeys it? These examples could also be listed here, but I will leave it until the next time. Therefore, when democratically elected decision-makers decide their own affairs in the regions, it is certainly the best and most transparent system, because that is where the decision-maker is in the midst of people and receives constant feedback. In such a centralised system, where decisions are taken far away, as in the Ministry, the ordinary citizen will never even see those decision-makers. Now you are beginning to fear that the power of decision will come to the provinces. I am a little surprised at your view of the matter, but at the same time I thank you — this was for the people to know how you feel about local democracy. Think about Switzerland, where this has been taken even further. There cantons are completely independent and, in accordance with their system, for example, they will vote on very small issues through a referendum. That's all. If a new delivery car is being purchased in a village, even now, there will be a referendum on whether the game is what it is to be driven with for the next few years. Democracy has been taken so far there, and we here are now afraid that democracy and decision-making will be brought to the provinces close to the people. I cannot understand this, but I do not need to understand it — I am just wondering and at the same time I thank the demersals for the fact that this came to light.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u50	Mr President! I am not in the committee on this bill, but this is an important bill in itself. However, I would like to deny this in such a way that it is important for all these administrative reforms to note also the localities and regions that unnecessary centralisation in public administration is not done. Mr Zyskowicz asked very well what the regional model of the SDP is or on what basis these services are being built. After all, this regional model is a European model, a democratic model that is widely used. In reality, even if the municipal base is insufficient and a democratic model is needed, there is practically no model other than the regional model. The provinces are often ridiculed, and I wonder, but what is the model of the SDP in these administrative reforms? I think that model is a big blow, and there is no one of its own in the end. There is no other alternative to this, unless there is really such a thing as a municipal model among giant cities or large cities, which then ignores half of Finland. That I would also like to hear what the SDP really thinks about this provincial government. Do you have a choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u51	Madam President! In this legislative reform, general provisions on the general administrative implementation of the rescue services and the status of personnel are included in the Regional Law. The financing of rescue services is determined by the Regional Finance Act. The aim is also to clarify the division of labour between the state and the provinces in the provision of rescue assistance abroad and in the reception of international assistance, so that the law clearly defines the division of labour between the Ministry of the Interior and rescue services in the tasks related to the provision and reception of international assistance. According to the proposed amendment to the Rescue Act, the province would contribute to the maintenance of the preparedness required to receive rescue assistance abroad and international assistance under the Rescue Act. The ability to provide rescue assistance abroad would be based on the expertise, preparedness and service level of the regions in accordance with their national risks. In recent years, manna and sports hall accidents show that the collapse of buildings is not only in foreign earthquakes and other natural disasters, but also in the ability to clean up wrecks is part of the service level required of each region. The regions shall be responsible for the level of service at risk and for the costs incurred in carrying it out. For assistance abroad, special facilities, equipment and equipment created and acquired by the State and at the expense of the State are also available to the provinces for domestic rescue operations required by accident situations on the same basis as their own resources. The special preparedness of international rescue operations would thus support the domestic capacity of the regional rescue services. There will be clear synergies. Mr President! These changes would have no direct economic impact on households. As a general rule, the proposed changes are technical and are due to organisational changes based on other legislation. I'm in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u52	Mr President! To Mr Hoskonen, who I am no longer seeing here, I would have simply said that we were not afraid that decision-making would come close to a person — on the contrary, we always support that — but what we have been concerned about, such as the entire Committee on Finance, for example, is that, when the regions were set up with these resources and the decision-makers in the province, tasks would be set up, but there would be no possibility, for example, of taxing or financing, so easily that the future provincial decision-makers would be in a situation where they would be forced to increase the customer charges very rapidly, or that, in any case, social and health services would suffer, for example, life services, employment services for people. This criticism has not been made by the Social Democrats alone, but by the entire Committee on Finance, for example, in its own report. I went over these threats, which should be noted. We have also said that in this model, which is now under development, we are in a situation where, for example, the Tampere region has had a very successful, good employment experiment and now it cannot be continued, and it should definitely have been possible to continue in this situation, to give it more time. It's not gonna happen for some reason. For that, I have sincerely thanked Mr Sato before in this Chamber for being active and for taking the initiative to continue this experiment, and here we have been on the same track.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u53	Mr President! With regard to those comments: I was thinking of sticking more to this rescue department in my speech. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u54	Madam President! The Rescue Department is an important part of our entire rescue effort if we consider these patterns of cooperation with that emergency care and emergency centre and how it works in the whole country, while including the Border Guard and the Defence Forces and that police cooperation pattern in all major events. These when considered with the friends working at that rescue department, what would make sense here, they presented such a model then that these rescue areas should be divided into five, the whole of Finland into five areas, they would be run from one place, so that this cooperation pattern and the certainty of the operation would be better worked out. I would like to ask the Minister: has this division of regions been considered and discussed, is there any use in this kind of activity?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u55	Representative Talja, followed by Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u56	Mr President! I'll continue to think of Mr. Sem. If the emergency care system operates in a coordinated manner in five areas of Finland and in the same way is the case with emergency services, there is always a seam point. The fact that the number of rescue services will then be reduced to the number of provinces in the future will, on the other hand, provide the co-ordination support. And in fact it will also bring coordination with these major areas, so that cooperation between emergency services and emergency care, both to optimise the use of resources and then to prepare for exceptional situations, to expand them, is absolutely essential for us citizens to be able to live safely there at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u57	Congressman Tolppanen would still be there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I am, of course, most concerned, as a person in the province, about what really happens when it comes to the first response and how it comes to this reform, because in rural areas the voluntary fire brigades — or contract fire brigades — handle a very large proportion of all the alarms coming in the region. The second is that, if we talk more about what should be in the rescue service, we have a very large number of municipalities and such buildings, housing houses, where there is no protection for people if something happens. Good old bomb shelters are closed, and there are no shelters for the population where people are being taken. On top of that, I would also like some kind of reference to what is 72 hours of security of supply. I myself have taken a long defence course and asked about this several times there. What does that mean? Even today, I do not know what it means, what it includes, how often stocks are kept, where stocks can be filled, what it requires of the citizen. We talk about things to people and we create a sense of security, but we do not tell how that security is achieved. When we talk about the rescue service, I think this too is something that should be known to every person. This does not mean that we must have an outside threat or someone else in the country. It is enough, for example, to have a fire in a tyre shop in the area. When I am a journalist in my former profession, I remember very well when a whole section of the town was evacuated in Pietarsaari because of the fire in the warehouse. For example, these are such things. If you think of people who live there at home and who have asthma, for example, or who do not get anywhere from there, then there should be room for home. And I would hope that there will also be an improvement in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u59	Mr President! Thank you for your constructive remarks from all over the hall. In general, the question of rescue reform was raised as to how this reform, which is linked to regional reform, could have an impact. As far as I am concerned, it is genuinely an opportunity to clarify responsibilities and management in such a way that the responsibility for implementation lies more clearly with the regional, elected province, and there is also a face-to-face number that is responsible — the provincial government — for how much resources are used, how they are distributed. At the moment, the rescue service is most often divided between tens of municipalities, which may be unclear to the citizen. On the other hand, the control becomes clearer in that most of the tasks of the Regional State Administrative Agencies are transferred directly to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior, which already has some of this role, is more clearly coordinating national activities, thus actually simplifying the system. Secondly, however, the geographical changes in the rescue service are smaller and easier than in many other areas. We currently have 19 rescue services operating on the host model, two regional joint municipal authorities plus then North Karelia’s Siun sote, a slightly different type of joint municipal assembly model, and Uusimaa is really going to have a significant merger. In addition, the river valley and the Oulu-Koillismaa facilities will be merged. The river valley is very small, and here it has been considered that it makes sense to have one plant. But otherwise the present structure itself will remain geographically. The essential question that more of you have drawn attention to here is the organisation of emergency care and emergency response and, also in connection with this regional reform, the fact that those responsible for organising social and health services and those responsible for organising rescue services within the province will work together and ensure that the capacity of rescue services to organise emergency care, first response will be utilised in the future. And perhaps even in those provinces where it has not been the organiser of emergency care so far, it could be, because the model has been very good everywhere where it has been implemented. This also requires an increase in skills. In other words, rescue training is currently being reformed so that emergency care can bring all professional rescuers closer to the level of care and thus ensure that rapid, high-quality first response even when the rescuer is the first to arrive. In this regard, Mr Semi referred in particular, as it were, to this broader question of leadership and contacts with these five areas of emergency care and special tasks. We also intend to organise five major areas in the rescue service, which constitute situation centres, and to improve this situation centre management in the event of a more significant event, and to give one of the situation centres national coordination tasks, which is certainly part of this reorganisation with the regional reform, and to give it a better chance. The population shelters, Mr Tolppanen, have by no means been forgotten. They still have obligations, and we may have the best capacity in the world at international level. And the household allowance, 72 hours, is a very important thing in itself, yes. It has nothing to do with this bill, but otherwise we would be happy to communicate it together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u60	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u61	Mr President! We therefore propose that the processing of personal data at the Border Guard should be regulated by a new law which would replace the law of the same name in force — in a very many respects symmetrical in its content and, in fact, in the need for reform, as well as the law on police personal data, which will be the next item in the referral debate in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The aim is therefore to bring the processing of personal data at the Border Guard in line with the EU's new data protection legislation, and the Border Guard's Personal Data Act complements the general data protection legislation in this respect, namely the Data Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Act and the Criminal Data Protection Act. The structure of the law will be clarified and the regulation simplified. After all, a fundamental shift in Finnish data protection regulation in all administrative sectors is the move from regulation of individual registers to regulation based on the purpose of the data, so in this case, the Border Guard should process personal data in accordance with its tasks regardless of the registers. The purpose of the proceedings is based on the statutory tasks of the Border Guard, which are not, in themselves, being extended, namely border control, crime prevention, military justice and various supervisory tasks. The law would improve the ability of the Border Guard to use the information obtained with the existing powers to prevent, detect and investigate criminal offences investigated by the Border Guard. The changes would also be similar to those in the Police Personal Data Act. Like the law in force, the law would also lay down the rights of the Border Guard to information in the performance of its statutory tasks and the obligations of carriers to provide the Border Guard with passenger and crew information. In this context, the regulation of the Maritime Rescue Act would also be reviewed. The background is therefore the European Union's reformed data protection legislation, and Parliament has also required in 2013 that the structure and content of the Border Guard's Personal Data Act be clarified in the same context as the reform of the Police Personal Data Act, and that the law should be eliminated, for example, from overlapping with other personal data legislation. So this is what Parliament wants to do. The border guard's operating environment can also be said to have changed, particularly as regards the environment in which crime prevention operates, which also requires amendments to the processing of personal data so that the information obtained through the powers can be used more effectively for the purpose of security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u62	Madam President! According to the Government's proposal, the new law to be adopted would in future provide, instead of individual registers and information systems, for purposes for which the Border Guard may process personal data. The purpose of the processing of personal data would be, in line with the law in force, border control, the maintenance of border security and border order, the investigation of offences under investigation by the Border Guard and the maintenance of public order and security, the prevention and detection of offences under investigation by the Border Guard, the administration of military law and other tasks assigned to the Border Guard, such as different supervisory tasks. This proposal must be supported — if it is to be considered, bearing in mind that sensitive personal data should be processed with particular care and the powers of the authorities handling them should be as precise and clear as possible. Madam President! The Government's proposal on the processing of personal data at the Border Guard and some other authorities is the result of a long chain. National legislation must now be decided at the end of its chain. The laws put forward safeguard people's security and thus highlight the level of protection of fundamental rights. They raise fundamental rights. Our own knowledge and our own lives are better in our own hands. Thus, the outcome of the legislative changes is more individual security and more freedom. However, the beginning of the reform is not a national one. It's European. It is a direct result of the European Union Data Protection Regulation. So, once again, the EU is improving people's rights and influence in its own life. That is what I would like to say in this context and to remind you once again that the next time we hear a flat-out parable of the EU as a former Soviet Union, it is good to bear in mind that the EU is not a prison for the peoples, nor a restriction of human rights, but a sensible cooperation for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u63	Madam President! This, as in other laws relating to the processing of personal data, must, of course, be precise with the limitations and ensure that information security is implemented in all circumstances. The processing of sensitive information must be limited to a sufficient degree by means of provisions so that only the necessary legal level of regulation is... only necessary... only the necessary information is entered into and the legal level of regulation is sufficient. - I'm sorry, I was a little squabbling in my words, the device broke down, it fits the security issues. [ The speaker points to the mobile device in front of you]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u64	Madam President! I often begin when we talk about internal security, why not a little about foreign and security policy, that I have been allowed to be on the Administrative Committee since 2011, and, of course, a lot has happened around the world during that time. And now it is easy to forget that some years ago we were even discussing the abolition of the visa limit between the countries of Finland and Russia. Today, this type of political opening has no longer taken place. And, as Mrs Tuppurainen wisely said, EU regulation also brings us positive things. Of course, the talk of prisons and other peoples should be forgotten. Of course, we must also be critical of the legislative projects that are being carried out in the EU, also look through national issues and national spectacles and then correct national legislation when necessary. And here one of the key issues is this data protection aspect. I think it is extremely important — and, as Mrs Parviainen said, I am sure that the committee will also go through it — how this data protection aspect works. But I have always considered it important that the exchange of information between the authorities should also work. If there are any problems with the Finnish-Russian border that I mentioned earlier — as was the case some years ago with busloads and a few years ago there was a ship up to the Saimaa Canal where there were illegal people without proper papers crossing the border — then we should also have the ability of the authorities to exchange information between the various authorities. One form of crime may turn out to be a much larger case after a minor investigation. It may not always be just smuggling, it may be trafficking in human beings. It may be that matters have wider roots, such as matters of national defence. In this case, we must ensure that this strict regulation, which is justifiable from the point of view of citizens' fundamental rights, must not, however, limit the ability of public authorities to provide citizens with the security service that our authorities can do with great cooperation. So not too many silos, but there must also be doors between silos and, above all, windows open.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u65	Mr President! In Mr Kari's speech, when it came to this border with Russia, it is true that there will be undesirable phenomena across its border and those things will of course have to be controlled. It is the external border of the Schengen area. But, on the other hand, a very large proportion of the undesirable phenomena that occur in our country when coming from abroad also come from the EU with freedom of movement. In other words, it would be important to have control over the paperless people crossing the Russian border, as well as the undocumented people from Europe and elsewhere, the movements of crime and the like. In other words, there must also be no barriers to the exchange of information so that these criminal phenomena are not caught when these people and things are detected at the border.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u66	And then, Minister, please, no more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u67	Mr President! In fact, it is easy to agree with everything that the honourable Members are very familiar with in this Chamber that it is natural that two important fundamental rights relating to free democracy in Finland should be considered here, on the one hand, the right to the privacy of personal data and, on the other hand, the fact that the authorities have sufficient tools to safeguard our security. That is the basis of the whole regulation. Representative Parviainen referred to the storage threshold, the definition of access rights in the police — or at the Border Guard in this case — and the log data. This in itself brings regulation to a number of issues that have now been somewhat unregulated or, as it were, established through precedents. There will be a clear deadline for recording, six months, after which data will have to be destroyed if they are not clearly related to a specific criminal matter that is open. Access rights will be more clearly restricted, the storage of log data will be regulated, and of course everything will require these to be implemented clearly, and I believe that this will also happen. The exchange of information between authorities is very important both within the country and with the authorities of other countries. I was in Moscow just two weeks ago, and we agreed to further strengthen cooperation on this side, and I strongly agree with that need. With regard to the undocumented, to which Mr Mäkelä referred, there is, in itself, a Eurodac regulation in the EU regulation, the sharing of flight data and so on, which can be coordinated with the Data Protection Regulation, and it has actually taken quite a big leap in recent years, precisely because of the fact that information is moving and, at least, because of the lack of information, illegal entry would not become more common.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u68	Mr. Kari, Mr. Mika.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u69	Madam President! I would also like to acknowledge Mr Mykkänen's comment on one aspect of the cross-border ministerial debate on these issues. The Minister has also kept the committee properly informed of these discussions, not, frankly, but, in a way, of this importance of exporting and getting the message. In this context, I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister for informing the appropriate committee of the way in which these issues can be properly, intelligently and proactively discussed at higher levels. We had a different situation some years ago. There were border crossings in northern Finland, and the situation did not seem to be on this side of the border, if not on the other side of the border, but I hope that the Minister will continue to act in the same responsible way as he has done so far when he talks at the higher national level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u70	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u71	Mr President! The proposal proposes a new law on the processing of personal data in the police service, the Police Personal Data Act, and the law would replace the applicable law of the same name. In addition, the Government's proposal includes proposals to amend 25 other laws. Technical changes to these laws are mainly proposed in relation to legal references. The aim of the proposal is to bring the processing of police personal data into line with the new EU data protection legislation and, as with the Border Guard, the Police Personal Data Act complements the general data protection legislation. In other words, the law in force provides for national police information systems and other police personal data registers. As with the Border Guard, the new law would no longer be tied to individual registers or information systems, but to the purposes for which the police use the information within their statutory competence. These purposes would therefore be based on statutory tasks such as the prevention, detection and detection of criminal offences and the maintenance of public order and security. Detailed and difficult-to-maintain lists of data content in the existing law would also be abandoned in this context. The content of the necessary personal data would be regulated in a simpler and more time-consuming manner in the role of the police. In addition to processing purposes and data content, the law would provide for national and international exchange of information by the police, data retention periods, the exercise of the data subject's right of inspection, and restrictions necessary for the duties of the police. The law would also continue to provide for the processing of personal data of the protection police, but this set of provisions for the protection police will be compiled on its own separate account. The new Police Personal Data Act would not in itself extend police data acquisition rights to the present, but would take place within the existing competences. These powers are laid down in the law on pre-trial investigations, the law on coercive measures, the law on police and other legislation on police duties. This would enhance police access to personal data obtained with existing powers. For example, the police should record personal data obtained by their powers for a maximum period of six months in order to assess the necessity and relevance of such data for the tasks of the police before reaching a conclusion on their purpose. In particular, information relating to organised crime could be used, subject to certain limitations, for the consideration of arms permits and private security authorisations and for the implementation of other criminal prevention purposes. The justification for this bill in this respect is, in particular, the increase in the threat of terrorism and the increase in cross-border organised crime and cybercrime. This would therefore improve in particular the capacity of the police to process data for the purpose of preventing crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u72	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u73	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new law on the processing of personal data in a police action. This proposal, too, renews the law and at the same time repeals the law of the same name. Here too, the proposal must be supported. In my view, this proposal takes into account the changes that have taken place in the police environment and also the data processing needs that have arisen from them, particularly with regard to the processing of personal data in order to prevent criminal offences. The aim of the proposal is also to clarify and simplify the complex structure of the law. When you read this proposal once again, you can say that if the objectives are successful, the reform of the law will also succeed. A well-functioning flow of information is one of the key prerequisites for a networked and risk management society. It is clear that properly targeted public authorities are based on correct and as real-time information as possible. A hindsight is always easier to be than to produce or obtain information in advance. Responding to changes in our security environment requires better and more up-to-date situational awareness from the authorities, as well as predictability and closer cooperation with different authorities. Due to the increasing sensitivity of our society, it is vital that we be able to react quickly and also effectively to change. With regard to the police organisation, changes in the security environment always concern public order and security and related crime, prevention, detection and prosecution. The Administrative Committee has already stated in its report in 2014 that when a person is entered into the suspect's information system, he must meet certain requirements. He may only be registered as a suspect or contributor. Thus, when a person is entered into the register of suspects, he or she must contribute to the fulfilment of the grounds on which he or she may be suspected of having committed, committed or contributed to the crime. The threshold is ‘suspected’ as ‘the threshold for carrying out a pre-trial Uncertaintiesare also based onconcrete findings which may lead to a decision on To make an assessment of a person’s future behaviour depends on an uncertain chain of reasoning that the risk of an error assessment is quite high. Madam President! This bill as a whole is a good one and is already reforming the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u74	Mr President! When reading the bill, particular attention was given to the links between this bill and the intelligence legislation that is currently under discussion in Parliament. After all, intelligence is not in itself criminal police activity, but the interface between these matters is very much the same, and the authorities who do it are very much the same. I would be happy to hear how this issue has been dealt with in this context. After all, intelligence is coming into many practical applications in society, and it is important that its use is always governed by law. This is covered a little by the proposal in the section on the protection police, but is there any better information on this at this stage? In any case, I hope that the committee will take this matter into account to the extent necessary in its deliberations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u75	Madam President! This bill is also well founded, and the Minister reasoned irrefutablely. The background is the EU Data Protection Regulation, and in this respect the proposal can be fully supported. But I would like to draw attention, President, to the views expressed in the consultation. A number of opinions highlighted the need for internal and external control of the processing of personal data and the need to refine the assessments of the risks involved. Such comments are made in opinions such as the Chancellor of Justice, the Assistant Ombudsman of Parliament and the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman. The proposal has been corrected in this regard, but concern has nevertheless been expressed. Similarly, a number of opinions expressed concern that this whole process of processing personal data may now become complex as a result of the EU Data Protection Regulation, i.e. on the one hand, the EU-led review of data protection and, on the other hand, the national choice of legislative solutions, on the other. Who controls this whole, and how can we ensure that privacy and the processing of personal data will always and in all situations be properly taken care of? It is certainly the case that, at least in committee proceedings, careful consideration must be given to the fact that the processing of sensitive personal data and the powers of the authorities are adequately taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u76	Madam President! I stayed to think about this law and how much this affects the data protection of the ordinary person and the handling of these matters. I noticed that section 51, the disclosure of personal data in international cooperation, there is very well in my opinion such human rights issues have been raised. We must always look at the human rights situation in the host country and the reporting country, how they fit in with these situations. It seems to me quite well that this situation has been brought forward so that this whole legislation on the protection police has improved in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u77	Madam President! We will continue to work on personal data and, as Mr Mäkelä said, this is linked to intelligence legislation, because we are partly on the same ground. And it is actually good that, at the same time, we are now going through other legislation. The aim is certainly to have legislation that is consistent across administrative boundaries. For example, we have just dealt with border control and now we are in the police. I would like to see that this proposal should still be examined in committee from the point of view of whether the proposed limits are sufficiently detailed. In other words, the proposed regulation will allow the processing of personal data in relation to a wide range of tasks: pre-trial investigation, police investigation, investigation of other offences, maintenance of public order and security, and other supervisory tasks assigned to the police. In other words, at least this reminds the layman of whether we should clarify how other tasks are defined in this context, especially when we have had a tough debate on how to secure civil rights with the entry into force of the intelligence laws, and certainly the citizens are concerned about this. Of course, there is equally concern that the police must also have the necessary capacity to resolve the issues. So here we have to balance between police rights and civil liberties on the one hand. In this proposal, I too particularly welcome the positive position taken on the international cooperation of the supo on human rights. It is stated here that the human rights situation in the host country, the importance of the transfer for Finland's international relations and international agreements and other obligations binding on Finland must also be taken into account when deciding on the disclosure of personal data. In addition, account must be taken of the level of data protection in the host State and the importance of the transfer for the rights of the data subject. This is very important, and when this has also been raised in the context of intelligence laws, Finland should be exemplary in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u78	Madam President! This point of law is specifically related to intelligence laws, and the Administrative Committee has been waiting for the stage when Parliament will receive this matter. The regulation comes from Europe, but the direct effects are precisely on the intelligence law. And when the Constitutional Committee issued a statement on these substance laws, domestic intelligence and foreign intelligence, underlining that, first of all, before the substance laws were completed, these laws relating to intelligence control must be completed, I would have asked the Minister how you would see whether this processing of personal data in a police operation, the processing of that whole set of laws, should even be speeded up, that we would be able to deal with this aspect of personal data within the same timeframe as the part of the intelligence laws dealing with the Intelligence Commissioner and, above all, with the systems relating to this supervision. I myself am a little concerned that if this whole package of legislation is only to be dealt with on the substance side of the legislation, then we may be able to come up with gaps in monitoring, which are specifically related to the sharing of information between the police and, for example, international actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u79	Madam President! The government's proposal as such is very good and worthy of support. These data protection issues must be kept at a good level in the country. The Constitutional Committee is currently discussing these very intelligence laws, both the Military Intelligence and the Civil Intelligence Act, and giving opinions forward. It is, however, the case in this country that privacy and the reliability of human data are protected very carefully by legislation and by the activities of reliable authorities, it is always worth remembering. But we also have to accept that this surrounding world, where we live, is not always very rosy and good, but many actors have so-called evil in mind when they cross borders, for example. That is why we are forced to cooperate internationally, to exchange information with our neighbours, for example in the EU as a whole. If the police were forced to do their job alone and did not get information from their neighbours, for example, when investigating drug trafficking, the police would be in very serious trouble because international crime operates across borders. We also need good cooperation between the police to be able to combat this serious crime. Of course, privacy is respected, but it must be remembered that if all the information were encrypted and should not be used in an official investigation into the most serious crimes, then where we would be — probably the consequences and damage caused by the crimes would be enormously greater. That is why we in this country have legislation up-to-date, and the intelligence law, which I hope will now be adopted very quickly in this Chamber, will make a significant contribution to ensuring that we are better able to control the safety of Finnish citizens, whether it be military matters or, for example, the activities of the police or the Border Guard, which guarantee that it is safe to live in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u80	And then the minister, no more than three minutes. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u81	Mr President! Thank you, representatives, for the relevant comments. To what extent this relates to the legislation on intelligence and to the order in which it is laid down and dealt with in this Chamber, to which several representatives have drawn attention, representatives Mäkelä and Kari as well as Parviainen for their part: this legislation does not require the constitutional amendment that has been made and not the entry into force of the intelligence legislation in itself, and the powers which are being drawn up here do not, therefore, rise from the changes in the intelligence legislation, but from the legislation currently in force, and in that sense there is no direct link. Also with regard to the roles of the Intelligence Supervisor and, for example, the committee to be set up in Parliament, this legislation, in accordance with the application of the EU Data Protection Regulation, is based on the fact that the Data Protection Supervisor is the primary authority which, along with the police's own law enforcement work of course, oversees the exercise of citizens' rights, as it were. And the citizen can always appeal to the Data Protection Supervisor to check how the police use the data relating to him in their registers and also have the right to be informed by the Data Protection Supervisor whether the data has been used fairly and properly, even if it is not directly accessible to them. This is, as it were, a different route in the field of national security intelligence legislation, which is now being presented with a very specific, own control and monitoring procedure. Of course, it would be worthwhile for Parliament to weigh up and for the committee to consider the order in which these can be dealt with in the hearings, but, of course, it is essential for the government that both legislative proposals proceed properly and smoothly, but of course through thorough consideration, which Parliament should always have the right to have. Mr Tuppurainen referred to the organisation of controls and how this side works. I believe that one of the things that has developed here — for technical reasons in itself of recent times, but also this bill is more clearly regulated — is the storage of log data on who uses and what data and for which reason, in itself, the temptation to follow personal data in a misused manner also reduces the current level of authority activity. And, of course, it is important for the police, for example, when this law comes into force, to look once again at how the processes have been organised, so that supervision is sure to work, and to go over that aspect from the point of view of its own law enforcement, so that it is not reserved solely for the role of the Data Protection Supervisor, which is otherwise essential.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u82	Madam President! I hope and believe that the Minister also knows that the logs you mentioned or the police's responsibilities and responsibilities on the side of the police law for the use and disclosure of various records and such systems have been regulated so precisely that there will not be double legislation in the context of the intelligence law, as it were, that the intelligence law regulates the matter in another way and this police law in another way. The protection police, which is designed to play a key role in intelligence activities, are not only leaving the tasks of intelligence but also the tasks of the police law, and these same articles of the police law are therefore used in matters in this intelligence environment, especially if someone starts the investigation on the police law and then moves on the intelligence law side to the same authority, in this case to the protection police. I would just like to record in the annals that today there was a debate on whether this legislation has an accompanying effect and a direct impact on the intelligence law. I believe that we, the members of the Administrative Committee present here – I am not speaking on your behalf, but I would also like to speak to you – will be doing this very carefully in the Administrative Committee. If that is the case, then it would be appropriate to go over this matter now under discussion at the same time as monitoring on the intelligence side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u83	Madam President! It is very important for privacy that the information held by the police is used only very properly. However, there are situations in which I do not understand why existing registers cannot be used. I'll tell you what's going on. If we have a murdered and raped young woman in Kaisaniemi Park and fingerprints on the scene of the crime, the police may look at the owner of this fingerprint from their own records. Of course, the fact that a fingerprint is found is not in itself evidence of guilt; the question of guilt is, of course, settled normally, but certainly a fingerprint of the person known to be present, and questioning that person would help to solve this appalling crime. Well, not all people's fingerprints are on the police record, of course, but we have a passport register that has been born and completed in Finland in recent years, where everyone's fingerprints will gradually come into existence. But when the police find unknown fingerprints at the scene of the murder, for which there is no owner in the police’s own records, that is, in these records of crime, the police are not entitled to look in the passport register, which is gradually all the fingerprints of which are involved. I actually have a question for the Minister: do you have any idea why this is the case? And perhaps an even more important question: should we not do something to correct the situation so that, at least in the most serious criminal investigations, the holder of unknown fingerprints can be viewed from the passport register?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u84	Minister Mykkänen from that place, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u85	Mr President! Thank you for the very specific question. As such, the starting point is that, in fact, EU data protection legislation imposes very precise restrictions on the use of these biometric identifiers, both facial images and fingerprints. That is why we have reached a solution of this kind, which, in itself, has the logic that, when there is information generated by police in their own crime prevention work, such as camera surveillance images, they can be compared with the information they are wanted for, or with fingerprints, but, for example, a passport or other information that is left in normal operation by the authorities, the citizen does not give up in such a way that it can then be used against him in this respect. But the right question for me in itself is whether or not the EU Data Protection Regulation has reached the best result for the world at this point. This is where the basics go from that bottom. I am sure that it will also be possible for the committee to consider further whether there is room for further reflection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u86	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u87	Madam President! Once again, the government will make an excellent proposal. The minimum share capital requirement of EUR 2500 in the establishment of this limited liability company is being abolished, for the same housing companies and also for the cooperatives the reserve fund requirement. This will make it easier for professionals, especially micro and small enterprises, without personal responsibility. And here, too, this dismantling of standards is an excellent thing to facilitate the establishment of small limited companies. In this context, it will also facilitate, digitise and automatise the reporting obligation. This is a good proposal, and it is all a good one, to make it easier for us to give up this sort of operator's role and then put it into the form of a limited liability company. This threshold of EUR 2500 is one thing, one of course is the bureaucracy of registration and administration. This is where both will be lightened. Here may have become duubies about whether this now increases the grey economy in some way or whether this is going to become shell companies, but I personally see that if honest entrepreneurs want to do their own business honestly, then this will ease that threshold and usually then this kind of gray and criminal business will not be shown in any registers separately. I personally see that this is an excellent proposal, will make it easier for us to set up a business. Hopefully we will have good small businesses and micro-enterprises in Finland, facilitated by this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u88	Madam President! This Government proposal proposes to amend the Companies Act, the Housing Company Act and the Cooperative Act. The amendment has been discussed a few times over the years in public. The reform has been feared to increase the shadow economy, tax evasion and all kinds of chilling games. There is always such a danger, even after every fine change in the law. The establishment of a minimum capital requirement has been justified in the past by the requirements for the share capital of other countries and by the fact that companies which do not have real assets may not be established for the purpose of carrying out their business without personal responsibility. The minimum capital requirement has been in law for the protection of creditors. In practice, it has been of small importance, EUR 2500. In order to assess the company’s creditworthiness, financiers, service providers, contractual partners and others primarily obtain information from credit information companies. For existing customers, companies also use their own data on the creditworthiness of the target company, such as the duration of the customer relationship and payment behaviour. I'm sure this is standard practice right now. However, even for new limited liability companies to be set up, I do not believe that equity capital is relevant to the credit rating. In order to assess the creditworthiness of the micro-enterprises and small enterprises to be set up, the background information of those responsible for the enterprise, such as personal and positive information and the business connections of those responsible, is essential. In my view, the company’s financial statements are very important for the assessment of creditworthiness. In practice, for the purposes of accounting analysis, the financial statements are requested from the target itself, so trust and responsibility are up to them. The aim of the proposal is to facilitate business start-ups, occupations and other micro and small business activities without personal responsibility. The proposal facilitates the use of a private limited company, in particular in the setting up of new micro-enterprises and otherwise strengthens the conditions for business. The change lowers the threshold for the establishment of a limited liability company and is likely to reduce those operating under the status of a private trader, i.e. an activity. Madam President! I believe that this proposal is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u89	Madam President! This reform of the law on limited liability companies and housing companies, as well as cooperatives, is very important. We should all bear in mind that today the improvement in the current employment situation has been very much due to small Finnish companies. There are some 300,000 companies in Finland, and this has enabled a huge number of people to be employed during this parliamentary term. Nearly 120,000 people have been employed, and what is most important is that the long-term unemployed have had a really good job. We must ensure that companies operate effectively and, above all, that we in Parliament have decisions that can strengthen and develop business. That's how those jobs are created. Then there's another thing. In today's newspapers, we read the news that some Finnish industrialists had commissioned a study on where Finnish jobs are created. This comprehensive study carried out by KPMG, an international economic operator, proves that 1.1 million jobs in Finland are created by the fact that the Finnish export industry operates. 1.1 million jobs depend on exports in practice. In other words, we necessarily need a market in this country so that we have good business here and then sell our products outside Finland's borders. In the internal market alone, we cannot maintain the standard of living of this people. When much happens in ports, it always adds value to Finland and increases jobs and strengthens our economy. There has now been a lot of discussion about the profitability of companies and whether some concessions should be given to them, such as the dismantling of red tape, which is what this bill is about: new companies can be set up more easily than before. That's an excellent thing. This is the path we must continue. Finally, Mr President, it is extremely important for us that these companies, which create and employ people, become less and less involved in red tape. However, it should be borne in mind that all companies are subject to accounting obligations and all the relevant legislation, so that no preference for the informal economy is at issue here. The question is that the company can be set up easily and, by doing so, the entrepreneur himself will be employed first, and hopefully, in the next few years, more workers will be employed in that company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u90	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities TyVM 9/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, Mr Filatov, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u91	Mr President! This is therefore a presentation of the report, and I will say a few words about my personal views then at that point in the debate. It is therefore a question of amending the Unemployment Protection Act in such a way that an unemployed person who is over 25 years of age is entitled to unemployment benefit when studying vocational skills or business-supporting studies in such a way that those studies must not last more than six months. However, he would retain the obligations normally linked to unemployment benefit, i.e. the obligation to take up work and the obligation to participate in active measures addressed to him. The main difference between this proposed model and this current possibility of self-study is that the Employment and Economic Development Office no longer makes an assessment of whether that training is such as to promote the employment of a job seeker, i.e. this means that the needs test will be dissolved. You can study, even if you don't have to. The idea behind this is that unemployed people would be able to participate more flexibly in, for example, short-term continuing education and studies of this kind, and that it would encourage unemployed job seekers to study and not have to fear whether my studies would be something that would then take away unemployment benefit. These borderline cases are currently irregularly frequent, or it happens that the TE Office is considering that this training does not contribute to the employment of the job seeker in question, and here too there may be a contradiction between the TE Office and the job seeker as to how they interpret the quality of that training. The committee welcomes this reform and considers it necessary and proposes its adoption unchanged, but raises a few points: The fact that the flexibility of study opportunities applies only to jobseekers aged 25 or over and that only short-term education is supported is considered to be justified from the point of view that, in the case of study benefits — whether for adult students or not for young students — they are lower than unemployment benefit, otherwise we would end up with people as if they were going into unemployment because they would receive better study aid, and that cannot be appropriate. On the other hand, it is also thought that this short term is justified from this very point of view. At the same time, however, the committee drew attention to the fact that our adult education system and also this benefit system, which is on that side, should be reformed in such a way as to make it easier to study today. In addition to supporting professional skills and business, there are no other conditions for this training, and the committee assumes that this should indeed be interpreted in a broad way, so that only studies of a purely recreational nature would be excluded from this scope. Language studies, studies in reading and writing and studies with IT skills are cited as examples that they improve professional skills even if they are not directly vocational studies. The committee is a little concerned about how this interpretation will then actually be done, and requires that the TE Offices have clear instructions and staff training, so that there are no surprise situations in which interpretations cross between different TE Offices, for example, or so that customers feel that this really matters in professional development, and the TE Office considers that there is not — because in today's world, many types of training may support business activities, for example. The committee also stresses that job seekers must be fully informed about the various opportunities for training and detailed and concrete information on what will eventually be accepted as such self-employed studies, that unemployment benefit will not be lost. The Committee also points out that improving the short-term study opportunities of jobseekers requires a renewal of the training providers. At present, there is very little such provision, and many times it may be difficult to distinguish, as it were, between independent continuing education and vocational qualifications. For example, the vision of the Ministry of Education assumes that in the future we should have more integrated, qualifications-oriented training, some of which could then serve as a part of vocational continuing education, and we already have such so-called module training. The committee was concerned that there would be no false interpretations of this type of module for continuing training, which would be considered to be aimed at a profession or a degree, and hoped that this issue would be clarified in the guidelines. Furthermore, the committee points out that if a jobseeker initially takes up studies of a maximum duration of six months and then, in some circumstances, they extend to more than six months, the delay in his studies would not affect this interpretation when it is due to the reason for the job seeker, and that is what the committee considers justified. But sometimes it may also be that it is not because of the student but for some other reason — for example, the student has gone to study with a little misinformation and imagined that it would take less than six months — and here it is hoped that, when the duration of unemployment benefit is considered by the Employment and Economic Development Office, consideration will be given to the fact that the education system does not yet recognise these six-month study modules of the duration of the proposed model. Furthermore, when a job seeker is required to have access to the labour market in this model, the Committee would draw attention to the fact that it must be clear to the job seeker that he really needs to take up work if he is to have it, and then the Committee would like to draw attention to the fact that, if active measures are offered, they must be justified in this situation. Finally, the Bureau draws attention to this and welcomes the fact that this type of study also fulfils the conditions for an active model when it is rhythmised in the right way. The committee is in favour of this. Then perhaps the point that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health drew attention to the need to simplify it in the development of unemployment security and to harmonise the various forms of support during unemployment, and this proposal may take us away from it, and in that sense we should follow up what will happen in the future. Perhaps this was still something worth mentioning. The committee's report contains one objection, which concerns the age limit of 25 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u93	Mr President! As Mr Filatov said in his presentation, this amendment to the law gives the jobseeker the right to unemployment benefit without pre-supposes that he has reached 25 years of age and that the studies last for a maximum of six months and that the studies provide professional skills or support for business activities. However, studying would not be a valid reason to refuse a job or service offered. These changes make it more flexible for jobseekers to study, but they may also make it more difficult for beneficiaries to understand the benefit system. This is why it is very important to provide information on this issue, because exceeding the six-month limit gives rise to problems in the payment of unemployment benefit if the unemployed person is not paying attention to the calculation of these days. Then we must also remember that you must be prepared to accept work during your studies. In this case, an assessment of whether to accept a job offer or to continue to complete a possible study period or course is a rather risky choice and certainly a very difficult one, because completing a study can and is likely to improve the labour market position, but refusing a job offer can then lead to toughness. I believe that this is quite a difficult choice in many cases, both of which work. Mr President! It is all right to change the law, although the 25-year-old limit can also be called into question, as Mr Kontula has done in his own protest. There are also constitutional problems with this limitation. However, it should be borne in mind that this bill or this model in no way eliminates the need for labour market policy training, which the SDP has proposed to be added on several occasions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u94	Madam President! This government proposal and the report that has now become a very good one. It is true that we have problems in the labour market and there are problems in working life, but this draft law and report assumes that this money, known as unemployment benefit, can be used, for example, for studies. And then can you use it to study full-time? Well, of course not, that is why there are forms of support in this country. The Finnish student support system is certainly one of the best in the world, if not the best. In the future, with the development of working life and also these subsidies, with which unemployment can be combated and people can be redirected back to work, it will certainly be the case that we will have to reform the unemployment benefit system in the years to come. First of all, bureaucracy must be dismantled so that when a person gets a job, even if it is a short job, even if it is a week's work, it can be used smoothly and then the compensation procedure would not be disrupted by that short employment relationship. For the model that is valid in Germany and in which a person can take advantage of a three-day employment relationship, even if now during rush hour in a store as a seller or something like that: There are these different types of congestion situations in the workplace where the workforce is preferably employed. After all, the system must be like in Germany so that a person can take advantage of that work for a few days. Since then, the state has guaranteed that the rest of the promised unemployment benefit will be paid within a month so that their own activity will be rewarded. It will certainly not be punished by cutting off labour market subsidies or similar unemployment benefits, but when the short-term employment relationship is over, even though the three-day period of work, unemployment benefits will continue undisturbed. That's where we should go. I am not so familiar with this legislation as to what it is wrong to do, but I know that this tripartite system must be reformed in such a way — it is a very good system — that we need more flexibility and speed so that we can make rapid decisions so that when a person gets a job, it must be encouraged, supported, and then, when unemployment continues, it should not be punished in such a way that it takes months to wait for unemployment benefits and people are in trouble. The system in Germany in this respect is very good. I hope that in the next few years Finnish politicians will come up with the same solution and that this tripartite system will also accept it, because we have to do something. Although we have tens of thousands of jobs available in this country, we have nearly 200,000 unemployed people. This imbalance is so terrible that something has to be done about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u95	Mr President! To this extent, I would like to comment on the question raised by Mr Hoskonen: At the moment, we can earn EUR 300 without reducing unemployment benefit, and after earning the euro, half of unemployment benefit will leave. In principle, this is a very flexible system, but when we come to practical implementation we will have those problems. I do not think there is any disagreement about this, as it were, at political and legislative level. The problem is how we implement this system and what delays we face in the fact that the interpretation between working time and income is not always very clear. But if we look at this legislation, that is absolutely something to be supported. The SDP itself has been presenting this in its own programmes for a long time. On top of that, it is worth thinking about what can be done more freely with unemployment benefit, because the fact that you take up work and it has a strict obligation is justified, but it is not always justified that, for example, voluntary work, study or other activities are interpreted as a full-time activity that prevents you from taking up work and, as a result, you leave unemployment security because you pass people unnecessarily. But at the same time it is also worth remembering that this is not the answer to our problem of labour shortages and this does not bring us any more skilled people, but only divides the existing jobs in such a way that you can also study when you are unemployed. This is perhaps the illusion that we tend to fall into: it is thought that we have a strong increase in self-employed training, and that is good, but, at the same time, we have a reduction in vocational labour market training. It has, for example, been the instrument that may have reacted quickly and agilely to the skills needs that have existed in a particular TE Office or in a region of positive structural change. And now this training has diminished. In addition, it has made such a change that it is here within the normal system of state participation training, when, in fact, the agility, the time taken by the tendering procedure, which has previously been a couple of months, about three months, has changed for a year and two years. In addition to this, we still need such a fast-paced training tool targeting those unemployed who are not going to be so actively trained. After all, some unemployed people have a desire to be trained, have access to these self-employed training places, but not everyone has, they need more guidance and support in leaving to improve their professional capacity, and that is a aspect that we must not forget. As warmly as I am in favour of this proposal, I would also like to say that this may become... [ The speaker moves to the podium] This may become a trap in which people, even if they have access to the labour market, are preserved, as it were. And that is something we must avoid, because the fact that we train people, as it were, as a result of training, is not necessarily justified by such strong support from society, that is to say, by receiving a reasonable amount of study aid through unemployment benefit and by means of a society which has been paid at the same time. And here lies the risks of such a system. They hide more there on the side of discretionary self-training, and it is sought to be buffered by the fact that there is reflection there. But I dare say that if we have people in this model of self-sustaining, then the pretty big threshold is for the TE Office to make representations to a person who is in vocational education for six months because it is thought that this investment in education may be wasted. And it is not even appropriate in such situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u96	Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is to improve the position of the unemployed in the labour market, i.e. to be able to train for the jobs that will be sought in the future. There should not be a trap for this, and I do not believe that, for the most part, this will be the case. You have to be a very rare case if this becomes a trap. And when an invitation to work comes, it should go there, that is the normal functioning of the labour market. In my opinion, the Incomes Register would improve just what Mr Filatov has just said here, the practical difficulties that will arise here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u97	Mr President! In addition to personal assistance and support, education is one of the most effective ways of helping people to find employment, and that is something we will probably agree on. It is very important that, when you are unemployed, you have the opportunity to study because it is important for the maintenance of your ability to work, that you are in some meaningful activity, while at the same time promoting your professional skills and employment opportunities. However, I agree with Mr Filatov that reducing vocational labour market training is a downgrading to our objective of employment, because vocational labour market training is an important issue for both the availability of labour and the employment of the unemployed. If we look at education in Finland as a whole, then I do not think we have a problem with not having access to education. There's a variety of them, and there's a lot of them. But we have the challenge of getting the very people who need it in education and the kind of education they need in their own circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u98	Mr President! It is precisely this aspect that, in a way, I tried to open up with a somewhat critical approach to the point that we are now focusing on a lot of self-employed education and that is necessary, but the downside is that what Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has pointed out here is that not everyone is going to be able to learn through this system and that they need more support. And my criticism is that this support is shrinking in our society, and that should not happen if we want to stick to the fact that we have a skilled workforce. We know that education is capital accumulation. Those who study, study more, more, more and are often attached to it as if in the suction of study, and so on. It's a great thing, it takes Finland forward. But then there is the group who may already have worse experiences of education than a young person or a child and who have a higher threshold for going to study. And more should we put shots in this group now to encourage and encourage them to acquire new skills and upgrade their skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u99	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 7/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u100	Madam President! This is a Government proposal to amend the electoral law, and the Government's proposal describes the matter as a few technical amendments in relation to the spring 2019 elections. There are four main amendments, the first of which concerns the revision of the wording of the implementation of the European Commission's electoral directive, which I also describe as technical. The second concerns the extension of the date of submission of applications for candidates for the 2019 European Parliament elections, which I do not see as purely technical. It is a technical question that the legal deadlines would not overlap and that parties and other candidates could better manage their own nominations. This is the argument that the date for submitting applications for candidates for elections to the European Parliament will be postponed to 18 April next year, that is to say two days ahead. The amendment is one-off and concerns the 2019 European Parliament elections. It is therefore a question of waiting until the result of the parliamentary elections has been confirmed in April, and only after that will candidates and parties be able to decide who will be nominated to the European Parliament. This change will therefore mean that only after the end result of the parliamentary elections has been confirmed will the nomination of candidates for the European Parliament be decided. The other two proposals are more technical: In other words, the change in the timetable for municipal voting district decisions is related to the transfer of municipal elections from October to April in 2015. In the future, municipal voting district decisions will always take effect at the beginning of the calendar year. The fourth amendment concerns the possibility of electronic distribution of notification cards. If the person entitled to vote has provided a strong identification using the Suomi.fi message service, his consent to receive all the press releases sent by the authorities electronically, then the election notice card will be sent only electronically. This, too, may in itself be thought to be a technological change, but it is linked to the new world and society in that more and more services are being transferred to the network. But, as has been said, in order for a citizen to receive an election notice card only electronically, it has required his own consent, so it is assumed that the citizen will also know what he has given his consent to. With regard to this proposal, the most significant change concerns this principle that only after the result of the parliamentary elections has been confirmed will the candidates be closed to the European Parliament elections. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers the proposal to be justified and supports its adoption without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u101	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 8/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Lapintie.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u102	Madam Speaker! The Government's proposal concerns a change in the EU's electoral decree. It is a question of the EU electoral act providing a legal framework for the conduct of European elections throughout the European Union. The European elections in each Member State shall be carried out in accordance with national law and electoral traditions, except for the marginal conditions laid down in this electoral act and in the voting rights directive. The amended paragraphs now proposed are either optional for the Member States or such that, for Finland, electoral legislation is already in line with them. These amendments provide, for example, that the minimum period for standing as a candidate must be at least three weeks before the date of the election and that there are effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for double voting. In Finnish legislation, these matters are in order, and the amendment of the electoral decree does not require any amendment of other Finnish legislation. It is only a question of bringing this amendment to the electoral act into force by law. The Government's proposal states that the amendment of the electoral decree falls within the scope of the legislation and, according to Article 94(1) of the Constitution, the amendments to the electoral decree require the approval of Parliament. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the adoption of a Council decision amending the electoral act may be decided by a majority of votes and the draft law implementing the decision may be dealt with in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted. This is therefore the committee's proposal for a decision to be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u103	Madam President! Of course, these technical changes must be made and prepared for the elections to the European Parliament, of course, at the same time, these parliamentary elections are more or less coincidental. But I would draw Parliament's attention to the fact that, in the European Union's standard, we have quite a problem with what is the turnout in the European elections, because that is the real big problem, which is the legitimacy of the European Union. How strong is the power of power that the European Union can obtain from the people in elections if the turnouts fall sharply below 50? If I remember correctly, in some countries the turnout was very, very low, I wonder if it was 20 percent — I do not remember exactly, but much less than in Finland. So if we want these democratic systems to be maintained... It is the only right option — democracy is the only right option for the management of common affairs — but if in some elections the turnout falls worryingly low, then one day someone will be asking whether this system has a legal basis for what this system works on. This is why it would be a good thing, especially among young people, to see a sharp rise in voting turnout and to make those percentages of votes rise well up in the European elections as well as in our national parliamentary elections. In a situation where the turnout is 80 or even more, I do not think so at the outset, but I would like to see a positive approach, because, for the European Union, especially when you read the press, the various news from all over Europe, this legal basis has been quite strongly challenged and suspected. That is why it is absolutely essential that in all our public appearances Members of Parliament and other people in the political sphere should be able to make a strong statement that it is worth voting on, because it rests on the whole legal basis on which this Western society operates. And it is a very valuable and well cherished thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u104	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 17/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Presentation, Chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u105	Madam President! This is a draft law amending the law on direct aid to agriculture in the European Union and the law on implementation. Once again, it is a matter of the norm. First of all, the European Union's direct aid law for agriculture would be amended in terms of the definition of an active farmer, with the abolition of the so-called ban list. What does this mean? This means that an active farmer no longer needs to be allocated a certain total income limit on the income of a person who comes from agriculture, even if there are other accompanying activities. Good examples of this include the riding field and the manna. Of course, this has not affected very many people in Finland, but it has caused a completely unnecessary administrative burden for both the administration and then for these farmers who have had to do so. In addition to this, we want greening aid to be an ecological sector, including the set-aside areas sown on forest crops. Area aid controls are very much time-eating measures both for farmers and for the administration, and the committee believes that it is very good that, in line with the wishes of the committee, we should move towards digitalisation, and that new technologies could be used in the field of land aid control in the future. We all know that drones and other methods are coming. Why not use them and reduce costs and time? In addition, advice to farmers could be chosen in the future through an open and impartial selection procedure and the selection procedure would no longer be subject to public procurement legislation. This committee's report on these issues was unanimous, and all of these are normative — each in its own small sector, but good examples are that reason is allowed and that wisdom is to go towards the future and use modern technology wherever possible. I thank the committee for its good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u106	The 23rd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u107	Mr President! This bill proposes to amend Article 6 of the Military Injury Act. The purpose of the bill is to remove the percentage limits for war-qualified persons from the right to treatment or part-time maintenance in an institution. The amendments should enter into force on 1 January 2019. Now are the last moments to put the services of war veterans in order. We have been talking about the situation of veterans in this Chamber for decades. From the mouth of politicians you hear beautiful words about veterans, especially in the ears of Independence Day, but by Christmas it will feel like they have been forgotten again. We Finns have consistently promoted the cause of veterans. Over the years, we have drawn up a number of parliamentary measures aimed at improving the situation of veterans. By going through my bill now before me, it would improve the daily lives of many veterans. The initiative proposes to amend the Military Injury Act to replace the maintenance or part-time maintenance provided by a private institution, even where the need for it is due to a non-replaced injury or illness. In this case, institutional or part-time institutional care would be funded by the State Office for those who are unable to survive at home due to a deterioration in their health. Part-time institutional care refers to day-care care where the invalid is in the institution day and night at home. Treatments are to be arranged on a periodic basis so that they can support home survival as well as possible. Such periodic institutional and part-time institutional care may be organised in war-related hospitals and other institutions with which the Treasury has concluded an agreement to organise such services. The law also applies to the war ombudsmen living in Sweden. The average age of veterans in our wars in Finland during 1939-1945 is now over 93 years, so changes in the law to improve their position are urgent. In addition, the number of veterans is decreasing, but at the same time, as a result of the high age, the need for treatment is increasing. As a result of departure and ageing, it would be justified to pay for institutional or part-time institutional care for all those who served in Finnish wars between 1939 and 1945. Replacement of institutional and part-time institutional care in accordance with the initiative represents a significant advantage for the disabled concerned and facilitates the financial position of their spouses. Mr President! There are plenty of strong political, moral and economic grounds for improving the position of our veterans in our wars. The development of legislation is also marked by reforms aimed at improving the conditions of veterans. In the Government's proposal for a law amending the Law on the Rehabilitation of Front Veterans, it is proposed that front Veterans who participated in the wars from 1939 to 1945, who have a military code, a military code or a military code, should be replaced by services supporting living at home. The costs incurred by municipalities and joint municipal authorities would be reimbursed by the State Treasury. The content and changes in the legislative process are also explained and supported by general economic factors. In order to implement the above-mentioned legislative change, a new assessment deadline will be set up for 2019 to 2022 and the same services of home-based support will be allowed for front veterans as for war-qualified people. It has also been pointed out that, according to the State’s financial statements for 2017, a surplus of EUR 57 million from military injury compensation and state compensation for the rehabilitation and treatment facilities of military and military invalids would have been sufficient to cover the costs of institutional care for war-qualified persons even after the percentages were lowered. Similarly, much of the above-mentioned appropriations will not be used for the current year. For this reason too, in 1939-1945, it is proposed to replace the maintenance or part-time maintenance provided by the facility for those who are injured or ill by war, even when the need arises from a disability or illness other than that which has been compensated. Mr President! Finally, I and those who have signed the initiative also propose that, as provided for in the Government Decree, medical examination and rehabilitation for the purpose of restoring or maintaining working or functional ability should also be replaced as medical care. The maintenance or part-time maintenance provided at the facility shall also be reimbursed for those who are injured or ill as a result of the wars of 1939 to 1945, even if that need is due to an injury or illness other than compensation. In addition, rehabilitation may be compensated even if the need for rehabilitation is not due to the injury or illness that has been compensated, to the injured person or to the sick person with a disability rate of at least 10 per cent. This would bring considerable relief to the everyday lives of many veterans. That and much more they deserve. Let's keep the veterans in mind, too, before and after the Fourth of July. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u108	The 24th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-28-ps-122.u109	Mr President! This bill proposes that the reporting obligation of an immigrant within the meaning of the Local Government Act should result in the Local Register Office being required to provide the information contained in the removal notification without delay to the management referred to in Article 11 of the Housing Companies Act. In practice, this means that housing companies would receive information about the movers or migrants. This would help to verify the identity of the residents and to easily mark the correct information about the residents on the doors of the apartments and on the population board of the stairs. The purpose is also to verify the identity of people. This is important for the safety of residents and also for the comfort of living. By the time of the bill, there would be registers of persons in housing companies. They are regulated by the Personal Data Act. The controller must, of course, ensure that inaccurate or outdated personal data are not processed or used for wrong purposes. The notification indicates the name of the person moving, the personal identity code, the date of moving, the information relating to the dwelling and municipality of residence, the place of residence and the reason for managing the dwelling. In addition, the notification of temporary residence must indicate the purpose and duration of the temporary stay. I believe that the maintenance of personal records and the proper processing of data would not be problematic. Instead, the proposed reform would have a positive impact on the safety of residents and on the comfort of living. - Thank you.
