ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u1	Eero Reijonen from Liperi, who has come from the constituency of Savo-Karjala instead of Elsi Katainen, who has suspended his mandate, has presented me with his mandate and has taken up his mandate today. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u3	Congressman Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u4	Mr President! Many Finns are currently waiting for the solution of Sipilä's government to improve social welfare and health care. That is what we all want and look forward to. Now it has been built during the Sipilä government for a very long time in the midst of various conflicts. The most recent very critical position on social reform has been taken by the Economic Policy Review Council, which identified serious shortcomings. Well, yesterday we heard the Government Party delegation's leading economic debater Elina Lepomäki's violent knockout of the social welfare plans. According to him, the Sipilä Government's social welfare proposal is problematic from the point of view of EU law, threatens to increase the tax burden, centralise the health market and creates a new administrative structure that is detrimental to cost control and the organisation of effective care paths. Mr Saarikko, can you assure me that these criticisms are entirely wrong?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u6	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma whispers from the front row that ‘it is enough when you answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’’. Unfortunately, perhaps for the majority of Finns, it has already become clear that such a simple reform is unfortunately not such a big one. [Laughter] At the same time, however, I am very proud that, after quite difficult stages, we are now in the final stages of legislation, and even more proud of the preparatory work that is currently being done in 18 provinces with hundreds of people, in fact thousands, in order to make that reform a reality and to improve the services of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u7	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Paatero continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u8	Mr President! I am afraid that the Minister has not been given an exhaustive answer to the fact that it is wrong to criticise what has been said quite widely. And it is quite clear that once this criticism has included the fact that the social welfare reform is very far removed from the original objectives, this model will not improve the availability of services, nor will it increase customer orientation,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u15	And Minister Saarikko, and then Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u16	Mr President! Mr Paatero, you have made a long list of the risk factors you have assessed, and it is clear that all this can be done if the reform does not materialise in practice. It is not enough to have a new law. I disagree with you. This reform will improve the availability of services. I believe that customer orientation will increase and the evaluation of the effectiveness of care will become more relevant, also because of the way in which the provinces are financed. I am also sure that this reform will make it more possible to reduce health inequalities than it is now in a worrying situation. And yes, this whole reform, including new forms of practice, has the potential to achieve cost savings. I therefore disagree with you as to what the effects of this reform will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u17	Madam President! Minister Saarikko has already used an excellent opening to this, and perhaps I will focus more on the cost side. Of course there are risks. In other words, the demand for our social and health services will increase in a huge way over the coming decade. That is why this reform must be carried out, and in fact, in this reform too, the basic elements are much the same as those that Parliament has reached in the last term. Now there is freedom of choice, which guarantees equal, rapid access to treatment. But the implementation phase, which will begin properly once the laws have been adopted — which is in fact already under way — is where the ultimate solution is that these efficiency gains, cost savings, will also be achieved. We need to build a good system carefully, take advantage of new health technologies, see that those care chains are created, so that people can get really fluent treatment, so that there is no cost of not getting to the doctor that you cannot get to today. So this is a lot, a lot of good,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u18	Mr President! The Coalition Party usually says that it is concerned about the sustainability of public finances. It is also generally said that the assembly is concerned about the creation of monopolies. But for some reason, the coalition still promotes freedom of choice for social reform, which involves significant risks, particularly from the point of view of the sustainability of public finances and also the creation of private monopolies. At the moment, it would appear that the opposition understands the laws of the market economy better than the government. Yes, every genuine market liberal should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u19	Mr President! This debate also shows that reform in Finland is extremely difficult and that reforms are extremely difficult to achieve. This government is going to bring this reform to its end. Last summer, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that reform is urgent and necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u20	Madam President! In its report last summer, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated the following: "In future, the Government will have to take care of a particularly precise assessment of the draft EU law, if necessary in cooperation with the EU authorities." I would like to ask Prime Minister Sipilä directly: why does Finland systematically refuse to send its social welfare model to the EU Commission for assessment? I ask this in particular because it is required by the Constitutional Committee and proposed by the highest court in Finland, the Supreme Administrative Court. Can you answer, Prime Minister Sipilä?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u21	Mr President! This policy is an interesting sport. The same parties expressed great criticism at the first stage of freedom of choice, where there was an obligation to enter into a partnership. This neutrality is created in a way that is incorporated. Now it has been left out, as requested by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and at the same time it has been ensured that the neutrality of competition is maintained, and therefore the government does not see the need to notify this in the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u22	Mr President! According to experts, the government’s social welfare reform does not improve service chains, is not cost-effective and does not reduce health inequalities among Finns. However, it was cost-effectiveness, narrowing the gap and seamless service chains that were the ultimate objective of this reform. Your social model is a disaster for public health and a disaster for the national economy. The problems of the government's social model are linked to the so-called freedom of choice which favours large social enterprises. There are also problems with EU law. If you now push through laws without notification, you risk the sustainability of Finnish social services. But if you give up this market model, or so-called freedom of choice, there will be no such problems as EU law, nor will there be any of these problems in relation to the achievement of these original objectives. So now I'm asking the government:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u23	Mr President! The reform of social and health services maintains the original objectives. In your speech, Mr Sarkkinen, I am concerned, in particular, about the role that this model is creating in Finland, as if it were the case that private operators would come here. They're already here, no matter what they think. We have a million Finns who have taken out private health insurance, and we know that a large citizens' initiative is coming to Parliament, for example, in connection with the procurement procedure where different private operators compete for social care services and where, as always and often too often in procurement, only the cheapest wins on the basis of price. For example, this reform will place greater emphasis on people with disabilities who need a lot of services so that they can choose which service provider to use and the quality of the service will be placed in greater value. What amazes me in your speech is the view that we are, as it were,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u24	One minute is still time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u25	Madam President! Minister, you brought out those magical magic words: the cheapest price wins. Good government, you drive business, and entrepreneurship is encouraged. However, it is extremely worrying that large companies are taking over the sector and bombarding smaller operators. For example, this is happening in the provinces. Let's take a small care company: municipalities go out for a mini-race. An auction will be started, among other things, on care facilities for the elderly, who offers and who agrees to do this service with the cheapest money. It is extremely dangerous if, for example, it is said that the price of EUR 130 will fall to EUR 70. It must include 24-hour care, care supplies, care, food and food. With what money can a small entrepreneur provide such a service? With this reform, you are going to bankrupt small businesses completely, and they are forced to sell them to larger producers. We all know this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u26	Mr President! I therefore believe that Mr Juvonen described the current state of social and health services, not so much what is coming. That all regrettable how you describe the current municipal system as working is based on precisely the situation when the reform of social and health services has not yet been implemented. In other words, I would point out that the way in which services are being implemented, which is already produced by various private, public or organisations, is like a similar terrain, but in the future we will manage and run it with wider, wider responsibilities, solutions the size of whole regions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say, without painting the dark clouds on us now, that we all know, or at least we can imagine, if there were no reform of the social and health services, this would be an uncontrollable wild west, precisely the development that is taking place right now by various service providers in that situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u27	Let's stay in one minute. — Representative Rinne, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u28	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, those small businesses have turned into tiny attendos. So much for what's happening right now. Prime Minister, you have said in Helsingin Sanomat that there are only two alternatives to the war. Either you take this current model through — it has now been called into question by the Government Party delegation. One of their leading economic thinkers, Elina Lepomäki, has stated that it does not improve access to services, does not increase customer orientation, does not reduce health inequalities, does not curb cost growth, but it increases administration and bureaucracy, increases taxpayers' burden and may run counter to EU competition law. Another option, if the war falls, you will have that it is the result or out, i.e. there will be a new election. Mr Sipilä, which of these options do you think ordinary citizens want to see in this situation? Which is better for a normal person?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u32	Mr President! It is also a question of what kind of social reform is being carried out. I believe that Finns want a reform of social welfare and health care, which improves public services, speeds up access to treatment and reduces customer fees. Instead, I do not believe that Finns want the largest privatisation of social welfare and health care in Finnish history, which in practice is what the government is doing now. As far as market economy is concerned, I think that Minister Saarikko understands the difference between our current model and the market economy you have presented. Now municipalities acquire and outsource if they decide to outsource, subcontract social and health care services from private operators. With the freedom of choice model, you will make them compete in basic health care. Then these problems arise, which relate to the neutrality of competition, which the government is not even prepared to deal with in advance as part of the careful drafting of legislation, but you are now taking the risk of doing so,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u33	Mr President! In the situation described by Mr Andersson, this decision is now taken on the basis of the acquisition by the municipal decision-maker who, for example, organises or implements the health centre services or the housing services of a disabled person. In this future world of social and health care, its decision is made by the customer, the patient, or he or she together with his loved ones. It is the most important difference and also the general European trend on how to increase the audience of people's own voice. Mr President! Several speakers have referred to this EU-notification package, which is complex and not condensed in just a few decades. I say at the heart of this: on the basis of the preparations for office, the government assumes that there is no need to notify this, because, according to estimates, this model is non-economic, which means that we are not obliged to do so. The second dimension is that if we were to notify,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u34	Mr President! Experts, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council last, the opposition and now representative of the government's own ranks, Mr Lepomäki, state that this government proposal does not improve access to services, does not increase customer orientation and does not reduce health and well-being inequalities and does not curb cost growth. But it will increase governance and bureaucracy, it will increase pressure on tax increases and may run counter to EU competition law. Prime Minister Sipilä, could you not now consider the third option between these two options — the result or out, or the bull-headed introduction of this matter? Would it not be sensible now to consider the third option and return to the original starting point of how to move forward with the reform of social security? You have the power to do this, you are responsible to the citizens of Finland, to the people that health and social services will function in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u35	Mr President! I would like to reiterate here the position of the Constitutional Committee last summer, which was very clear that the reform is urgent, necessary and necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u38	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det var oerhört modigt av ricksdagsledamot Elina Lepomäki att i går säga det som den lilla pojken rain i sagan om att kejsaren inte har några kläder: i det är fallet har kejsaren faktiskt inga kläder. Hon har konstaterat att vårdreformen inte kommer att nå sina mål. Man når inte kostnadsinbesparingar, man når inte en mer jämlik vård och man tar en enorm risk genom att inte föra ärendet till EU-Commissionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u39	Mr President! With the opinion of the Supreme Administrative Court, and on the basis of the preparation of officials, the government has carried out a thorough analysis of the EU legal dimension. In this complex context, with regard to state aid rules and competition, in general between different players, it is clear that the gap in the preparation of reform cannot be very great when, on the other side, there is the obligation of the Constitutional Committee to make a model with a strong public base — that is what we are doing — and elsewhere, as it were, there is an EU legal dimension as clear as possible from the point of view of a competitively neutral situation. We have secured in this model all the elements that may support the neutrality of competition that could have been implemented without incorporation, as if the comparability between these different players, public and private. But the basic premise is that the government considers this to be a matter in national hands, our own social and health policy, and the model is non-economic and is not required to be notified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u40	Madam President! Minister Saarikko, you said that the original objectives are adhered to here. However, with the responsibility of the civil servants, for example, in the parliamentary monitoring group, where I myself am a member, the fact that, when moving from the former model of the 5 social security areas to the 18 regional government models, the chances of achieving the reduction in cost growth with the aim of saving the cost of EUR 3 billion were made more difficult. One major problem with this model is precisely the creation of a new rather heavy level of government. With a smaller number of social services, both the integration of special and basic services and then the mitigation of cost growth would be better achieved. I would like to ask you this: at this stage, could we not still take the model of less social protection than the 18 provinces?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u41	Mr President! At this point, I would like to remind you that we currently have nearly 200 and some 300 municipalities to finance social services. So it is a huge amount, and that is why this is not manageable at the moment. There are no incentives and instruments to make effective social protection. And now that we get to the 18 provinces, that's a whole different matter. We can see that cost development is much better in 18 than in the current model overall. Whether it will reach 3 billion will of course contribute to the fact that we in the Finance Act have this limitation on cost growth, which will also force each province to make its own decisions as efficiently and productively as possible. Eksote, for example, is a good example of new ways of doing things there. That way, through the operation, will be the real savings in 18 provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u42	Mr President! I've been following this mess for years, and it's been quite sad to follow. This reform is far too late, and it is bad for the Finnish service system. There has been a long consensus on these principles, and now a model has been refined on that basis, and we should be able to achieve this quickly. As far as the EU is concerned, I believe that the central principle of the EU is that the Member States have health care in their own hands, and the EU should not now be allowed into the Member States' health care business. And I would have asked the Minister when, in this implementation, the provinces and the field are about to become key: what does that situation look like in the provinces, and do the provinces now have sufficient planning resources to implement it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u43	Mr President! The representative's point of view is good in terms of where the social welfare system and the province are being implemented. They take place here in the committees, in the government tables, in the extensive preparation of office, but most of all there in the practical work. From this box, I think it has already been said what I think is at the heart of everything: there should now be the courage to put these frames in order so that we can get to grips with the contents. In an ageing Finland, we have to find solutions to a valuable and high-quality package of elderly services, we have to find solutions to the burden of child protection, we have to find solutions to the sustainable treatment of people's illnesses and effective rehabilitation — to name a few examples. It is a pleasure to see the work in the provinces, that is, the transformation of the hundreds of organisations now into 18 regions. And the thousands of rapporteurs around this matter are waiting and telling us, as the main message, that you take care of this law, and we will make it happen. But not at once: Just the assumption of cost-cutting
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u44	Madam President! Everyone understands that such a huge reform involves a wide range of risks, and everyone understands that, over the years and decades, reform, of course, will change, as will all other major reforms. But, Minister Saarikko, could you translate this for the left?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u47	Mr President! I'd be happy to make the additions the representative would like. Your question alone answered many of these concerns. Perhaps I will say that, on this whole, we will easily end up in an ideological debate, ‘better private than public’. There are many representatives here who have visited different places where the service provider has been private or public, and I cannot automatically say which is better, at least in my own experience. I have seen very different services with the same money. And that is why I believe that the most important part of Mr Zyskowicz's speech is that quality, quality of services and competition are also taking place in a new setting. ‘Competition’is not a bad thing for me or The most important thing is the opening of the first door,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u48	Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, last speech at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u49	Thank you, Mr President. We need a more functional social model, and we all agree on that. But unfortunately, the government model is not. There is no support for the government model from experts, but I also hear the same criticism in the provinces from supporters of the government parties and now also here in Parliament. Interestingly, all criticisms are directed at the same things, so the government model does not reduce welfare and health inequalities, the whole care chain will not happen, equality in services will not improve, there will be no savings, rather costs will increase. All this criticism is in line. Under no circumstances will this achieve the original objectives of reform. How can you nullify the opinions of almost all these experts so completely?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u50	Mr President! The Government has had a lot of expert discussions in refining the proposal for freedom of choice on the basis of the feedback received last summer. It was taken seriously and there are many critical points in the proposal that were criticised and judged by Parliament in its own statements. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, I have tried to be constructive in my speeches, and I particularly appreciate the content work you have done on the social services, but I am still tempted to ask. I haven't come to the idea of what your options for all of this really would be. Sometimes you are in favour of provinces, sometimes you are in favour of municipalities or different larger municipalities. You say that freedom of choice works, and then there comes a ‘spot,but’ and yet it does. And in this regard, compromises have been forced upon this reform. It will only be achieved and it will achieve its objectives in a phase-in manner. Every representative of the government party will certainly have to put up with it in its corners, it is such a wide-ranging whole, but now we need to get that reform moving.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u51	Next question: Parliament of Finns, representative Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u52	Mr President! Although the collapse of communism was a good thing — it was a good thing indeed — there are still a lot of skeletons in the safes from those days, such as the Tiitinen List and the secrets of the recession and banking crisis of the 1990s, which in practice enslaved hundreds of thousands of Finns on bank terms. The so-called Tiitinen list, which contains the names of the feared Finnish people of interest to the Communist DDR, Stas, is still under wraps. All civilized European countries have washed their dirty laundry for the sins behind the Iron Curtain. It would be unheard of if any other country hid names that, in one way or another, were involved in Stasi’s activities. So is the government finally going to put pressure on us to open this safe so that we Finns can have an open knowledge of the painful points of our history — or who is being protected here?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u53	Mr President! First of all, in Finland, the government does not put pressure on the authorities and the authorities do not make decisions under pressure, but in the rule of law, within the framework of laws and their own powers of action, the protection police have actually decided, in relation to the request for a study of the Tiitinen list in question, that the proper confidentiality decision on the list itself will remain in force. For decades there will still be secrecy in accordance with normal practice, which will safeguard both the sources and the names on the list, the wrong use of doubts about them, and of course the government will not take this issue to rest. In this respect, I think it would be extremely dangerous if we started to address what is classified information for how long, to assess what is already available on the basis of our information, even though the normal framework for intelligence cooperation holds onto it. There are certain rules, and the person who provided the information must have known and can be confident that the protection police and Finland will act in accordance with the rules of the game that we have in force.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u54	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u55	Mr President! I feel like the cover-up is going on. The intelligence laws are under discussion and the related supervisory committee is being set up. At the same time, when we consider what kind of coercive measures we need to be able to use in extreme situations, we have papers that seem to have a higher level of protection than the law. We may have a situation in the future where the person who provided information to a foreign state intelligence service, Stasi, sits in the Finnish Intelligence Committee. That could be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u58	Mr President! The Government's proposals include rules for the security clearance of members of this possibly-established intelligence control committee. Of course, in this context, if there are relations and responsibilities with foreign powers which obstruct the operation of the mission of the Committee on Intelligence, this issue will be raised, and then Parliament will decide. As such, when you referred here to the Tiitinen List and the eligibility of members of the Committee on Intelligence, perhaps it is also about the challenges that we face, for example: The publication of the tithe list would be because it is a question of tip-top information, which is certainly not as such a basis for what the role of a person has sometimes been or what the role of a person is at present in relation to foreign intelligence bodies. As such, decisions must be taken on the basis of current information and on the basis of a safety report, which is made responsibly by the relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u59	Next question: the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u60	Mr President! Every day we see very sad war pictures of Syria, East Ghouta, wounded children, people who cannot be evacuated from the midst of the crisis, missing food, missing medicines. UN Secretary-General António Guterres has described the situation in eastern Ghouta, Syria, as hell on earth. There is a situation where the UN has tried to impose a 30-day cease-fire, but the bombings have continued there. The situation is completely intolerable. They're probably also breaking the rules of war. Minister of Foreign Affairs Soini, Finland has been very quiet about this crisis. I haven't seen any spectacular exits, spectacular statements. I would like to know what Finland has done on this issue. What have we been doing in the European Union, what have we been doing at the UN in order to secure a permanent and strong ceasefire in Syria and help civilians?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u61	Madam President! It is a good thing that this question came up here during Question Time, because there has been a lot of incomplete and incorrect information about this. So I was a little prepared for this, Mr Haavisto. On 16 February, I have taken a position at the Gymnich Conference on the issue of the grave concern of these hostilities, particularly in Afrin, Idlib and East Ghouta. So we need a cease-fire, diplomatic action, immediate humanitarian aid. I also raised these issues in advance during the parliamentary hearings, including in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the large committee. That is what I told Parliament before this Gymnich meeting, which I shall be sending out. So is the 26.2. The UN Security Council resolution, when this cease-fire motion finally came out of the whistle, I commended it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u62	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Haavisto continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u63	Mr President! Mr Soini, you have been able to maintain very close relations with Turkey and you have also had a great deal of contact with the Turkish leadership. Now that we are looking at the Syrian conflict in northern Syria, Africa, Turkey has launched an autonomous operation which appears to be directed specifically against the Kurds in Turkey. There are also civilian victims, child victims and so on. Finland has a special relationship with Turkey, the European Union has a special relationship with Turkey because we have jointly dealt with this Syrian refugee crisis. It now seems that this arbitrary Turkish activity in northern Syria has led to a situation in which humanitarian suffering is increasing there. What is your and Finland's message to Turkey now in this situation? How have you reacted to this situation in Afrin? How have you tried to influence these? Turkey's attacks on civilians would end there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u64	Madam President! The always vigilant representative Paavo Arhinmäki put a written question 630/2017 on this matter. There is a broader explanation, which I cannot say because of the lack of time. But I can tell you the key points. On 20 January, Turkey launched this operation. The Security Council did not deliver an opinion on the matter because there was no consensus. However, EU foreign ministers met on 22 January. I was there to make a decision, and I also made this decision public when the press asked me about it. So from now on, we've been taking a stand. And as far as this is concerned, it is appalling. I have always said and the position of the Finnish Government is that by war these matters will not be resolved, but by negotiation. He that taketh the sword shall perish by the sword.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u65	Madam President! Foreign Minister Soini, you flew a private plane over a year ago to Turkey and told us there that Finland shares the same democratic values with Turkey, and you posed with President Erdogan, among other things, smiling in the pictures. Madam President! Now it would be good to hear in front of the Finnish people: have you changed and have the government changed the assessment that we share the same democratic values with Turkey? Are human rights violations, attacks on Syria against the Kurds, killing civilians, bombing both in Syria and in Finland the democratic values that Finland shares? On this written question which I asked you, you replied that you were gravely concerned about the attack on Syria. Can you say more clearly here that this is wrong and unequivocally condemn Turkey's attack on the Kurds?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u66	Madam President! It is a good thing that there is a balanced text here for Mr Arhinmäki so that it can be read again here — the answer you have received. In other words, ‘Curkki is committed to the values of its Constitution and international commitments, which the European Union shares There are grounds for serious concern about the state of rule of law and human rights in Turkey, in particular as regards freedom of expression." But, of course, you already knew this. Madam President! Of course, the membership process and its criteria must be fully fulfilled. I am interested in whether the Left Alliance has changed its position on the need to abolish these accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u67	Mr President! I understand that it has been good to prepare for these issues because they have been topical for a long time, the situation in Turkey, and I would like to ask whether the human rights reputation of Finland is really in danger now, because Finland, in a way, says with one hand that it is really wrong what Turkey is doing in Africa, for example, but then we have agreements, and we have done nothing to prevent this unholy alliance with Turkey from being respected and amended by the refugee agreements. At the same time, we are sending back refugees to Afghanistan and Iraq, even though France and others... Sweden has stopped sending to Afghanistan, France is not sending back asylum seekers under the Dublin Convention because they feel that we are a dangerous country that is sending refugees back to a dangerous country. What about Finland's human rights countries and our actions, and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u68	Madam President! Among other things, Amnesty International has taken a stand on these issues, and in their letter I have replied that Finland supports human rights and adheres to international obligations. But the refugee agreement with Turkey: What would happen if it didn't exist? 3.3 million people, the Syrian refugee Turkey is currently taking care of. 800,000 children are there at school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u72	Mr President! Comprehensive crisis management is an internationally accepted way of responding to fragile societies after conflicts. Civilian crisis management and development cooperation contribute to root causes that drive people into, among other things, refugees. I would like to ask: at what stage is the development of comprehensive crisis management in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u73	Madam President! Finland participates in crisis management, i.e. militaryly, in Afghanistan, but civilian crisis management in particular is the way to build a society of the future. It can be a form of public assistance and action to help these societies build structures, practices that enable them to take care of these matters themselves. In crisis management, it is particularly important to remember and recognise the contribution of women and also to take account of children, because studies have shown that when women are involved in mediation tasks, crisis management tasks, the conflicts will be better resolved and the crisis management agreements will be more resilient to the challenges they face.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u74	Mr President! Finland's foreign policy must actively and prominently promote peace and human rights also in public and directly affect those countries and regions where these rights are violated. It is not enough to go to the Council of Ministers and to state Finland's position. Turkey has consistently undermined the state of human rights, the state of the rule of law. In Turkey itself, thousands of judges, teachers and journalists have been imprisoned or removed from office and the political opposition has been hunted down. At the same time, Turkey is taking advantage of the unclear situation in Syria, in practice by attacking the Kurds in northern Syria by violating international law. Russia is also active in Syria in support of the Syrian Government, and there are doubts that both sides, Russia and the Syrian Government, together, have committed war crimes. How, Minister Soini, have you directly influenced the leadership of Turkey, the leadership of Syria and the leadership of Russia, condemning and trying to put an end to these acts and promoting an active peace dialogue? Concrete action, please!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u75	Madam President! I will not repeat the answers I gave from this box up to the dates. Representative Niinistö, I can also read them to you on a blog where I have published them in two copies, i.e. they are made. But you were talking about the Kurds and their contribution, and this is the core issue. We must be deeply concerned about this, because the Kurdish peshmerga troops and the Kurds have really taken on a great responsibility to defeat the Isil terrorist group. Now there is the danger that, if these people and this people, who have worked hard and the great victims carried along with it, this disgusting, barbaric Isis has been defeated if they are then rejected and deceived, then there will be a vacuum that is absolutely impossible. In this respect, your question was well-founded, and in this respect we must give the Kurds a confession and help them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u76	Madam President! It is a very good thing that the Foreign Minister is given the opportunity here in front of Parliament to clarify these positions and positions regarding the situation in Turkey too, because it has been impossible for the human catastrophe and the tragedy that is currently taking place there to follow in places, the suffering that civilians are facing. Of course, Turkey bears a huge responsibility for refugees, but unfortunately we have also received reports from human rights organisations on how not all children can go to school and get work. For example, the Council of Europe has raised these issues. Now I would like to ask Minister Soin: how do you intend, for example, to raise the positions taken in the Council of Europe on human rights, media freedom, the rule of law in your future discussions with Turkey?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u77	Madam President! It is very important that we have effective communication with Turkey, for example. I personally know Secretary of State Cavusoglu, and I have met these others here on several occasions. Our message is quite clear: the rule of law, freedom of expression, is the only sustainable argument for Turkey as well. When there was a military coup, 300 people died. Of course, these people must be held accountable, but it cannot be used as a pretext to persecute thousands and arbitrarily separate people from office. This is quite clear, and it has also been communicated to them. And of course Turkey must realise that it is part of the international community, and yet, so that this is not quite easy, Turkey is also part of NATO. And when we look at that situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u78	And one more response.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u79	Madam President! The UN Security Council's unanimous decision has, over time, been the subject of what is known as humanitarian intervention. This means even military intervention, if necessary, in a situation which seeks to prevent massive violations of human rights. The situation in Syria is in crisis, 200,000 civilian victims and 27,000 of them are children. It is, of course, difficult to obtain a unanimous decision from the UN Security Council. As a Finnish foreign minister, it cannot be obtained alone, but I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of whether the world is still as incapable of preventing genocide as it was before.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u80	Madam President! Unfortunately, when, for example, this Turkish operation began on 20 January, the Security Council did not issue an opinion on this issue on 22 January. A month went by, on 26 February I welcomed resolution 2410, and terrible things happened this month. This is a common shame for the international community, once and for all, that such things cannot be agreed upon. It is often the case that there are five permanent Member States, one of which, with the right of veto, block this issue, and that is terrible. Here the great powers will continue to have greater responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u83	Next question: the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u84	Madam President! Recently, we have read in the papers how Finland is increasingly returning asylum seekers to countries where we know that their lives are under threat there, and that is known to everyone. In addition, forced return is used to break up families in cases where people have children born here who speak Finnish and have settled in their new home country. In addition, a religious expert has now been appointed to the Finnish Immigration Service to assess the convictions of those converted to Christians in Finland as to whether the conviction is genuine or learned. The explanatory statement of several persons who have received a negative asylum decision states that faith is not genuine but has been learned. I wonder if there is one person in Finland whose faith has not been learned. Does that learned faith make this person less valuable and less convinced? This procedure is an insult to human dignity and a great shame to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u85	Mr President! Here again, I hope that in the rule of law, the authorities will act, not through government pressure, but through laws and regulations. The Constitution on this issue is quite clear: no one should be brought back under personal persecution, torture or threat. It is for this very purpose that expertise has been employed in the Finnish Immigration Service in order to distinguish as far as possible between situations in which the change of true religion by a person poses a personal threat in the future in the region where he or she would be returned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u86	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u87	Madam President! In time, when a person wanted to carry out an army as a civilian service, he faced a military group that the young man then had to face, and they estimated the depth of faith and conviction in the pursuit of civil service. Since then, the European Court of Human Rights criticised this procedure and it was abolished. Now this procedure has been reinstated by the Finnish Immigration Service — must stand there and be judged: where does my faith come from, is it enough, is it genuine, is it from the heart or not? And I wonder what kind of meter these experts have in their hands, that they are able to measure this depth of religion in man. Let me ask you again: would it not be time to give up the fact that we do not have to face the European courts again?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u88	Mr President! Of course, things are completely different when it comes to assessing the compulsory nature of military service and then on the other hand the situation of a personal threat in return for religion. And I'm sure he's a representative. Mr Laukkanen has also taken into account that if the announcement of a change of religion in itself was a credible basis in all situations, then, of course, all applicants would be able to guarantee themselves a residence permit in that way. That in some way this system must be able to assess whether the condition of the Constitution is fulfilled with regard to the personal threat, persecution or the risk of torture. This is a very difficult task, which we all understand. It is very difficult to carry out an objective study of these backgrounds in an area where it is difficult to obtain information from people whose backgrounds are diverse, rarely documented. But our authorities do what they can, and it is of course also up to us in this Chamber to constantly assess whether the Finnish Immigration Service and, on the other hand, the judicial system have sufficient processes and the conditions to assess this in the best possible way. But there are no individual cases that are going to be called out here. That would be unfair for these applicants.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u89	And one more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u90	Mr President, värderade talman! På mindre än bara en vecka har en unik folkrörelse uppstått i Lovisa. Tusentals människor har ställt upp för att motsutta sig utvisningen av en famil i Lovisa med sju barn — sju barn — varav de tre yngsta är födda i Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u91	Mr President! In this case too, of course, the rule of law is based on the fact that the laws are the same for all, i.e. the conditions that I have already said several times, are the basis for assessment, not on how well the family, for example, has settled in Finland, what has been done here. In accordance with the principle of inheritance for every child, the child of an Iraqi citizen, is inherited from citizenship, and will then be assessed by means of this threat. It is also a general principle which exists in the Finnish Immigration Service that attempts are made, in principle, to seek solutions in which families are given the same substantive decision, rather than, for example, separating children of different ages from different decisions, which is completely humanly understandable, that this would not be a sensible procedure in principle. In this case, as such, I cannot go further in this case, because these are also confidential processing processes, but the general principle here is that this case has gone through the decision-making process of the Finnish Immigration Service as well as our legal system, and it has come to the conclusion that these conditions of international protection are not being met, and in this respect implementation is taking place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u92	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u93	Madam President! In connection with the discussion of last autumn's amending budget, we were well aware of the government's concern about the very poor profitability of agriculture and the very difficult weather conditions of last year, and together with Minister Leppä, in good cooperation with the government, we sought solutions for this, and here too, on several occasions, we have discussed last autumn's crop damage and the difficult situation in agriculture, and that is why this solution has been sought. Thus, in the third amending budget, it was decided that farmers suffering from difficult harvest conditions in autumn 2017 will be supported by EUR 25 million to compensate for the increased machinery and drying costs. The aid would be paid through the agri-energy tax system in the form of a one-off additional contribution and refund. This was considered to be the simplest of the means available, the fastest to be implemented, and also to be best targeted at those farms which have suffered most of all from these difficult weather conditions and for which, for example, increased drying costs have become costs. In other words, farmers would receive a temporary refund of excise duty on light fuel oil used in agriculture during 2017. The additional refund would be paid 7,7 cents per litre and paid for light fuel oil because it is precisely the most important energy sources in the context of the refund of energy taxes and it will hit just these weather conditions. This can be done in such a way that Article 4 of the Act on the refund of energy taxes in agriculture can be applied. The new Article 2 which is provisionally in force would be amended to apply only to the use of light fuel oil in agriculture during 2017. I think that this is an excellent specific measure, which is why it really came to this. Finally, in the context of the amending budget, it was also decided, as part of this package, to clarify the possibility of abolishing insurance tax in the agricultural sector. The Commission has been asked whether this is possible. There has not yet been an answer to this, but today a letter from the bear has been sent out, in which we hope to see a line in this direction, so that this element can also be brought to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u94	Madam President! We all saw, every Finn saw what the crop year was like for farmers in Finland, and it was also very difficult in the Baltic countries. All this on top of how poor profitability has been here over the years. It is therefore good that a good consensus was found in the government, as Mr Orpo said there, and yet a reasonable way was found which is best for those who have been harmed and which can also be reasonably paid, and that is why this additional refund of the energy tax has been concluded. I believe that this is a sign of good cooperation within the government as well. Of course, this does not compensate for all the damage to farmers, which is why these other measures are being considered all the time, including the insurance tax, which has just been mentioned, and which will be able to ease this situation. The situation on many farms is very critical, and that is why these solutions are very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u95	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u96	Mr President! The government's proposal to refund the excise duty on light fuel oil to farmers is aimed at compensating for the conditions of farmers. It is precisely through the refund of the energy tax that compensation is justified by the fact that light fuel oil is used most in tractors, dryers and other machinery. Of course, agriculture can be supported, but I wonder how this compensation will be made. Among other things, the draft law itself states that the additional refund also applies to those farmers whose energy costs have risen only slightly or not at all. So the good question is whether this is targeted correctly. Furthermore, the proposal states that, even if this is a one-off compensation, it entails the risk of continuing to compensate in the same way. It's all in the bill. However, this is fossil support and is incompatible with environmental protection, among other things. The draft law also points out that the possible continuity of this compensation could affect future agricultural production decisions and thus reduce the intensity of environmental governance in energy taxation. All of these are stated in the law itself. The Committee on Finance's tax section must have a broad debate on the subject and whether this is the best way to compensate — in fact, we are currently there — and whether there is any other way. Among other things, the tax section discussed whether this was a fair way of doing things. In fact, I have to ask, when the Minister is here too, whether I have understood correctly: if an agricultural operator uses biofuel oil in his work machine, for example, then I understand that the increase is not directed at him, but only at a person who uses light fuel oil. Is that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u99	Let's take a short debat, that is to say, those who want to use the reply, stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u100	Madam President! Anyone who visited the edge of the grain field last autumn saw those inconsolable visions and understood well, unlike Mr Yanar, which is why this compensation is extremely important. I can say that there was a situation on some farms where we were wondering whether we could buy the seeds of the next spring at all, because the economic situation had deteriorated so much. Indeed, this is a small hand-out: if I were to look at it now, these sums will only move at the maximum amount of some 500 euros, of course depending on how much fuel oil or biofuel oil has been used. However, I would have asked the ministers: Is there enough information on this now, because it is said here that these tax refunds will be paid for the tax year ex post and this should be done in the same context as the tax return? So is it now known to farmers that this must be done in the same context? As I recall, if I looked correctly, there is still a deadline of four months after the tax year has ended, which means that information is now beginning to be the subject of:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u101	Madam President! It is certainly the case that this difficult situation, which many farmers have now faced, needs some solutions. As Mr Yanar said earlier, we have already started working on this in the tax section, we are in the middle of it, and now we are listening to experts. In fact, I would have asked the ministers for the same assurance at this stage, because you are here. This is certainly the question that will continue to arise in our section, that when this tax refund specifically concerns light fuel oil, then some of these dryers will operate on these biofuels, whether there was pellets or other — let us say as an expert —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u102	Mr President! Many times it is important, but sometimes what it stands for is even more important. We all know that agriculture has been in difficulty for various reasons in recent years, and one of the major reasons for the difficulties is, of course, that the difference in costs is too high in agriculture, because the price of food is on the world market and Finland is a reasonably expensive country. I think it is very important, and I thank the ministers here, because I know they are key people, that they have come to an agreement on this issue. In this way, it will be possible to reduce the cost structure of farmers. This time this tax refund is on light fuel oil, and of course there are problems with targeting it, I do not think anyone is denying it, but this is a good line that we should go down this road, because we know that, for example, electricity transmission prices have risen for certain reasons in recent times. They put a particular strain on agriculture, industry and businesses. The government is on the right track with this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u103	Mr President! Because of the weather conditions last autumn, experts say that the drying costs were two to three times higher than normal and the loss of harvest was about 100 to 150 million, and this refund of 25 million to farmers is the best way of doing this. Although 80% of grain dryers currently use light fuel oil, we cannot, of course, be aware of how it is directed by drought. Because this matter can be dealt with as quickly as possible, the way the government is now proposing is the best possible. Of course, it could be hoped that the possibility could be found that this early September, which is supposed to be this return day, could be brought forward, i.e. a way of restoring this 25 million to spring sowings or early summer farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u104	Madam President! As the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kalli, said in his own speech, this is really the only way to alleviate the financial distress that farmers are facing so quickly. What Mr Essayah asked here was whether this was known to farmers: yes, it is. At the end of January, farmers received a tax return form at their home, one of which was attached to this form, which allows for this refund to be applied for. That is to say, it is directly marked with the volumes and costs of the gallons, so that it will then be managed through it. Of course, the problem here is that even this form cannot be quite fairly and fairly distributed, because part of the grain drying is carried out by means of cargo drying and not all farms have their own dryer, and when this cost comes on an hourly charge basis, there is no separate breakdown of this quantity of light fuel oil, which means that such holdings do not have this proportion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u105	Madam President! It is a wonderful thing that the Minister for Finance of the Coalition Party has found ways of signalling this difficult year of crisis. [Speaks about—Educus :Speak about the track!] I am surprised by the point made by Mr Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u106	Mr President! I agree with the views of the ministers, Orpo and Leppä: when the money is as small as EUR 25 million, there was no better way to distribute this fairly to the victims. The representative, Mr Yanarin, could release his concerns in relation to the fact that it is usually a matter of a few hundred euros per farm, perhaps thousands of euros at best, or at least a four-digit total. On average, this additional refund is EUR 690 per holding, according to the Government’s proposal. In other words, certainly every single farm has suffered the loss of harvests and the increase in harvesting and drying costs last year, that certainly this compensation is needed. Of course, much more would be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u107	Mr President! I was a little surprised just now when Congressman Koski started with a half laugh. I think this is pretty serious. That is why the SDP also assumes that these crop damage must be taken seriously. It has now been suggested that there would be a possibility of replacing these hundreds in some way. We are in a situation where, of course, it would be important to find a model that everyone would find in such a time of need, a gesture of goodwill that bears. And it is understandable that, in this situation, we have not found such an undisputed good model, but that this proposal has been brought to Parliament under pressure from many different things. I think it would be a good idea for further work to think about how this quarter, which will not be able to benefit directly from the crop damage after facing this proposal, would also be able to get involved in this. I believe that this is an important issue for the tax section in particular as to how to treat them,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u108	Let us take six more replies to this, and then ministers will reply briefly. So these six are Hoskonen, Kulmunen, Honkonen, Savola, Hakanen, Koski. — Hoskonen will begin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u109	Madam President! It is excellent that this has been done as quickly as possible. It is true that this compensation for farms is really, really small, as Mr Kiviranta has just described in his speech. But what is important is that, as far as we can, we try to help farmers in the difficult situation that these difficult natural conditions have brought them. Now that we are talking about the budget economy, it is probably through the state budget and within the framework of the common agricultural policy of the European Union that it is difficult to find their aid. But I am asking Minister Lepä here, at the same time as there is an opportunity and an opportunity to ask about this: What about this principle of fair trade, which is something we talk about a lot? When, unfortunately, the term ‘fairtrade principles’ is used with foodstuffs imported from abroad, we would make sure that farmers obtain a fair price for the products they produce? I very much hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u110	Madam President! I agree with those who have thanked this proposal, although it is a small amount, even on a farm-by-farm basis and at a national level, but it is very important in this situation, where farmers have had difficulties due to weather conditions for several years, as well as other problems arising from the market. However, if you think about how it will be targeted in this proposal, the vast majority of our machinery and farms will continue to use the light fuel oil, and that is the way in which this can be done. To encourage Mr Yanar that this is very important at the moment when this has to be brought into force. Perhaps I still hope for such ambition when we consider the possibilities that the EU directives give us for a solution to the issue of real estate tax in this country. Although it requires EU work, it is still worth doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u111	Madam President! The situation for farmers is very difficult and it is an excellent thing that this compensation has now been achieved. It is true, as has been pointed out above, that this does not benefit those farms which do not have such a high level of drying costs or other costs as, for example, because they have not been able to harvest at all, as happened on several farms in Central Finland, but this is all the more necessary as a signal. It is true that, for example, farms which have invested large sums of money in the use of bioenergy in drying do not benefit from this, but, in any case, I think that this is a very positive side of the argument, because this kind of strengthening of the mental spine for farmers is really needed at the moment. I firmly believe that every stone has been turned in the ministries, that the best possible way has been found to bring this compensation to this difficult situation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u112	Madam President! However, last year was an extremely difficult year for agriculture: the Celes were what they were and the crops were not harvested on many farms. It is good that there is now a little compensation, there will be relief for distressed farms through this tax relief, an additional refund. We must thank the sisters, this time from the left, for the support that agriculture is perceived as a common cause and this is considered to be the one we look forward to together. So small aid for a difficult situation and the best way to help farmers at the moment. But I would agree with this question that Mr Kalle put to the ministers there: Is there something to be done on this schedule because the bags are empty on the premises? There is a need for all the euro at an earlier stage. Could these additional refunds be paid before that start of September?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u113	Madam President! Very important speeches have been made here on this point. Indeed, Mr Savolak also thanked the sisters there on the left, but also thank the Greens for worrying that the plight of the farmers is real and something must be done about it. This is indeed a small compensation in relation to this damage, but this shows that the government has also, with its compassion, sought out the alternatives that can actually be found. Thank you, Mr Lepän, for bringing the Minister of Finance to this side as well. [Laughter about the downtown group] This timetable, which was raised here by Mr Savola and Mr Kalli, is still a point that needs to be genuinely reconsidered. We need to get that money in the spring now, in order to improve the cash crisis. The fall is far too late.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u114	One more, Congressman Koski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u115	Madam President! Congressman Kiuru is right. If you ever smile, it certainly has nothing to do with this, for in Finland the position of producer has been difficult enough for many years, either due to market fluctuations or excessive weather fluctuations. It is also easy to thank everyone who has felt and been concerned on behalf of the domestic producer for this to the left. Now that this debate is being held, both as a matter for the Tax Section and as a question for the minister concerned, I would like to ask the question whether it is possible, in the long term, to consider whether, in terms of the future, these producers could use their own money, which is now being paid in the form of various taxes, in order to improve their own financial situation. Is there any solution to this in the long term?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u116	All right, then the ministers' answers. Minister Orphan, no more than three minutes from the scene. — Does Minister Leppä wish to speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u117	Mr President! Thank you for your thanks to everyone and thank you also to the large front that is concerned about the Finnish food producer's survival and the success of the farms. But there are a few things: First of all, when it was an honour to be Minister of Agriculture for a year and to get a good sense of what the day-to-day is like, how tight the profitability situation is, it was easy to support this type of proposal, which Mr Leppä prepared, so that it did not require a very large conversion operation. Of course, 25 million is a lot of money, although I understand that it is not enough on a farm to compensate for the great damage and the plight there is. But it is a farm-by-farm gesture that the government cares about the farmer. It just sees how this logic goes: although it is small money per farm, 25 million in our tight budget framework was a big investment when there are plenty of competing targets, as is always the case in this Chamber. But then a few things. First of all, as Mr Kalle said, this is best targeted at where the help and support is needed — it is used for heating, not only for these dryers but also for tractors, woodpeckers, and yet, in some cases, quite a lot of space can catch up to this, even though it would have happened that the crop would not have been harvested in that field. So the accuracy of the match was correct. And if that light fuel oil contains bioelements, then, of course, it will be covered by compensation. But what is important here is that we do not now apply for behavioural changes, because this is retrospectively paid for. So now this is not a new form of business aid, which would now, for example, guide the use of light fuel oil instead of chips and pellets, but is precisely a compensation for the energy used, and once it has been used it has been used to the very higher costs of weather conditions. That is why I think this makes sense. Well, then this payment: The tax administration now sees this money coming into payment at the end of September. But I guarantee that we will do everything possible to speed up that timetable. It is not quite simple when we come to such familiar systems for these farmers — information systems, which so often cause problems with these payment schedules — but everything is done to give them the money that is now being decided and promised to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u118	Madam Speaker! Thank you also, on my own behalf, for the good lunch and the broad support that has been given to this issue from all sides of the Chamber. It is indeed true that farmers need this. Those cashiers are starting to be empty on many farms, and the spring sowings and new costs would have to be cleared up somewhere, but where does the money come from? I would also like to address this focus. We had a wide-ranging debate on the way in which this could be targeted and paid as quickly as possible. This one was selected. If we had gone to build an entirely new system, it would have taken several years at worst, because it would have had to use the Commission as a means of notification, and it is not quite an easy road, and that is why we had to choose from these available methods, and this came up and it was chosen. Then, for those who have actually gone into domestic fuels for dryers — and otherwise it is good that they have done so, that is clear: they are now excluded from this for dryers, but, as Minister Orpo said, tractors and harvesters continue to run on a large part, for the most part, with light fuel oil, and they are able to do so. But it is always possible, of course, to agree between the contractor and the customer on how to proceed in this respect, both in the case of cargo drying and in the case of cargo trees. Several representatives drew attention to the market. Of course, that is the most essential thing that can improve the profitability of agriculture. A fair, fair market is a key instrument. All of this will then be supported by the support system and other government activities that we are doing. That is why the government is also preparing a food market law that can contribute to this and is now in preparation. Hopefully — and that is the objective — that law will be completed this year, and it will have a bearing and effect on the way in which the market works in a fair way, so that we have a fair market economy with a certain possibility that, when the costs are increased, farmers and, of course, other operators must somehow be able to move them forward in that chain. This opportunity for farmers in practice is rather poor at the moment, and it is therefore important that we get this type of measure, as this food market law project is, done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u119	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u120	Madam President! Thank you to the government for this proposal aimed at alleviating the losses suffered by agriculture last year. Last year, as we remember, it was a very cold, late spring, rainy, cold summer and also then rainy, cold autumn, and so there was crop damage, which in fact affected almost all arable crops, and the final result was that agriculture suffered losses of between EUR 100 million and EUR 150 million. This government proposal that excise duty on energy products should now be refunded is the quickest way to alleviate this economic distress in agriculture. Many of the speeches here during that debate raised the issue of how this payment would be made and, as we heard, the Minister for Finance said that it would be the end of September. I hope, however, that the Finance Committee's tax section will find a solution to bring this forward. Now that the tax returns submitted were accompanied by the form in which this tax refund is sought, I think that there would have been a slightly similar system to the one in which the VAT refund is carried out, i.e. VAT will be refunded as early as this spring. Since the numbers are already available in the tax returns submitted, it is also worth examining the possibility that this could therefore be dealt with. This refund will be given 7,7 cents per litre of light fuel oil and a total of EUR 25 million has been earmarked for it. The way in which possible crop damage will then be compensated in the future: We now have this so-called insurance-based system in place, but it would not have worked this year, because the content of the insurance conditions is such that such damage caused by exceptional natural conditions does not fall within the scope of the damages to be reimbursed. Many Member States of the European Union have a so-called financial system for crop damage, which I believe we in Finland should also seriously consider. This could be done, for example, by giving the State, for example, 10 million, and agriculture, for a total of 10 million. Thus, an annual reserve of around EUR 20 million would be available for this fund, and if, for example, crop damage were to occur to a significant extent every four or five years, there would then be nearly EUR 100 million available to compensate for potential crop damage. I believe that this should be considered as an option. This government proposal includes thanks to the Minister for Finance and the Ministry of Finance as well as to the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Forestry. The next item on the agenda is the Food Agency, which also deserves the greatest thanks to the Minister, and it is a great thing for the North Poles in particular that it comes to Seinäjoki. It complements the basic food production and then adds value to Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u122	Mr President! The agricultural sector suffered exceptional loss of harvest last autumn. The costs of harvesting and drying also rose to a high level. During the last parliamentary term, Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's regime was abolished. We do not have an effective crop insurance system available. The additional return of light fuel oil from the gallons used in 2017 in the referral debate threatens to become the only measure to compensate for the difficult harvesting conditions of last autumn. In practice, therefore, this is the case because these other measures are very limited, at least with this information. For the majority of farms, it is only a question of hundreds of euros in this additional refund, only at best a four-digit total is reached and, on average, as I have already mentioned, the additional refund is estimated to be EUR 690 per holding, according to the government's proposal. So it is not a giant matter, but it must also be greeted with great joy that this measure has also been taken and, as a new measure, it has gone beyond a threshold. There are also, of course, interconnectors, such as the use of LPG in grain drying, which are intended to be covered by the energy tax on agriculture from the beginning of next year. I have received a message from the Minister for Finance, Leo Parkkos, who prepares these matters, regarding the fact that last autumn Parliament added a statement on the need for a refund of the energy tax on LPG. This statement was made in the report of the Committee on Finance. For example, those who use wood will not receive compensation under this compensation system, as is the case here, for the simple reason that no excise duty is paid on wood. Consequently, those who apply for grain drying cannot receive compensation through such a scheme. Biofuel oil already has a significantly lower excise duty, which is why it is not subject to any additional refund. To date, excise refunds on agricultural energy products have only been paid in September of the year following the target year. Now, together with the Tax Administration, we need to find out whether it would be possible to bring forward the refund this year and continue, for example, by the end of May. The question is that about half of the excise duty refund applications for agricultural energy products are submitted electronically and about half will then have to be recorded manually in the Tax Administration, which means that there are about 20,000 manually recorded copies, as reported last Tuesday by a representative of the Ministry of Finance in the Tax Division. — We had a preliminary hearing on this matter. In other words, the Tax Administration should now achieve its best and process these 20,000 applications on an accelerated schedule, record them, and then we would be able to know the amount of litre covered by the application for light fuel oil and spend the entire EUR 25 million on additional refunds. So the problem is like this. It would require exceptional work in the Tax Administration, but it is quite possible, of course, to advance this return.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u123	Mr President! Minister! For the second time, I would like to thank the ministers in particular. I think it is great that the government is able to deal with these issues together. The fact that there were two ministers of agriculture and forestry, one present and the other former, I think, has probably helped in this respect too. In my opinion, when we talk about this refund of the tax on light fuel oil, I would not go downhill on this 25 million. In this economic situation and in the midst of many demands, I think this amount is already significant. In my opinion, this is, as it were, a hand-out for farmers and their difficulties, and because there is a tax on this occasion, I am talking more broadly about taxes and, in particular, agricultural taxes. In my view, first of all, we decision-makers must assume that, if the state finances allow it, we should specifically try to reduce the structure of expenditure in agriculture, because, as all parties have said here, Finnish agricultural and food production cannot be based on the fact that every government, one or two times since it is operating, is building crisis packages of different appearances, which will then always ensure this agricultural profitability. It'll have to be built in a more sustainable way. I would like to mention precisely the cost structure of this taxation and electricity, the sum of electricity transmission. At the moment it is very different in Finland, and I think there is already a 2.5-fold difference between the lowest transfer prices and the highest transfer prices, and I think we should go over this in this Chamber some time, too, because of this. That is, of course, because the electricity market law obliges these electricity companies to invest in a way that improves the security of electricity supply to a certain level, and it leads to those farmers — and their agriculture and greenhouses — who live in areas where there is a great deal of forest, having to do land-caching and other measures which inevitably lead to higher transport charges. If something should be done, when there are two tax categories in Finland, tax category 1 and tax category 2, and there are, of course, greenhouses and agriculture through various mechanisms, in the final analysis, when tax refunds are being applied for there too, but in Sweden there are three categories and northern Sweden is a lower area for electricity taxation than in southern Sweden, then, in my opinion, if there is any way we want to level out, because the law forces certain companies to invest and forcing customers to pay higher transport charges by law in practice, it could be considered if the state's economic situation in the future allows those regions where transfer prices increase due to these mandatory investments to be made, in line with the Swedish model, a third tax category which would then further reduce this energy consumption or energy consumption taxation. These are such things that need to be discussed in this Chamber. It is always another matter whether they can be implemented, but we must at least have the tools to suggest that, if there is room for manoeuvre, it will be possible to balance the cost structure in different parts of Finland. Mr President! I'm going to raise this property tax, which is a representative. My angulation here brought up. They tried to get it out of agricultural production buildings, but it was simply not allowed by the Minister. Despite the good efforts made by the bricks, the EU does. But that is what I have been thinking about whether, in some way, it might be possible to do so at home that when new newly invested farmers get big real estate taxes, these depreciations there in the first years would be considerably higher than they are now. That's when the real estate tax goes down. I myself would consider introducing such a mechanism. This could have a practical impact on farmers who have only just invested. They're usually young, too. Help young farmers and support those who then see very far the future of this agriculture and their own business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u124	Madam President! When it comes to agriculture, there is always a great deal of consensus about the things that we want to take forward. This time we are talking about the refund of excise duty on certain energy products used in agriculture, i.e. the refund of the tax on light fuel oil and an additional one that specifically seeks to target relief on the major losses suffered last year by Finnish agriculture. Last year wasn't easy. All of us who cultivate the land know that, and to others the damage was greater than to others. In any case, in the same boat, the drying costs for those who had grain to dry were very high last autumn. This supplementary refund for light fuel oil, which is 7.7 cents per litre, is important for the amending budget, insofar as it represents a total investment of around EUR 25 million, which can facilitate Finnish agriculture. Of course, how this is going to split up between different farms is something that does not apply to all farms now. Those with more drying, those with more cargo drying, then benefit more from this return. It has been calculated that the average additional refund would be around EUR 690 per space, but this certainly varies from a few hundred to four-digits per space, just as Mr Kiviranta described here earlier. In any case, there is not much of a way to compensate for last year's crop damage. It has been considered and calculated by the government that this is the fastest way to provide this additional return and this so-called aid. We've been talking about a schedule here. This would now be due in September, but it is good that Mr Orpo, the Minister of Finance, already here, promised that the Ministry would see if this payment schedule could be available earlier this year, because there is a crying shortage of money on those holdings. Madam Speaker! Much has been done for agriculture this period. The timetable for the payment of subsidies has been put in place, the crisis package has been put in place for those in a difficult position along the way, the red tape in agriculture has been dismantled. The Animal Protection Act, which is about to be discussed, is in the consultation process. It has been able to look realistically at animal welfare in such a way as to avoid excessive additional costs for producers. Origin labelling has been addressed and is being improved, and I believe that this will also be the case. Above all, the value of Finnish food is high in our country, and as we discussed here across party boundaries, Finnish food is appreciated, and that is an extremely important factor. There is nothing we can do about weather conditions, but what we need to be able to do is to make the price of the product better and fairer — that whoever does the most also gets its share of the product. At the moment, the share of trade is very significant in the agricultural product sold, in the food sector, in the middle of the industry, and the producer is the most vulnerable, and that is why we need to be able to tackle this. What each of us can do to influence the position of Finnish producer is, of course, that we choose it from the shelf of the market for the product produced with the swan flag and that we ensure that we have domestic food for sale in public restaurants, as well as that we demand from the restaurants, as customers, that food and Finnish food be traced back to our origins. However, the consumer is the king in this matter, and we are also able to influence that in that respect. But in any case, EUR 25 million for the refund of energy tax is a good thing in this economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u125	Mr President! The plight of agriculture from last summer has already been raised several times in various speeches. In this respect, this additional effort is very important for a number of places. It has been calculated that this increase would be less than EUR 700. Depending on the method of calculation, it is 4 to 6 hectares of seed and fertilizer in the field. For many people, this must be a very important supplement. Previously there was a discussion about this targeting. In my own farm, almost a hundred acres of grain were left unscathed in the field, about 400 tons. Puinn will be carried out by the contractor and the drying will be carried out by the contractor, which means that 400 tonnes will remain in the field for me, but I will not be compensated by this proposal. There are quite a lot of us, like myself, entrepreneurs in this country, to which this proposal and the increase unfortunately do not target at all this time. But even though there are some of these minor shortcomings in this proposal, I warmly welcome this 25 million to Finnish agriculture. That agriculture will certainly need it today, and I particularly thank Minister Leppa for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u126	Madam President! There have been some excellent speeches here. Mr Savola has just dealt extensively with the agricultural situation and also with what has been done for agriculture during this term of government, including this 25 million compensation now under discussion for farms through light fuel oil. But Mr Eestilä also made a significant point here about the way we still need to tackle these issues, so that we can improve the situation by not discussing crisis packages year after year, but by getting the basic profitability, the cost structure in order. This is where I encourage the representative. Eestilä now has a strong debate with the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, to ensure that this property tax issue is in order. This is a matter for the Ministry of Finance, and now we have a thousand dollars' worth of money to sort it out and find solutions to it. From that harvest, from last year: Many farmers are now grappling with their quality problems on the farms there, because the crop collected during bad weather conditions is in storage there. If it is a crop farm, a crop farm, it is now a good deal of commercialism that you get the difference from the goods at what price you can get, and if it is a livestock farm, whether it becomes feed for the domestic animal, what kind of nutritional value it also has, how much more concentrate and feed is needed for it. So this is also a very important question in that, once again, when I come back to that schedule of tax refunds, now that many farms are really wrestling with this sale, that they are not getting grain on the market, that is a very poor means of payment. I would like to stress the message to the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, that this could be paid in the past according to the model of these good examples which has emerged in this Chamber this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u127	Mr President! Despite its shortcomings, this proposal for a temporary amendment to the refund of excise duties on agricultural energy products is very welcome. The system itself has long roots. It is a good thing that it exists, although it is not perfect in its targeting, as has already been said several times here. This change will help to alleviate the economic distress that the very difficult conditions of the last harvest have caused for a large part of Finnish farms. This change is good and necessary, although, as has been said here, the figure is not very large compared to the year we have experienced. As a means of payment, this system is therefore not perfect, but it is the best option we have in this strictly regulated EU world. I therefore agree with the appeal made here that it would be very important for the refund to be paid more quickly than normal energy tax refund rates, i.e. instead of autumn payment, even in summer or even spring summer. This change is designed to replace last year's energy tax by EUR 7.7 cents per litre of light fuel oil. Thus, the energy tax will not be refunded in its entirety, but the tax will now be temporarily refunded more than in the past. The average refund increase is estimated to be EUR 690, such as a representative The column just said. It does not solve the problem of the profitability of agricultural production, as Mr Savola rightly pointed out. That solution to the profitability problem must be found on the market and in the increase in producer prices, as Minister Leppä has already said. This is a good and important addition to the income of farming families in this difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u128	Madam President! It is absolutely excellent that rapid progress was made on this issue and that a good proposal was made by the government and is now being discussed in this great Chamber. It should be noted that the refund of the excise duty on light fuel oil, as a single act in monetary terms, is very small, but it is an extremely painful need. For this reason, it would be desirable if, in Finnish agriculture, a real market price were to be achieved for products produced on their farms. After all, it is incomprehensible that Finland produces the world's best food raw material on farms and its price, the proportion of the food produced, the raw materials purchased from farms, which the store then sells on the market, has decreased all the time. At the moment, it is really so small that you have to wonder why this situation has taken place. I understand that Minister Leppä has done his best here to make the market work a little better for farmers, because without a better price on the market within the framework of the common European agricultural policy, we will never get this thing right, the profitability of farms. That is why this bill, which we are currently discussing, is good and worthy of support, and it is good that it has been brought about so quickly and then made work. But this too is just a very small part of the solution. That is why I very much hope, Madam President, that with regard to farms and the financial distress of farmers, we will be able to move forward by means of a much better price for the products on the market, the fair share that is theirs. As we all know, much is said about the so-called fair trade price for imported food. I have long wondered that it will work on that side and that some Tanzanian or Kenyan coffee producer will be understood, but not a Finnish farmer. That's what I've been wondering in the quiet hours of the night, why this is so. Would it not be time for the Finnish farmer who keeps the Finnish cultural landscape in order to keep the fields beautiful and keep the buildings in order and manage the livestock in the best possible way in the world to finally get to that fair trade price for these domestic farms?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u131	Mr President! As a major consumer of domestic food, I would also like to take part in this debate and I consider this government proposal for a further refund of the tax on light fuel oil to be very fair. 7,7 cents per litre does not sound much, but it accounts for about 10 percent of fuel costs, and that is probably a very fair point of view. As has been said on many occasions, this will be an average of EUR 690 per farm. It is quite the necessary money for a Finnish farmer. And it has also been said that the application does not fall within the scope of this refund, since it does not contain that excise duty. I myself wonder about this payment only in September 2018. Since the costs have already been incurred for the past year, is this the case that the Finnish farmer now has to lend the State that 25 million? That is one way of thinking, and I would really like farmers to receive that compensation right now on the eve of spring, just how technically that is possible. A lot has also been said here that a good price for a product is the only right solution. I also see that consumers should also pay a slightly better price for this domestic food, so that producers can get a real price for what the cost is. Representative As far as the floor is concerned, I would like to point out that it was a worthy speech about how a Member of Parliament does not represent his own interests in this Chamber but the interests of fellow farmers. After all, according to his own speech, he will not receive any of this compensation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u132	Mr President! This temporary increase in energy tax refund is a crisis measure aimed at facilitating the situation of Finnish farmers and farmers due to the difficult weather conditions of last year and the direct regional loss. In recent years, Finnish agriculture has been in really big trouble for a variety of reasons. There have also been some isolated setbacks. On the other hand, there are issues relating to international policy and international trade policy, the embargo to Russia in relation to this situation in Ukraine, and the agricultural and food markets in Europe have been rather mixed up and there has been a crisis of profitability in agricultural countries, even in a little stronger than in Finland, and it has indeed put many Finnish farms in a tight spot. And these rains last year certainly didn't improve the situation. I believe that the Sipilä Government has used all the limited equipment that we have left in our national agricultural policy when we are a member of the European Union, and I would like to warmly thank, in particular, the reasonably fresh one, not quite directly from the farm, but reasonably fresh, Minister for Agriculture, Jari Leppää, who does have a very high level of confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u135	Mr President! Mr Eestilä referred here to the property tax on agricultural production buildings and suggested that the real estate tax on production buildings should be made easier in order to increase the depreciation rate. This is a good idea, by the way, but Minister Orpo's officials have made the exact opposite, and these proposals have been published at least on the public website of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. It says that depreciation is excessive at the moment and reserve-like. In agriculture, the removal of production buildings is almost 1.5 times higher than in business and professional activities, compared to 10 per cent of the undepreciated cost and 7 per cent in business and professional activities. I'd like to show you another way to move on. In my opinion, this company handles agricultural production buildings with no real estate tax was a bit of a wuss to say here in the Chamber. I would like Minister Leppä, with another distinguished agricultural man, Minister Orpo, to take a fresh start on this issue of property tax on agricultural production buildings, if that is what the Commission must ask — but that is what has happened — again. I think it should be manageable, especially since in Sweden there has been no real estate tax on agricultural production buildings in the first place. I do not believe that Finland did not demand this when it joined the EU. Should be treatable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u136	Congressman Eestilä, you've come up, you've got the answer. It would be nice to get up, then press the V button. It is sometimes bounced up for purposes other than simply applying for a speech — if I may kindly remind everyone, not just Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u137	Mr President! Thank you — when the name was mentioned, I thought I would then have the floor, because it was clearly a matter. I would say that it is a fashion today that we are against our own ministers here in Parliament. If my memory does not fail, then, in my opinion, Mr Tiilikainen, which I have supported, tried very hard and probably received support from the rest of the assembly to abolish the property tax. And the money was set aside for that. But at least according to the information provided by Minister Tiilikainen, the EU did not accept it, so I believe Mr Tiilikainen at this point. But I still think that if a way had been found then it should have been carried out. Secondly, with regard to this property tax, so much so that when the consumption of agricultural production buildings is quite heavy, the value of taxation is made up of something and a certain annual level will reduce the tax value if I am right. I merely suggested that in the early years the drop would be fairer, with a lower tax value on real estate tax and a lower property tax, so that we would contribute to helping the newly-invested farms.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u138	Mr President! Last year, EUR 25 million was earmarked for this additional energy tax refund in this year's budget. The return has now had to be applied for by the end of February, so the amount for which the refund has been applied for during the parliamentary procedure will also be confirmed and will be known to us all. I would have asked the finance minister who has just been present: if, now, light fuel oil has been worn out and a refund is claimed for a larger litre than that estimated at the time of the bill, will the amount still be refunded in that planned 7,7 cents per litre of light fuel oil and the money would therefore be spent more than that EUR 25 million? So is it possible to increase the total amount so that 7,7 cents can be replaced by all the gallons applied for? — And now that the Minister for Finance has already left, I could ask the Minister for Agriculture, who is still there, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u139	Mr President! I, too, would like to join in the group of representatives who thank the government for the fact that such a welcome has now been made to farmers by this temporary increase in energy recovery, because the harvest was indeed an exceptional year. And those matters of lobbying will now be taken care of. When we have a Minister with a farmer background and a former Minister of Finance, then the matter is under control. But, more broadly, this agricultural profitability, which, of course, has long been a concern in this Parliament — and of course it is even more a concern in the farms where we live. Of course, this development has been worrying in such a way that although agricultural production efficiency has improved considerably, the number of farms has decreased enormously, the farms have increased, the production methods have evolved, despite the fact that, if we look at the farm-specific results, they have not developed in the same proportion. Yes, it asks what can still be done to improve the profitability of Finnish food production. This issue of origin marking, which has been taken forward, thanks again to the Minister, is an important issue. And then, of course, the export efforts that you have also made and which have been made together are also very important, because apart from the fact that we still need to strengthen the degree of domesticism, there is a certain reality that some products can be better priced abroad, and then it is a good thing that we are able to open up these export markets more and thus strengthen the income structure of agricultural production as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u140	Mr President! This debate on agriculture and its profitability and its measures has been good — and on the measures we hope to be able to take. What may not have been mentioned in the previous speech about these good deeds, which have been achieved, among other things, during this parliamentary term, is the freedom of transfer tax on the exchange of company forms. This has become much positive feedback from these larger farms, which have now also thought about their future. One of the key factors in the continued production of domestic food is that the farmer is able to carry out his work, to do his valuable work and to produce Finnish food. This, of course, requires that its economy be in good condition on the farm and that the work be compensated for. But there are also many other things involved in coping, such as getting help there when you need it. There are various projects that have been carried forward, but the holiday has also been kept at an appropriate level, and attention has been paid to it — and we must pay attention to it, so that we also have a system of vacationing on farms. But I would like to ask Minister Levä here whether there are still some key measures, among other things, regarding the origin labelling of restaurant food and the fairer price formation of trade in general, that we will be able to promote them during this year so that a fair share of the farmer's account bag remains, that we can make this price formation fairer and make agriculture more profitable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u141	Mr President! This debate seems to have already gone into major questions about the profitability of agriculture in general, but let us return it to this particular issue of referrals, that is to say, this departure from this tax subsidy. Everyone — let no one get the wrong idea — believes that the plight of farmers, especially because of this difficult loss of harvest, must be helped. But the problem with tax subsidies in excess is that their match is questionable, and when such exceptions are made to tax subsidies, then we must be particularly careful about that, and certainly the Committee on Finance and the Tax Section are wondering whether it is the right way to deal with this concern shared by all in itself. This raises the question of whether this is certainly fair to those who have suffered the most crop damage. When some of the dryers have been applied for, then, of course, one must ask whether the farmers are now being treated unfairly, who no longer use light fuel oil, who, in other words, have followed the wish of national climate policy and environmental policy to use more biofuels, whether this is the right message, whether they will then not benefit, and whether the incentive is in the right direction. These are the questions that need to be raised fairly here. When I have one more point that I would like to make here, I will present it in that jar of speakers. [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen:Yes,time passed. If you'd like to continue, I'd like to talk to you. [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u144	Mr President! To the circumstances taken up by Mr Haraka, I would like to say that this is a one-off compensation for what has already happened. This mechanism, which distributes this energy tax refund, is by no means in terms of quantity or nature such that it is an economic incentive of any kind or anything that directs any subsequent activity. It is quite certain that everyone in Parliament understands that this is a partial solution to the crisis package as a whole. So, of course, we all hope that we will never again come to the point where crisis packages are needed for agriculture, especially when it comes to exceptional weather conditions and the economic losses they cause.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u145	I would like to thank Mr Kosk for those words. Now it really came to be marked here that the purpose and the will of Parliament is that this is a one-off exception. But all of us who are familiar with the market economy also understand how the incentive mechanism works. It works precisely in the way that the legislator creates precedents that cause people to change their economic behaviour. In this case, the fear is that the switch to biofuels, which I understand is something we are all very much in favour of here, will be delayed in the expectation that such benefits will then no longer be available. It is indeed important that we all say together — and I hope that all the parliamentary parties will agree — that this is only intended as a one-off measure and an exception to the derogation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u146	Mr President! I personally do not recognise any particular negativeness or resentment from Mr Harakka's speech, but perhaps justifiable concern about the way in which these crop damage and roofing situations will be handled in the future. Unfortunately, all forecasts point in the direction that climate change will increase extreme weather phenomena, and this can really come up. That is why I think it would be appropriate to think in this Chamber — and certainly in this House we are already thinking about it — what is the sustainable way of dealing with such crop damage in the future? After all, we gave up this publicly funded crop damage scheme a few years ago. It was imagined that insurance companies, the private market, would deal with this problem. Well, it has not handled it: it has not come to offer such suitable insurance products. Such suitable products would be too expensive. The conditions are really bad, they are not useful. That is why I would like to ask myself about this type of little compulsory insurance, some of which is publicly funded.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u147	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Haraka, for her understanding of the extremely difficult economic situation of farmers. I asked for the floor because I thought I would comfort Mr Harakka by saying that I am quite certain that this small temporary refund of the part of the energy tax will not in any way direct future investments by farmers. We are talking about such a small part, as Mr Pakkanen described, of around 10 % of the cost of light fuel oil, that this temporary increase in the energy tax refund is about the same as the normal fluctuations in the price of light fuel oil. In other words, the investment solutions — whether light fuel oil is used, whether natural gas is used, whether a chip is used, what the source of heat is — are certainly based on broader and longer-term, more comprehensive consideration than this kind of individual
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u148	Mr President! It is a very good thing that Mrs Harakka has also devoted herself to this agricultural policy and is, in principle, on the right track. But when I have had some time to follow up on this agricultural policy, I can assure you that, in the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, although I have not been there recently, it is quite well known what kind of instruments we have at our disposal by means of domestic decisions and how we can help in the situations facing farmers. I am sure they are also known in the Ministry, and I would therefore be quite confident that there is certainly a means which has now been used, as well as possible, for this situation, for the means that have been available and which treats those who have suffered the damage as fairly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u149	And a response to Mr Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u150	Mr President! Thank you, Mr. Satonen. It has to be said that I do not claim to be familiar with agricultural policy, but I am familiar with fiscal policy, economic policy, climate policy and energy policy. The only question was, therefore, whether this derogation to the tax system has already been made and whether the additional derogation to it is the right way to help in this undisputed plight. Since all of us who are dealing with taxes recognise this phenomenon, that when you have to make some progress or have to promote a good thing, someone quickly comes up with the idea that there should be a tax deduction or a tax return, and then the logic and coverage of the tax system and the tight tax base are easily nudged. I have no doubt that Mr Viljanen's information is correct, but I would point out that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u151	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u152	Mr President! We are all dealing in one way or another with taxes, and I hope that this exception will be an exception, but I particularly hope that it will be an exception to the weather conditions and production conditions that farmers experienced last year. Then we would not be faced with situations like this: if there were a normal growing season and normal weather conditions, then such special exceptions would not be necessary for taxation and fuel tax, for example. There can be damage in the future, and I personally hope that if the farming population experiences crop damage caused by natural conditions, i.e. they will not be able to influence it themselves, they will also be managed in the future in one way or another in Parliament. This time, as the representatives have said, this tax subsidy solution was found. This was probably the fairest solution of the existing options. However, with a view to the future, I would consider it most important that consumers pay a sufficiently good price for domestic food in order to improve the profitability of farmers. And we, in particular, who sit in the councils of our localities and cities, could influence it through public procurement by showing that the municipalities would use domestic food in public procurement, and that would provide such a level increase in public procurement, consumers would receive local food and use it. This would significantly improve the profitability of the same farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u153	Mr President! This increase in energy tax subsidies to compensate for the loss of crops was a good solution to quickly find a way to deal with an exceptional situation and, as other speakers have already pointed out, this is something to be prepared for, and I hope that the Minister for Agriculture will continue to deliver good ideas. Self-functioning food production is a question of security of supply. It has highlighted the ability of farmers and also the income level and the way agriculture lives today, but in these weeks it is also important that we use even more Finnish food, as Mrs Pakkanen has pointed out. That municipalities, schools and other public sectors would make purchases from local food but above all also from Finnish food. You, Minister Leppä, have been exceptionally productive with regard to the origin labelling of these foods. In your time, they have been steadily expanded, but one that has now come across some of the problems of the EU is these designations of origin for restaurant food. You have already put things in order that they had to be put in order this spring, that the origin of meat and fish has also been reported in restaurants and workplace canteens, but I understand that, at the beginning of last month, the EU announced that it was not moving forward, and it returned to your table. I would like to ask you: do you have a good way of getting the EU to give in to this perfectly reasonable solution, that a Finnish and a person who goes to a restaurant in Finland and eats at the workplace will in future know what they are going to put in their mouths if they so wish?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u154	Mr. Speaker! For the sake of review, as we have just discussed in the Chamber how this is to be targeted and whether this is the best option, let us say once again that we have sought every possible means and gone through what could have been done to alleviate this distress after a miserable year of harvest, and then we have seen this both in terms of allocation and also in the sense that it can be paid in a reasonable timescale, and I am very glad that you in the Committee on Budgets are still looking for ways to bring forward that payment. Any support we can get for finding a way like that. It is absolutely good. I would also like to say that, as Mr Orpo has already said here, this additional support and reception to farmers is not encouraging the use of fossil fuels. This is in relation to the past, to spent fuels, not to future ones. It's a one-time thing, and so on. In other words, it is a trend for both farms and for the rest of the world to move towards the use of renewable fuels and renewable raw materials and to leave behind fossils. It's obvious, but it doesn't happen overnight. It requires a transitional period, quite long, and that is what we want to be heading towards. But then on to these other things: It is clear that farmers need better economic buffers to face the difficult harvest years and other trials that inevitably come upon farms. It is quite clear, it is part of the everyday business of trying, but now that balance sheet is so thin on the farms that it needs to be improved. That is why this welcome has been made, but it will only be sustainable if the market functions better, more fairly than at present, so that the primary producer, the farmer, also gets a fair share of the market in which profitable activity is possible, and that is why we are preparing the food market law and the related issues in order to enable this to happen. The issue of origin labelling is very important. Thank you for your comments. And as far as restaurants are concerned, although it has now come back from that Commission, we have not swept this away, but we are making a new proposal to the Commission, and I am convinced that we will find a way to do this so that consumers will know what fish, what meat they are eating. That's what this is all about. And the next step from now on is to extend the same to processed products. It is quite clear that this will then continue to the next step as well. Other ways of promoting the current situation in agriculture are, of course, the premiums that have already been mentioned, among other things, and so on, and we must continue to believe that we are not making regulations here that would increase costs, complicate and increase bureaucracy, but that we are continuing on the road to bureaucracy by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u155	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u156	Mr. Speaker! It is therefore proposed to set up a new Food Agency. The development of the central government structure, the agency structure, is part of the structural policy reforms of the Sipilä Government. At the same time, we also want to reform the way in which governments operate, and that is the basis of this proposal. This would therefore combine the tasks of the Food Safety Agency, Evira, and Mavi, the Rural Service, as well as the tasks related to the production of the Agency's information management services with those of the Land Survey. In addition, tasks related to the monitoring of the use of plant protection products would be transferred from the Safety and Chemicals Agency to the Agency. The agency will be named the Finnish Food Agency, and it will start operating from the beginning of 2019. In February 2017, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry launched a project to merge the agencies. The aim of the project is to harmonise and clarify administrative structures, to improve the overall steering of the industry and to support the development of information management. The aim is also to give greater consideration to the views of the actors in the food chain, i.e. those in the food chain, in the context of public authorities. According to the proposal, the Food Agency is responsible for promoting, controlling and investigating the safety and quality of food, agricultural and forestry inputs, animal health and welfare, and plant health. In addition, the Agency is responsible for the use of European Union agricultural aid and EAFRD funds as the Finnish paying agency and manages EU and national payments. The Agency will also have an increasingly important role to play in promoting exports and the related tasks of the authorities. In today's proposal, the staff of the agencies to be abolished and of the IT service centre of the Land Survey Office would be transferred to the new agency from the beginning of next year. In total, the change affects about a thousand, little less than a thousand persons. The proposal provides that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry could set up the new Director-General of the Office and the Director-General of Administration before the Act enters into force. These will ensure a smooth transfer from existing, effective agencies in the context of the merger. The main office of the Agency is the Seinäjoki River, and the staff will continue in their current offices around Finland. About 20 localities have activities and will continue to do so. Once again, the entry into force of the laws is intended to be in all respects at the beginning of next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u157	Mr President! The aim of the food agency reform is to develop a wide-ranging knowledge of the food sector, which in the long term improves service capacity and the operating conditions for the development of primary production. The best part of the food agency reform is where it is located, and on the plains we welcome it. The draft law also highlights the challenges of combining different administrative systems, the need for the development of e-services and the importance and financing of tasks related to food exports. The reform of the food agency is an expected reform in many quarters, because it is an excellent indicator of what the government and the administration have taken on from the tractor march two years ago. At least among farmers, it has not been forgotten how the Agency's unworkable information systems became the fate of many farmers as the poor in financial distress. The food agency reform is bringing together at least two different organisational cultures. As also stated in the opinions, it is difficult to identify significant synergies in relation to the tasks of the agencies. Evira and Mavi will be connected to the new agency of the former Tike IT services from the Land Survey Institute. Although there is a perfectly correct and well-meaning objective of integration, the combination as such does not make the new agency structure more customer-oriented or less bureaucratic. Essentially different ways between the two main organisations, Evira and Mavin, for example, in the management and production of their own information system services pose unprecedented challenges to information management and its development. The Ministry of Finance has stated that the proposal will be specified on the basis of synergies, their justifications, resource savings and the timing of their implementation. Indeed, the tractor march crystallized farmers' dissatisfaction with the failure of Mavi's information systems and the resulting disadvantages. Mavi’s activities were plastered, and since then Mavi has even done a good job — and so it is. The reform of the food agency is also a risk of infecting Mav's disease by harmonising the ict architecture of the administrative sector by introducing a common information management system with related services. So how to ensure that the old operating model does not move to a new organisation? The increase in administrative burdens and costs is more likely to be achieved through the integration of entities into a single information system. Moreover, the reform does not provide incentives to trim or enhance the Agency’s own IT service system. Nor is it flexible within the Agency due to the inevitable changes in the operating environment, because competitive tendering for software services and related solutions in the market is the only way to reduce costs and to have appropriate tools at its disposal. Moreover, automation related to the core tasks of payment is undoubtedly the job of artificial intelligence in the near future. Is there still a need for more than a hundred people to provide solutions in the form of artificial intelligence or purchasing services for their management services? It is noteworthy that, however, the law does not impose a customer obligation on other agencies that purchase IT services, but that the provision of productive services would be agreed upon in service contracts with customers. What if there are no buyers? What if potential customers find more suitable solutions on the market at a more cost-effective and competitive price? What happens to this managing service organisation if customers find these more appropriate solutions elsewhere? Mr President! The second deficiency relates to the registration of the responsibility for the administration of the Office’s export business. As we know, the official work carried out by Evira in the field of food exports is well known and appreciated on the world market. It's about the crown jewel of our official activities. The export promotion tasks must be recorded at the level of the law and as permanent tasks and must therefore also be taken into account in budgetary financing. Parliament has made its position clear and binding on the Minister, including in the food policy report and its implementation plan. The Fund has been the source of financing for export operations over the last three years. It is now clear, at the latest, that export activities can no longer be financed on a fixed-term basis, but that a more sustainable and long-term solution must be sought. With the internationalisation of food trade, the target countries will increasingly impose new requirements, i.e. barriers to trade, on the movement of food. No future demand can be met without current and proven efforts. For example, it may take years for an individual product category to enter the new market. The crisis fund would take care of this for a short time, not a long-term one. Relations with the authorities of the destination countries are also being built up in export work, and these relationships make it possible to move things forward more effectively. If, therefore, current investments disappear, current relations will also disappear. Mr President, Minister! There are also many questions about management and timetable, which I will raise later. I too am a little disappointed that there is no basis at this stage for a more positive speech. I hope, however, that the outcome of the reform will be such that the work that has been done can be commended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u158	Mr President! Personally, I would not be as critical as Mr Koski, who has just made a very critical speech, raising good points. However, I believe that this reform, which brings together the Rural Office, Evira and their IT actors, is one that, however, briskens and lightens our agricultural administration and one door comes less. In addition, I would not be toolittle the input of the experts in these units. I personally think it is very important that this solution strengthens the role of Seinäjoki as a centre of excellence for food, as a competence unit for agricultural administration. I still believe that there is more understanding and confidence for the farmer in the middle of the plain than in South Helsinki, which some have hoped for. I would also like to thank Minister Leppää for the solution of having the courage to put the main place somewhere other than the Ring on the inside of the Three. It was a demonstration of the courage of a minister from central background and of the good work done by the Sipilä Government in regionalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u159	Mr President! Perhaps Mr Kosk’s speech was almost more appropriate here in the mouth of the opposition. However, I myself think that this objective of improving the central administration's administrative structure must be appreciated. But, on the other hand, I understand: Mr Koski raised the concerns that, in fact, one might say, the farming population, or almost anyone in Finland today. When you hear the word of the Rural Office, the first thing that comes to mind is the huge IT mess and the delays in payments that many farmers actually burned down, and the tractor march was quite justified. I would now like to ask the Minister: in what way has it been prepared that such massive and large information systems should now be set up to run into one agency, as it were, so that nothing of the type would come? And in particular, when you mentioned here that these payments for EU aid are still there, they are things where delays are not allowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u160	Well, Mr. Essayah, the time reserved for you has been spent. I have seen the need for answers from representatives Savola, Eestilä and Koski, whether I was right, Mr Pakkanen too. — Reply, Mr Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u161	Mr President! After all, the dismantling of agricultural bureaucracy has been one of the central elements of what has been sought by this government, during this parliamentary term, to move forward. And the fact that the Food Agency is now being set up and is bringing together these key agencies also allows for this red tape reduction. I would also like to encourage this to be followed up and to draw attention to the fact that this agency is starting to function well. The Food Agency, starting from the beginning of next year, will come to the right place. It comes to the household in Seinäjoki, South Ostrobothnia,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u164	Mr President! Mr Koske's speech was good in such a way that he brought up certain things that should actually be raised in this kind of agency reform. I confess that I am not an administrative believer, I am more of an action believer. Now that these kind of big agencies are set up, it is good that it comes to Seinäjoki. But I think it really is that when different functions and agencies are combined, it may take many years before people learn its new culture of action. When the information administration comes in, it must really be considered that the agency’s management will then see to it that it is properly used. Of course, when a new agency is set up, there must be new ways of working, and, for example, information management, as I understand it, is becoming increasingly involved in ordering it directly from the market. In other words, how much it takes for our own special people and as if like a third wheel, remains for the management to assess that it is not then our task to evaluate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u165	Mr President! Indeed, my speech was critical, but so is my concern entirely genuine and justified that, when such a massive reform of the agency is being carried out, it must be done with thought and care. At this point, I would like to raise the issue of the start of the Agency's activities. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry itself opposed the establishment of the State Agency for Authorisation and Control of Creative until 2019, calling for risks regarding the diversity of regional reform and related agency reform. Now, in the case of the Food Agency, the risks relate primarily to the accreditation procedure of the paying agency, to better management of the risks and disadvantages associated with the payment of payments to farmers. The Ministry of Finance has stated that it is precisely because of the paying agency's tasks that there is a greater reform than this creation of Creative. It is therefore not clear from the proposal how these potential risks and disadvantages and additional costs have been analysed, since this accreditation procedure will in any case have to be re-imposed in the context of the regional model. I would now like to see the Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u166	Mr President! With some critical ears, I am listening to this critical debate about the area where the Food Authority is taking its place and starting its operations. I do not dispute it at all, its location is quite the right one, and I am sure that the region has the skills, but the knowledge of rural areas and the food industry can also be found strongly in my own country, Kymenlaakso. I would like the Minister to think, because he knows Kymenlaakso very well, whether there is anything else to regionalise that could be brought to Kymenlaakso. We have a private dairy business there, we have a very good food industry. Kymenlaakso is also known as a strong rural area. There at least this expertise would be found in the province and the location is about an hour from Helsinki, so that I believe that the capital region will also enjoy it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u167	One last reply, Mr Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u168	Mr. Speaker! I'm beginning to wonder what Mr. Kosk is saying. I would now like to hear whether you, Mr Koski, believe that it is a bad thing that we have reduced the number of authorities that control the farmer, the peasant. Should these agencies still be more isolated, and is it a bad thing that this new agency is located, its headquarters will come to Seinäjoki in our common constituency?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u169	I will give Mr Kosk a reply. In principle, there have been quite a lot of requests for speeches in this debate and this is not just a debate between Kosk and Kurvise. Now to Koskelle, and then let us return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u170	Thank you, Speaker! Congressman Kurvise, for the record, I am the daughters of the country. The fact that an agency is located in the home elections does not mean that one cannot think of the interests and interests of farmers and the administration of the whole country. When I took this
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u171	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u172	Mr President! There is a very sensible administrative reform on the table. Based on the presentation, the administration will be smoother. Evira and the Rural Office in the same field and some other elements will be brought together. But I asked to speak on an issue which is quite different from what was discussed earlier and I am sure it will not come as a great surprise because food and food are very important for our health. Experts generally believe that food as a whole is the most important thing for our physical health and consists of food. Evirahan is the Finnish Food Safety Agency. It has done a very good job on food safety and also on food law. But food and health are more than just food safety. Food safety is important, and there is a huge public concern, because we all want to eat safe food, but it is not the most important thing for the health of the population, much bigger is the composition of the diet, for example, it is about salt, sugar, fiber, fat quality, and this is easily less important in administrative patterns. Well, this is where the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is involved, and cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is good in itself, but food is made up of foods, which are therefore within the remit of Evira and the new agency. In this cooperation, we also have the State Nutrition Council, which has historically done a great deal of good work. In the past years, there were issues such as the fight against various deficiency diseases, but now more and more about the quality of food. But it's just a negotiating board. So now we are setting up this Food Agency within the framework of the agricultural administration, as Evira is, and there is a lot of justification for this. From a health point of view, it is a question of promoting health aspects in agricultural production and the food chain. I have heard a lot of talk about the fact that from the field to the table everything plays well, ‘fromfarmtofork’ in English,and is very important. However,it must also be remembered that the second half of the medal,which In other words, agricultural policy must not directly undermine health aspects, of which there are of course historical experiences. As I understand it, Finland is quite a unique or rather exceptional country on an international scale in terms of the fact that the food health administration is under agricultural administration and, as I said, it gives a great deal of responsibility. As far as Finnish food and agriculture are concerned, we all share the hope that Finnish food will be more domestic and that there will be good conditions for its production, as mentioned in the last item on the agenda, and also, as someone mentioned in the previous debate, that healthy and safe domestic food can be used as much as possible in public procurement. And there is therefore a great deal of justification for this, not only in terms of the economy and employment, but also in terms of health and food safety. On average, Finnish food is clearly cleaner. But it must also be borne in mind, and honestly, that it is wrong to say that all domestic foods are automatically healthy. Yes, we need guidance from the administration in a healthier direction and a healthy diet. Mr President! I asked for this floor to express the wish that the new Food Agency should take sufficient and independent account of the links between food and health and its related issues and, more generally, of food safety. And I hope that the status and operating conditions of the State Nutrition Advisory Board, which is currently in office in Evira, will be supported and that good cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will continue and be strengthened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u173	Mr President! I think it is excellent that the Rural Service and the Food Safety Agency should be merged. That new name "Food Agency" sounds pretty good and natural to a normal person like this. What is important is what has also been said in this government proposal that the forced transfer of personnel to a new location should be avoided as far as possible. When the Rural Office was set up, there were some bad experiences. Of course, the Seinäjoki River is an incredibly attractive place for me too, but my son, for example, finds the Seine River much more attractive. Not everyone may want to move to Seinäjoki. It is good to have flexible systems in this regard. This combination of agencies will, of course, provide better savings opportunities for central government finances over time. We can reduce officials from the head that is not the most necessary, and perhaps the same management will be able to do more, that is to say, to run the agency as a whole. Of course, this is a very important opportunity, and it is precisely in the way that retirement is exploited. And then there's one more thing. It is, of course, very important that the flexible management of operations is secured even in this situation of change, and I see that particular attention has also been paid to this in the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u174	Mr President! Minister! This government proposal concerns the Food Agency, and this is an administrative law, i.e. the establishment of a new agency. I shall try to stick to what I have said or to what is similar to it. Today, we talk a lot about the war in Parliament and outside it, and everyone is apparently an expert in the war. The governance model is the most important one we are discussing, and so is the governance model here too. As I said just now, I am not an administrative believer, I am an action believer because it is based on my own life experience in working life and on the governments of some companies. As in the case of war, the most important thing here too will be the management and management of processes. These are the most important issues, not the creation of a new agency and the bringing together of agencies with different appearances with their own cultural activities. Every time a new working community is set up in which different parts of different places are placed, these cultures inevitably collide, and it is not for a moment that they are readjusted. It may take several years. I try to keep this speech constructive, because the Coalition Party supports this Food Agency and is behind it and the Seinäjoki River is an excellent location, nothing at all. Although there is a great deal of room in Eastern Finland, so that if the Minister comes up with an agency at the end of this journey, we would be happy to welcome it to Eastern Finland – that is exactly what we agreed with Mr Essayah. To the extent that I believe that the most important task will be the choice of the Director-General and, whether this is now, the Director-General. These are the key issues that will determine how this agency will function in practice, how things will happen there and how quickly they will flow through. This is all it is, but it is that where we will certainly find such a leader who will be able to carry through its change and cultural change. That is why, in this election of the Director-General and the Director-General, particular attention should be paid to the ability, not to anything else. But if we go a little to these things, what this new Food Agency contains, then I too am of the opinion, which Mr Koski rightly pointed out here, that, in a way, bringing the IT administration into this agency makes this new Food Agency — because the number of staff that will be transferred to it is, I believe, a large one — partly a sort of IT agency. That is why a new leader must assess, in many years' time, of course, how this information management in the future society will be managed, and by what kind of routes this order will take place and how it will go to the market and what role artificial intelligence will play. We cannot use the old culture to move these agencies forward. The central government must also take care of efficiency and productivity. In that sense, Mr Koske's points of view must, at least in this preparation, be taken seriously and kept an eye on the way in which this agency will then deal with practical matters. One such thing — and I agree with what Mr Koski has pointed out — is the continuation of Evira's export operations. At least I myself have come to the conclusion — and then the Minister can correct me if I have got the wrong impression — that during this term of government we have invested in export activities. There have been many times in the committee that it is important for Finnish food to be exported to market places in the world. That's where the market in the world is going to be present. Now here in Evira there is a good fist that supports these export activities and has gone to negotiate with representatives of these different faces and countries. I am in the impression that some people have the impression that in the future these activities will no longer be needed to the extent that they are now, because it is as if we are already gaining a foothold. My opinion is that that foothold will never be reached. It keeps every month and every year it earns again. It requires contacts with people, it requires going there to market places, and that is why I would see that, if it is possible at all, the human resources of Evira's export operations, which may be a little less than a million, or what they are now, 900,000, should be permanent and should be made available to the Finnish Parliament's budget and thus secure, so that these people who are capable do not go to other jobs and are not bought out of it. Mr President! Here are a few things I wanted to raise. Since this is a reform of the administration and a new agency, it is precisely in this Chamber that we should pay attention to certain pains that are important for food exports and for food safety. And it is essential to ensure that there are good leaders who will be able to deal with this inevitable clash of cultures as soon as possible, and in that way the staff of the agency will blow together and all the energy will go into it, not the place of man.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u175	Mr President! The establishment of a food agency, a matter of significance. Combining more agencies, the Food Safety Agency, the Rural Service, part of the IT services of the Land Survey and part of the services of the Safety and Chemicals Agency, part of the tasks related to the use of plant protection products and so on with one agency. This is a very good opportunity to put this much maligned bureaucracy under control. Of course, even the critical speeches that have been made here certainly have their subject of concern, and they need to be taken into account. I believe, at least, that it will not be caught by our competent minister, that it will then not be possible to provide guidance there, and when these people are elected, people will be looked at who want precisely to get rid of red tape and focus on the core activities that the Food Authority will have. In all of this, you must remember to take care of the customer service task specifically, who that customer is, what is the key customer here in the background. It is, of course, a farmer and the fact that there is no extra burden for the farmer's work through bureaucracy. There is plenty of that in all the paperwork farmers have to do. There will certainly be stumbling blocks in the tasks related to information management, but they can be overcome when well designed. This is a good time for the beginning of next year when these agencies are being merged. I would also like to say that I am very pleased with this location, which will come. We in South Ostrobothnia thank you for this. The food cluster is very strong in South Ostrobothnia around Seinäjoki, the whole region. They have invested in training, they have invested in food processing. There are a lot of farmers there, there is expertise around this issue, and I believe that the Food Agency will have the best potential experts in the future, and the province will also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u176	Mr President! This establishment of the Food Agency is a very important issue for de-bureaucratisation and for better, more functional services for farmers. In particular, of course, I would like to congratulate my colleagues on the fact that, in my opinion, the headquarters of this agency, as a Lappish Member of Parliament, will come to the right place if we look at the strength of the province of food production. Of course, there are many in Finland, but it is certainly important that the provinces profile in particular, and South Ostrobothnia has good elements for this. In fact, this is also the content of my speech that I was going to apply for. It was very important, for example, when the Metsähallitus Act was under discussion — which was pretty much a control for our northern people — that, however, its Metsätalous Oy was located in Rovaniemi, where the largest Metsähallitus natural resources are. Yes, it has a very important symbolic significance for Finland as a whole and for the regions on which this country is built, so that they can profile with their own styles. Hopefully, this regionalisation by the government will continue, and these provinces will now have a hard place to show what they can specialise in. If you look at a court office, for example, Rovaniemi offers it excellent places of establishment. And yes, I think we should look at what is happening in other countries in the international and global world, and it is quite exceptional how the neighbouring countries have started much more strongly from the fact that regional development must be steady, and are even regionalising important activities — in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and even in our southern neighbour Estonia. It must be built on the regions and resources of these regions, and I agree with what has been said here earlier: Finland still has a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u177	Mr President! One of the central objectives of the government is to reduce standards and regulation. This combination of Evira, Mavi and some parts of the Land Survey into a single Food Agency also pursues this objective, as we have heard several times here. The food sector will also become increasingly important to Finland in the future. Therefore, the efficiency of the sector and the attitude that serves the customers of the public administration tasks will also improve significantly. Traditionally in Finland, primary production and the food economy have been subject to strict supervision and control by public authorities, which many entrepreneurs have experienced as direct bullying. It is good that these important organisations also seek significant changes in these governance practices during the Czar regime. The reform of the organisation will also allow us to further increase the customer grip that serves us. If anything, there is a good chance for the whole industry and for those working on it. Mr President! The location of the Seinäjoki is also good in this presentation. In many of the northern European countries, the increase in regional jobs has been significantly increased by the decentralisation of central government agencies. Finally, we too have reached the lines of neighbouring countries in some area of regionalisation. This Food Agency is an example of regionalisation, because food, if anything, is produced in the provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u178	Mr President! 10.3.2016 The tractors rolled into Helsinki. It became clear from the signs of a massive but peaceful demonstration that farmers did not go off for fun, that the tractor march was set off due to deeper distress. One of the main messages of the march was the need to strengthen the legal protection of farmers. At the time, the finger pointing to the agricultural administration, in particular the Rural Office, which had announced a moratorium on payments of agricultural subsidies for administrative and technical reasons. It was already quite clear at the time that the rule of law cannot be applied in such a way that farmers are forced to commit themselves to the conditions of support and to implement them in their spots and on time, but that this same procedure would not be binding on the administration. I understand that there are challenges to governance, particularly in the areas of the art of EU funding periods or in the context of changes in information systems, but it also seemed quite clear at that time that partly overlapping management was not fully up-to-date with its tasks. At that time Mr Tiilikainen, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, addressed the issue, and now, by Minister Leppa, the issue has reached this point where the agricultural administration is being strengthened by combining the Rural Office and the Food Safety Agency with a few functions of the Land Survey. The aim of this closer management is to achieve more effective and faster action, which will also help to strengthen the legal protection of farmers. This change is a welcome change which has already been expected and which must now be implemented as soon as possible after the adoption of this law. Mr President! To ease things a little, I can say that if the creation and accreditation of a new agency is as difficult a process for South Ostrobothnia as Mr Koski has said here, in particular, the rhythm of the reform of regional government, which is already well under way in South Ostrobothnia, then I can give Minister Leppä a free tip that we in Uusimaa do not have this problem of rhythmisation. Thanks for this are due to some of the key politicians in the major cities of the capital region, who have slowed down the preparation of regional and social reform in Uusimaa to the very last. Although South Ostrobothnia is a good place to invest in the agency, if this turns out to be too difficult, there must be alternative places, as representatives of Pakkanen and Eestilä, for example, have already said. But thank you again to the former Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Tiilikainen, who pushed the change forward, and now to Minister Leppä, who has received it so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u179	Mr President! The Government's proposal to set up a Food Agency is good and well-founded. After all, this proposal is quite clearly in line with the Sipilä Government's policy of dismantling red tape and, of course, it must always be greeted with great joy. Two agencies, the Food Safety Agency and the Rural Service, will now be brought together to create this Food Agency, and there will then be tasks for this agency relating to this computer side, i.e. the provision of IT services for this new agency to be set up, and then some of those tasks related to the monitoring of the use of plant protection products from the Safety and Chemicals Agency. All of these will be in one agency now. That is a very good thing. However, I think it is very important that, now that the new agency is set up, this integration actually seeks to lower the administrative thresholds so that we do not repeat the dramas that were here the other day, as Mr Eerikki Viljanen said in his speech, that is to say, the days when farmers came here on a tractor march to show their minds, quite rightly, when payments of agricultural subsidies were delayed, delayed and delayed, and on the basis of computer problems — or whatever the criteria were, I cannot remember all. However, at a time like this when Finland is now living in a country of some degree of digitalization, the basics of this kind should at least be in order: that when payments are made they are actually being handled quickly. I don't think there's going to be any computer problems or software problems. Yes, such things must be controlled, and if a computer programmer does not know how to do so, then one must acquire a master who puts it in order for the payment program. The plight of farms today is so severe that there is no room for late payment. The money paid to many farms in time is a rescue to the fact that the farm is generally able to continue its activities. And as far as this red tape is concerned: This is a very important issue, and the Seinäjoki River is certainly the only and right place for this agency. It is at the centre of our agriculture, the largest production area certainly measured by all indicators. Of course, there are many, many areas in Finland where efficient agriculture is practised, that is true. Let's just say there are huge dairy farms in Savo, for example in one of the municipalities of Kiuruvesi. That Milk Finland is there, and many other centers can be found in this country. But the Wall River in principle is certainly the best option. There are already traditions there, and this existing agency is being strengthened, which is why I believe that this integration benefit is very important and worthy of attention. Finally, Mr President, as far as these debates are concerned, about the help or weakness of decentralization, all I can say is that, over the years, I have been somewhat surprised by the fact that nothing can be taken out of Helsinki in general, everything should be brought here. Take, for example, Metsähallitus. With the exception of a few small farms, Metsähallitus has no forests here. The forests of the Metsähallitus, or state, begin roughly as they are roughly described, at the height of Ilomantsi, my municipality of residence, from the eastern border, spreading northward so that they are already a large part of the whole municipality's area at that height in Lieksa. One third of the area of Ilomants is owned by the State, In Lieksa, about the same class, and when you go north, almost all countries are state countries. Nevertheless, the central office is in Helsinki. Nor can it be the argument today that things are not being learned or that information technology is not working. For example, in my municipality of residence there are 100 megabits of optical fibre connections. When I sit at home in front of a computer, I have just as fast, even faster, fibre optic connection as I do here in Parliament. So that's no longer a problem. I hope that this decentralization and régionalisation, as they say today, will one day be genuinely moving forward, because I cannot believe that concentration will ever bring great benefits. Moreover, when these crises occur in the world from time to time, if all major locations are put in the same place, there is a huge risk involved. All of us remember the times when there were big crises, such centralized solutions turned out to be very bad when huge risks were taken in a small area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u180	Mr President! Administrative reform is indeed at stake in this proposal, and the establishment of the Food Agency in Seinäjoki is, of course, a good thing. The critical debate is probably due to the fact that there are many politicians from all over Finland who would like to see the Food Agency or the agency in general in their own territory. There are a number of legitimate reasons for this. It is true that the region or region from which it comes is a typical food production area in this case, but there is also this aspect that a lot of staff is usually transferred to work with the agencies. At least I would like to, because we are a region of migration loss, that Kymenlaakso, South-East Finland, should also have something like this regionalisation. It would always have a positive impact on the region's livelihood and vitality. This merger between Evira and the Rural Office — and a few activities from the Land Survey and chemical issues — is an important administrative reform for the rural population and the people involved in agriculture. That is why I warmly support it, and of course the Seinäjoki River is a good place for that agency. It might be said that food from the provinces would also mean that agencies in the provinces, because there is also a strong other vitality in the region where food is produced, there is industry, so we could also transfer these agencies to the regions in this spirit of regionalisation. I therefore hope that Mr Leppä, if he did, at the end of this parliamentary term, there will still be some activity in those regions, and of course Kymenlaakso will be a good place to address it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u181	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Finnish Food Agency — I would like to say, as a food person, that wow, at last. Overall, this proposal is very sensible and worthy of support, since the aim of this proposal is to harmonise and clarify administrative structures, to improve the overall steering of the industry, and to promote the development of a culture of operation and information management and to take greater account of the views of the actors in the food chain in the activities of the authorities. All things that are infinitely good and worthy of support. It has been thought that combining agencies would contribute to the development of e-services and the implementation of the one-stop-shop service principle. The creation of a new Food Agency is expected to lead to a reduction in the number of senior management and administrative tasks. In addition, operational changes in the reform of the Agency are expected to eliminate overlaps and enhance the efficiency of the performance of the tasks. These, too, are all things I dare to think that there is certainly no objection in this House to them in any way. But then, as far as the challenges of this proposal are concerned, some commentators in the consultation have been concerned that rural policy and economic considerations can have an overemphasized role in the Agency in relation to food safety and animal welfare objectives. In addition, the second challenge is that the consultation was concerned about the date of the establishment of the Agency at the beginning of 2019, although it has important links with the regions to be set up. Amongst other things, these concerns need to be clarified in committee work, but otherwise, overall, this proposal is very much to be welcomed in its kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u182	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for having been here for a long evening and listening to these speeches. In my debatable speech, I raised the central question that has been raised here as a matter of concern to a number of other colleagues, namely how now, in a major agency renovation and integration of this kind, we can ensure that these well-known problems in the information system of the Rural Development Agency do not follow that new agency, and especially when it is said here that the development of information systems as a whole is now an objective, there is certainly a huge challenge here. In many speeches, different agencies have been lobbied in their own regions. I must say that I am extremely pleased that it is precisely the Rural Office, could it be said, that it has been decided, as it were, to consider this future Food Agency in the province as a follow-up? And if we look at it, then there is such a very strange, colored discussion in Finland between us that this regionalisation would be something terrible, and such things as some kind of bridge drum tone is always used in these speeches, so just now there was a Nordic comparison, which found that in other Nordic countries there is much more of this regionalisation by those states than what we do in Finland. And in that sense, I think it is important that Finland as a whole should be taken into account when considering these locations for state agencies. Just towards the end of my debate, I raised concerns — perhaps even a little over time at that point — about the role of Evira. Evira is known as an agency that specifically serves a wide range of organisations, communities, including food aid organisations in Finland. I have the impression, which has come through these organisations, that it has been a very serviceable agency, and I hope that this spirit in Evira will now spread to this new agency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u183	The debate on this is... At the end of the day, until Minister Leppä wants to spend 2 minutes on the spot — or from the podium, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the good debate and good lunches and good remarks and also for the critical weights that have also been on the table throughout the preparation of this Food Agency law. It is very important that Parliament now goes through this carefully in the committees, if there is something that needs to be corrected, because it is the big objective of making our administration easier, more integrated, more modern, more customer-oriented, and if it does not happen for some reason, then I would like to register for such changes now, that is, I am, of course, always ready for them, that is quite clear. This has to work. It's equally obvious. And one of the key messages that I had in connection with this preparation was that late payments must no longer be allowed to take place — it is quite true that they have been, and they have now been made better, especially with regard to the Rural Office — and it is therefore important that lessons have been learned from what has happened in the past. One important point is the promotion of exports, which many of you raised. It is certainly one of the main tasks, one of the numerous tasks that this future agency has, and it is quite clear that it must have a long-term agenda, both in terms of administration and funding. And we only have markets in the world where we cannot access the market without agencies, without our administrative assistance and regulations and regulations which will then have to be identified by those customers in the world. It's really important that it gets taken into account. Food security is not compromised. It is quite clear that the balance between the various tasks of the Food Agency, as has been pointed out here, must be good and it must be under control all the time, it is obvious. The Agency's substance does not change from the present, i.e. the tasks of the three bodies which combine them will remain the same, the same. So there will be no change. But, instead, in modernising it, we still have a lot of work to do. And when people here are concerned about IT systems, that is something to be concerned about. It also includes and includes private actors all the time, and I have already seen that the IT cluster has clearly increased private services in different areas of rural administration, and that is only a positive thing. There is also much new that is needed for public administration. This sector is a highly knowledge-intensive sector and needs to be given a great deal of weight. President! At the end of the day. This agency will continue to operate in 20 different locations. It is significantly effective all over Finland. It belongs to this species that it works all over Finland, it makes sense too. But the coordination that comes with the new agency is extremely important, and that is why this law proposes that all these things be fulfilled, that we should be able to choose both the Director-General of the Agency and the Head of Administration before this law comes into force. It is important in terms of continuity, so that it is gradually reformed into a single agency as smoothly and smoothly as possible. Thank you for the debate!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u185	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u186	Mr President! This audit report has reviewed the audits and supervision of party funding for 2017. In fact, there are two points that I was thinking of raising in my own speech. First of all, it has raised these candidate fees and so-called parliamentary fees, which are paid by many district organisations and through parties. It has been pointed out that these have not been properly recorded by all the district organisations. I must say that perhaps part of the reason may also be found here in the practices within Parliament. In other words, I understand very well that Parliament does not leave when these payments are withheld, to account for dozens of different district organisations, but they are done through the party, so to speak. And then I know from the district organisations that not all district organisations can necessarily distinguish that this is the so-called parliamentary fee, but may then register it as a party subsidy to the district organisation. I believe that this, at least in part, explains the lack of clarity that has been raised here. The second point to which attention has been drawn is the statements made under section 9c of the Party Act of the Audit Report. Well, here you can say that the National Audit Office almost could send entries. I myself was the party secretary at the time when these statements became mandatory and there was no basis at all. I remember the moment when the auditor and the auditor worked out what form of statement should be written on it, because there was no sort of instruction, no wording available from it. In that sense, it could be said that, when party activity is an NGO activity, it is voluntary activity and that there are few people who are paid,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u187	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 1/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u188	Mr President! The Government's proposal now in the feedback debate is to harmonise the wording of the Tax Procedures Act with the wording of the mandatory automatic exchange of information provisions of the Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. These are situations where a foreign parent entity is domiciled in a non-EU country where it is not obliged to prepare a country-by-country report or which is not involved in international exchange of information. In this case, the Tax Administration will not receive a country-specific report on the country of the parent entity. In these cases, the Tax Administration may oblige a company belonging to a Finnish group to submit a country-specific report on the basis of a subsidiary clearing obligation. However, the Finnish company may not have the information required for all reports for the entire group. In this case, the company can fulfil its obligations under the current law by providing the information it has at its disposal. The law would be amended so that the Finnish company would be obliged to request information from a foreign parent company and, if the parent company refuses, the Finnish company will fulfil its information obligations by providing the information it has. A parent company outside the EU can also demonstrate itself that it is a company located in an EU group that provides information on a country-by-country report. The law would now be amended in such a way that it should not be possible to identify a company which cannot actually have access to all the information necessary for a country-by-country report. Mr President! The committee's report was unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u189	Mr President! Although this amendment of the law is very technical in itself, i.e. it is a question of harmonising the wording, as Mr Kiviranta has pointed out very well, it is an extremely important issue in itself, namely that this amendment of the law, which is behind it, aims to prevent tax evasion and to improve this country-specific reporting. Of course, this is an issue in which international cooperation is needed. I recall that when I started to talk about the need for an automatic exchange of information between tax authorities during my time in the EU, it was considered a truly distant goal. But if there was something good in the economic crisis that hit the EU, it was at least the fact that every Member State had to take care of its own tax resources and really look after them more closely. The economic situation that existed then in the EU Member States was, for its part, contributing to the fact that, indeed, each country began to look after its own tax money, and that was how this automatic exchange of information was promoted. In fact, it could be said that the last countries, which in it were so-called buckets, were Luxembourg — perhaps known as such a bankland, perhaps not so surprising — and Austria, which was suddenly one of these countries, which at the end of the day raved against it, but then finally that regulation was brought forward. In that sense, it is extremely good that today we have at least a little more instruments to prevent this tax evasion, and indeed every Member State will receive the tax revenue needed to maintain its own welfare state.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u190	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 1/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u191	Mr President! I present the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on this proposal. It is a proposal which provides for supplementary pension rights for workers and professionals. The law would implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum standards for the promotion of the mobility of workers between Member States by improving the acquisition and retention of supplementary pension rights. In addition, the implementation of the Council Directive on the protection of supplementary pension rights for employed and self-employed persons moving within the Community would be complemented. The Act would not apply to statutory pensions and is intended to enter into force on 1 May 2018. Mr President! According to the committee, supplementary pensions under consideration are of minor importance in Finland. However, in most Member States the pensions covered by the directive provide a significant part of pension provision and in many countries the only part linked to earnings. The committee notes that the directive is, in principle, very inappropriate for Finland's pension system, where the use of supplementary pensions has been different, as supplementary pensions have been used in Finland as a general rule for the commitment and remuneration of employees. The committee is in favour of this draft law. It is good that the directive is being implemented without further national regulation. The committee also considers it important that the proposal makes use of the limits allowed by the directive and allows for practices that facilitate administrative work. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u192	Mr President! This bill, too, is based on a directive, and I can say that my hand has been involved in this, too, because I was shadow rapporteur when this was discussed in the European Parliament as shadow rapporteur for my own EPP group. In fact, the reason why I absolutely wanted to get there was to check that this had nothing to do with the Finnish statutory pension system. After all, when we have this supplementary pension scheme as so-called third-pillar pensions, which are mainly related to the commitment and remuneration of employees, we had to consider all the time that those wordings remain so that they do not hint at the statutory pension side, because these limits have been extremely important to Finland. These have, in fact, been considered there in our EU accession treaties at the time that this system of ours is what has been developed here over the years, and we do not want it to be subject to joint EU regulation to any extent. It has to be said that when there was quite a lot of discussion about these European pension systems, many of them are extremely fragile. It could be said that in the Nordic countries, Germany, Austria and There are pension systems in the Netherlands, whose sustainability is guaranteed, but then we have a huge number of such pay as you go systems that do not fund even partially, then not to mention Eastern Europe, where I remember in Hungary even in those years there was a situation in which the government budget was suddenly taken over by public pension funds. It must be said that, in that sense, our Finnish pension system — although every time you visit that market you could imagine that it is extremely bad — is one of the best in Europe and, in that sense, it is worth protecting and protecting. As Mr Kiuru said, this really does not have much effect in Finland, and in that sense it can be implemented here without concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u193	The 19th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 2/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u194	Mr President! I present this report on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Firstly, the proposal proposes that the National Institute for Health and Welfare no longer conclude contracts for the provision of shelter services with service providers, but rather decisions on the choice of service providers. In this way, the State compensation to the Shelter Service Provider would be paid in the future under the State Aid Act. Specific criteria for the allocation of compensation would be waived. The committee notes that the abolition of contracts with service providers and the transition to a system based entirely on the State Aid Act will simplify the current state of affairs. The committee notes that the transfer of responsibility for organising shelters from municipalities to the state has brought financial stability and enabled the expansion and planned development of the network of shelters. It is also good to note that access to the service has been made easier when there is no longer a need for commitment, and regional equality in access to the service has thus improved. The committee very much welcomes the fact that it has been possible to significantly increase the number of shelters since the Istanbul Agreement entered into force in Finland in August 2015. However, it should be noted that the amount recommended by the Council of Europe working group, that is to say 500, is still a long way to go in Finland. In addition to covering the real need, it is important that a service that needs services is reasonably accessible in all parts of the country. Preventive open services under the responsibility of the municipality, as well as support services after the shelter period, should cooperate with shelters in such a way that the cycle of violence does not arise or can be broken. The Committee would point out that organisations currently produce most of the shelter services and their competence in the post-turvey home support services is highly appreciated. The expertise of the organisations should continue to be used in the provision of services to the regions. Under the current regulation, the head of the shelter must have the qualifications of a social worker and a postgraduate degree in social welfare and health care. The Committee would point out that the current qualifications of staff are one of the key elements in ensuring and harmonising the quality of particularly demanding service. The report is therefore unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u195	Mr President! This report states that the development of sheltered homes is certainly positive in itself, but of course it reflects the situation that we still have domestic violence in society and, of course, that prevention and early intervention should also be able to allocate funds. It is important that this change in funding is now made directly based on the state aid system and not based on these agreements. But, of course, it would have been quite interesting to hear how much discussion took place in committee on how this regional government might then change this situation. This report has already expressed concern about the long distances in Northern Finland and the way in which this safe house activity can be ensured in regional terms. In that sense, it may be said that when this part of the provincial administration has so many of these questions in the air, it is worrying how we will be able to manage there in the future as a service provider within the province, when there is just this type of work, with the strong knowledge of the organisations in the background. If Mr Kiuru had any further information on this, I would have liked to have heard the extent to which these concerns of the provincial government were raised in the expert consultation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u196	Mr President! I am the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health at the beginning of this debate, so I did not hear this whole debate in the course of the expert consultations, nor did I hear all the discussions in this regard. But to some extent I know this field, and the discussions I have witnessed indicate that there is an important work being done in Finnish shelters. This is the direction in which the Istanbul agreement is now being respected, and it still requires quite a lot of work. After all, the recommendation of the Council of Europe is in practice only a recommendation and it is important to move towards it. It is also important that these services should be available across the board, and quite rightly it is pointed out that this is not yet the case. And there is also this reasonable accessibility, which is then a need for fine-tuning in the same theme, where we still have a lot to gain. On the other hand, the representative also asked very well about these preventive open services with which shelters have been working. In other words, the municipalities have played a very important role in the organisation of preventive open services, and the support elements that have been established since the shelter period have, of course, been made in conjunction with the community’s open services. Of course, the big challenge here is how to secure this well-functioning care chain in the future, and in that respect the committee has wanted to point out that, when these services are now transferred to the province's responsibilities in the future, then we must be careful not to split up or destroy effective care chains.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u197	The 21st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u198	Mr President! After yesterday's debate on the mid-term training issue, which was very diverse and comprehensive, it is good to continue on these issues. Under the current legislation, a child under the age of 13 may have a school trip of up to 2.5 hours and a school trip of over 13 hours. There are about 120,000 children in school transport every day in Finland, so the time spent on school trips is of great importance for the daily lives of a considerable number of school-age children and their families. In Eastern Finland, one third of the children are already in school transport. It is not in the best interests of the child to sit several hours a day in the car. In recent years, municipalities have closed down schools, centralised services, which has clearly extended children’s school trips, since they have to travel to larger schools further away. Often the 15-minute direct car ride lengthens up to an hour, as many municipalities have arranged taxi rides and bus rides so that the school ride does not take the most direct route to school or home but goes around on small roads to pick up students. Children who suffer from travel sickness are already sick in the car and are often sick in school during the morning. It is clear that children’s studies suffer. With the abolition of schools and the extension of school travel routes, municipalities have applied for savings in basic education. At the same time, children’s everyday well-being has deteriorated when it takes too much time to travel to school. As a result, students who are tired of waiting for a school ride, long journeys and sitting in a car, difficulty in concentrating in classes, and even less learning outcomes. In closing schools and in making school travel arrangements, municipalities have neglected to consult children, to examine the best interests of the child and to assess the impact of children on the issue which is most relevant to children. The schooling of too many children has become more difficult and the well-being of everyday life has deteriorated. As a result of failed attempts to save money on the municipal school network, the exercise of children’s rights, including the child’s right to play, exercise and leisure as referred to in Article 31 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, has been sidelined. For these reasons, we who have signed this bill want Parliament to amend Article 32(2) of the Basic Education Act to include ‘a pupil’s daily school travel expectations for a maximum of one-and-a-half hours. If the student is 13 years old at the beginning of the academic year, the school trip should not exceed two hours’. Mr President! President Paasikivi said wisely in his day: ‘It’s important to teach the people,that they should have the raw material in their early days.’
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u199	Mr President! The initiative as such intervenes in an important matter and, on the basis of that article, it is acceptable in itself, although it might have been desirable for it to have included some calculations as to the extent to which such a problem actually exists: how many children it affects and what it could cost to correct it. However, I cling somewhat to those arguments for the bill, namely that it has a rather strong attack on municipal decision-makers, because these matters are being decided in municipalities, and I believe that many of the signatories to the initiative are themselves municipal decision-makers. Is it reasonable, however, to accuse municipalities of failing to consult children, of failing to assess the impact of children and even of any action contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child? Is this really reasonable to the municipal decision-makers, and are they making these decisions now entirely malicious? I do not believe it, but I believe that the austerity pressures are due, for example, to the obligations imposed by the State and, on the other hand, to the cuts in state shares that the previous government in particular did some of. In other words, the austerity pressures of municipalities come from there, which could be alleviated by money and, on the other hand, by reducing obligations. Now, however, if such a positive obligation were to be imposed on municipalities, it would also be desirable to present the money by which the municipalities would fulfil its obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u200	Mr President! The bill prepared by Mr Taavitsainen is very welcome — and the bill that addresses a problem which, I dare say, each of us has at some point been contacted in the role of either a representative or a municipal decision-maker. Every adult should simply understand that excessive school trips not only exhaust us but also cause anxiety in classes. Long school trips even make learning outcomes worse. There are no separate studies on this, but that conclusion can be drawn from, among other things, the Pisa studies in comparison quite easily. Many municipalities have reduced the school network, and unfortunately the trend is such that it will continue to be reduced, partly because the number of children is falling. The question is justifiably whether the child's dignity is being increased by means of a school ride, 2.5 hours a day. When I Googled this subject today, an article came to my attention about a 10-year-old girl who spends three hours waiting for her to go to school. I see this in such a way that no child should be created in such a way that school trips take three hours and wait. Not only do I feel that the situation is unreasonable, but I began to wonder how much less time this girl has left to do her homework, spend time with the family, or engage in hobbies than, for example, a child whose daily school trips take place in less than half an hour. Mr President! It is often stated in this Chamber that we are one of the first, in a negative sense, to be among the recommendations and obligations from the EU. I would like to point out that there is a recommendation through the EU which allows school travel to take up to one and a half hours a day. The question therefore arises as to whether it is not time to act in accordance with the obligation that came from the EU. I think it would be in the best interests of children and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u201	Mr President! School travel standards in Finland are almost twice as high as the recommendations of the European Union, just as a representative The trout in that speech said so. In other words, the EU recommendation on the duration of school trips per day is 1.5 hours, while in Finland it is 2.5 hours and in larger children 3 hours. For example, the UK has introduced EU recommendations so that they do not have more than 1.5 hours a day in primary school or 2.5 hours a day in secondary school. The Regional State Administrative Agency of Eastern Finland has also recommended that, if the Parliament implements a reduction in the maximum duration of school travel periods to comply with EU recommendations, Article 32 of the Basic Education Act provides: in this case, in accordance with the interests and rights of children. Even according to our constitution, according to Article 6, children must be treated equally as individuals and should be allowed to influence matters concerning themselves accordingly. This provision emphasises the equality of children in relation to both adults and other children and also emphasises the treatment of children as individuals. And also, section 6 of our Basic Education Act says that education should be arranged in such a way that pupils' trips are as short and safe as possible. If and when we have children’s school trips that last for many hours, then this time is out of practice, for the afternoon is already long after school day is over, and many children would no longer be able to go out to the evening when they are tired of sitting in the car and driving along you in school. As a result, children and young people living further away from schools and centers are left out of hobbies. They do not have the positive experiences, joy and success of hobbies, new skills or important friendships. In the long run, the benefits of hobbies in terms of health and the adoption of healthy lifestyles remain unrealised. Thus, the short - term decision becomes at its worst a life - long disadvantage. In the time spent on school trips, the child’s best interests should be assessed and taken into account. And it is precisely the child's interests that are being realised that is the main reason for this bill on reasonably long school trips. Mr President! As with school success, positive school experience is a factor that protects children. Especially in the case of young people, the importance of school years is particularly great — just as we discussed in yesterday's mid-term debate. Good school experience strengthens survival, especially in challenging life situations, and the school trip is part of children's school day, it should be remembered. Mr President! In this debate, I would like to raise one more practical problem in relation to these school trips. Most schools organise a wide range of club activities after lessons. Children can practice new skills in sports clubs and art clubs, or learn to prepare healthy snacks and foods in cook clubs, for example. However, children who are involved in school transportation are often unable to attend these clubs. No matter how pleasant the club is for the child and there are friends there, you have to take a ride to school at the end of class and leave the club alone, otherwise the child will not be able to go home. This is one of the factors contributing to the inequality of children living in sparsely populated areas. The inclusion of club activities and hobbies as part of school day, as we Social Democrats have proposed, would be a good remedy for this child's everyday health-debilitating problem, which is to get a ride home after the club.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u202	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 23 February 2018. So this conversation will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-01-ps-15.u203	Mr President! This is a good and worthy bill, and it has taken very comprehensive account of all the relevant human rights and other aspects, which are of course important here. The initiative also takes into account the security aspects of this issue of expulsions. As an additional factor, I would like to point out that, according to our constitution, a foreigner who is legally resident in a country has the right to choose his place of residence, i.e. in translation: there is no such right for an illegal resident. It is important to bear this in mind in this context, because this bill concerns people who, as we have seen, do not need international protection after all the processes of our country's asylum system and, ultimately, the judicial system. In addition to this, this proposed change would also send an important signal to those who are planning to remain in our country illegally or perhaps later in the future to come to our country to abuse our asylum system and our generous social security. We must send a message that we cannot remain without permission, without justification. The rest of the message would be an entirely impossible attraction in this world of international migration.
