ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 9 May 2018. In the course of the debate, Mr Modig Satu Hass supported four motions for statements, which were rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u2	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u3	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 2/2018 vp, the agreement and the common interpretative instrument contained therein shall be decided at the sole reading and then at the second reading of the draft law. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 15 May 2018. In the debate, Jari Myllykoski, supported by Jani Mäkelä, has proposed that the agreement and the bill be rejected in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u4	I propose that the agreement and the bill be decided together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u5	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 9 May 2018 The debate, supported by Sirpa Paatero Silvia Modig, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u6	Mr President! I voted wrong by mistake. The intention was to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u7	Let's mark this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u8	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 6/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 15 May 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u9	Mr President! I would like to suggest that this section is given the form of objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u10	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u11	Hanna Sarkkinen, supported by Hanna Halmenpää, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u12	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u13	Mr President! We have received another proposal from one of the government's top projects in the debate. This time we are looking at a sector where, if this proposal were to go through as it is, there would be free competition in the whole country rather than in the current district licking system. There are two good arguments to support the proposal. Not only would the proposed amendment increase competition in the sector, but it is also in favour of the fact that a part of the country's traditional district licking system has already been abandoned. This change has also been supported by the vast majority of rescue services in charge of the tendering of purse seiners. Mr President! On the other hand, the proposal would not interfere with the requirements for the competence of licking operations. In the future, the eligibility requirement for a sweeper’s professional qualification will be that the quality of the sweeper’s operations will remain high throughout the country. However, in view of the continuation of the sector, consideration could be given to the extension of the scope of the whole sector's role, as suggested by a number of experts in the sector in their opinion on the draft government proposal. Why not also check the fire and carbon monoxide detectors or report problems in housing security to the rescue department? I would also like to turn to the view that it would make sense in law to maintain the obligation for the chimneys to report fire hazards in the fireplace or in the flue, of course, to the rescue services. This was considered important in a number of opinions because buildings do not necessarily understand the importance of repairing faults. In addition, the liberalisation of the sector also requires that national communications of change be invested in order for property owners to be able to operate within the framework of the new law. Fortunately, there is enough time for this, because the proposed law should not enter into force until the beginning of next year. It is also quite clear that the impact of the change on the price of seduction services and regional availability must be closely monitored. If major problems occur, they should be reacted immediately. Under these conditions, Mr President, I support this proposal and its proper handling in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u14	Mr President! There is indeed a government proposal to amend the Rescue Act so as to remove the obligation for rescue services to organise the sweep services, which in practice means the liberalisation of competition in the sweep services, while, at the same time, the obligation to ensure the proper management of the sweep of the property by the owner of the property will continue to be maintained with regard to the regular leaching of fireplaces and smoke flue. I am not going to repeat everything that Mrs Wallinheim has already described with regard to the proposal, but I would say that the essential situation is reflected in the fact that we have already had competition and experience in South Karelia and Eastern Uusimaa for several years now. Competition has indeed brought diversity to the supply, and I believe that now that, if Parliament so permits, competition will be freed up throughout the country, the new, more diverse service concepts referred to by Wallinheimo will also develop from this point of view. I think it is precisely the area which, perhaps ten years from now, will appear to be the biggest change this proposal has had to make, not so much as whether there is a reduction in the price level in some areas or whether there is a need to take specific action in some areas, so that there is sufficient supply, but that the sweeper, especially in the sparsely populated area, will also provide other services which, of course, can primarily be linked to fireplaces and fire safety, which is why, of course, there is also an opportunity to benefit more in the rescue sense than up to now. But, of course, they can also be linked to other household work, which can then also be used to provide more extensive services. Also, if you look at this from the point of view of entrepreneurs, we currently have some 800 entrepreneurs in our country who are specialising in licking, mainly sole entrepreneurs, and at the moment a significant proportion of them are, as it were, in the position of a torper, with about four hundred district lickers and the majority of the rest are, as it were, as it were in the taxi system. After that, we are going to have to go back to history with regard to the licking, too, and I believe that this will also contribute to the development of this sector. Mr Wallinheimo also mentioned that a number of details have been raised here, including reporting obligations to the rescue services. I very much welcome the fact that Parliament in the committees is also considering the details of how this change will be made substantially so that the industry can move forward and entrepreneurship can be freed up in this area as well as standards to the extent that they are not necessary, but at the same time this change will be made in a controlled manner. Therefore, in this context, we do not propose any changes to the specified drag ranges, but should continue to be arranged for the chimneys and fireplaces once a year in constant residential use and every three years in leisure use. The proposal has actually been submitted to Parliament and is intended to come into force from the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u15	Mr President! The Minister did paint a rather rosy picture of this change, and what he brought forward on the positive side did so on the terms of the majority. But it would be worth considering what this change means for sparsely populated areas: the risk of falling access to services is obvious, and the risk of rising prices is increasing. For example, in my municipality there are 0.15 inhabitants per square kilometre. It is the least populated area in Western Europe. The municipality’s area is closer to 6500 square kilometres, and it is very likely that the percentage of blankets in the sweep will fall, the number of visits will fall, and it is simply the case that when the price rises in these more distant economies it will be left unordered and reduced as to what the law requires. And then the owner of the property, the owner of the buildings, will have an even greater risk, and he may take its own risk of not being able to afford to pay those pick-up charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u16	Mr President! The first thing to say here is that the government is now continuing to take this line of its own, which has been the case until now, i.e. the transfer of public action to the private side. There will be a great deal of risk in this area, and the risks are precisely in sparsely populated areas and in that vast prairie from where I come from, in Ostrobothnia. There are a lot of old detached houses and old and aging women, bottom-up women living alone in their cottage. If no one reminds us that we should be licking it now, there is a very great risk that we will not be licking it when there is no district licking system. And if we are thinking of Finland, where there are heavy frosts, we have to warm up a lot and the houses are old, it is a bad equation for fire safety. Has this, Minister, taken into account the fact that every roach is sure to have that sweeper once a year?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u17	Mr President! The two speeches above were, in a way, like a robbery. But I would like to ask the Minister: when this is outsourced and we have today various companies that are intruding here in the so-called market and say that now your flutter is in this condition and in this condition and you have to renew it, then what happens to such legal fire safety requirements, and then when you do sort of like forced sales, when you open up this more to different operators, then how does it prevent you from becoming a market like this? But most importantly, how can we ensure fire safety if there is no regularity so that the sweeper circuit system is still in operation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u18	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this introduction. I understand that this government's proposal, too, is causing uncertainty and also for and against debate. The Minister pointed out that this system has already been in place in South Karelia, and that is indeed the case. I remember when it was introduced to South Karelia. At the time, there were doubts, but I can say for myself that this system now proposed by the government has been effective and that there has been a shortage of entrepreneurs in South Karelia, which has been operating for several years now. The owner or holder of the building will continue to be obliged to carry out the licking according to the ranges laid down. After all, the nudity intervals are not changing now, and that is a good thing. In my opinion, it is also a good thing that the rescue services continue to monitor the implementation of the property-sewing obligation. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u19	Mr President! That is right, as Mrs Torniainen said goodbye, to open this matter in greater depth. You might want to remember one more thing on top of this: Since the owner or owner of the property is in any case responsible for the security of the property, of course we each have a certain degree of insurance in our own property, and it is worth remembering that if you have not done this licking and happen that house to burn down and there is a flutter fire coming, then no insurance will be valid. Yes, this personal responsibility has to be borne a little bit, and I myself have to pay for the drag charge on two properties, but I am happy to pay for it when I know that the sauna can be heated at the cottage without fear of the cottage burning or the pebble oven at home when I warm up, so it will be nice to know that there will be an oven next time as well. That it's worth seeing a little bit of light in these things. Of course the emergency services and fire services control these things and even carry out fire checks to see if the places are safely under control and in good condition, but run from top to top that all
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u20	Mr President! Indeed, experience shows that deregulation has gone quite well, and in this respect, in this regard, I am quite confident as far as this bill is concerned. But I ask the Minister: when the explanatory statement considers it possible, however, that, in spite of the communication, the level of the drawdown at the end of the district licking will fall from the current level — at the present time, it will be around 70 %, and it is speculating that it could fall to 60 % — how do you assess the significance of this in terms of fire safety,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u21	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u28	Mr President! A brief follow-up to this debate on the pros and cons of licking and whether it will succeed or not: Personally, I have never been able to believe that any good would be achieved by coercion or a massive government guardianship. Of course, some control is needed in traffic, for example. It's obvious. But the fact that we begin to imagine that, for example, it would take that control of society... Even today, there are service providers in my region of Ilomants, even though there is no densely populated area, and I can say that I am 100% sure that the young man who does the job will continue the services when he himself has always called — once a year is in contact, at least — and there will be a survey as a text message that he will be able to do next week, for example. The same is true of other service providers. The barber sends a message from time to time that it's time to get a haircut. I always say from the mirror in the morning that perhaps it is not so urgent. Similarly, many other services are carried out on the basis of the principle of this kind of provision. Entrepreneurs will take care of it. For those societies where there has been an obligation to do something — and that has also been the case — it must have been very bad. But this debate merely shows that we should treat these entrepreneurs with a very high degree of positiveness. I know these sweepers from my own area, and I'm sure they'll continue with the services. And above all, when they are professionals, they have modern tools, they know their jobs and they are extremely responsible and do their work financially. So do not, ladies and gentlemen, now fear that this future world will be the time of the former forced world when the state in some countries controlled almost everything. There's no such thing, and we're gonna wash our teeth tonight without security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u29	Mr President! I will try not to provoke Mr Hoskonen's last words, but I have to react to them. I must say that we certainly, having criticised this system and now this proposal, have not meant that the Finnish entrepreneur would be irresponsible. No one has spoken in such a way that an entrepreneur who is doing the licking is not responsible. That's not the point. But it is a question of fire safety, and when we work in this house, it is a question of us taking care of the safety of this nation as a whole. There are people who do not want to order the service that pays for saving. Therefore, it would be more reasonable to maintain that security, so that every home is kept so - called ‘sweeped and fireproof’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u30	Mr President! Congressman Ala-Nissilä sort of hit the nail when he described the type of sweepers he sees as. We've seen them before. The old man came a few days ago from a licking trip to a council meeting without going to a sauna, and he was crucified as the only black senator in the municipality of Savukoski. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u31	Mr Tavio, Mrs Myllykoski and Mrs Wallinheimo, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u32	Mr President! This topic was the first to remind me of my favorite comic book, Donald Duck, in which one of the old episodes Aku got tired of the arrogant behavior and pricing of the only sweeper in town and Aku became a sweeper himself. Aku, though. Of course, the duck finally screwed up that job and then was exiled from Duck Castle. There in Ducklinna, it seems, was not very specific professional requirements for the work of a sweeper. However, I do not think that this way of ensuring that competition is not continuous and is not free of supply is desirable, but it is, in principle, a good thing that we should be moving towards a model of free supply and free competition. In my opinion, pricing in this sector too can be achieved according to the market, according to demand and supply. So, basically, I welcome this presentation now with joy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u33	Mr President! Mr Mustajärvi took a very good view of what is what we all want together in the previous government and the current government to have people living at home, and we want to provide services so that people can live at home. But what is the case with this, that is, the elderly population to whom we want to provide services at home, then one part of this service also involves taking responsibility for ensuring that the home is safe for fire? Or is it the case that we are, in a way, excluding them from society so that, in the event of a fire accident, the insurance company says that ‘unfortunately, there is no need for adouse to be made so that we are not liable for this damage’? We should now think about the fact that it is really good that competition is healthy. It is very good that we do not have institutions that compete simply by saying that ‘we pay for this’,but if we have to produce services for a person or a community more effectively,we do not have to involve them in society. But now it is a question of fire safety, and the social security reform starts from the very angle that we have an ageing population and at the same time we all want everyone to have the opportunity to live in their homes for as long as possible, as it feels safe and good, and we bring home services, take food, take care of our elderly. How about this, with those people who depend on the wristband and who may not even pay their own bills anymore, but have been placed there on the bank's direct debit or otherwise? Is it the responsibility and responsibility of the family to outsource these matters to someone who will never take care of it when it comes to licking and fire safety? I ask the Minister: have you noticed that we have an ageing elderly population that is increasing? How is it compatible with this bill that we want people to always live more and more parents at home? How it will be ensured that every old man
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u34	Mr President! As the debate has shown, it is clear that the impact of the change on the price and availability of the licking services will certainly have to be monitored more closely in the future. However, it is a question of fire safety and, of course, it must be taken seriously, as many speakers have pointed out. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister: have any possible monitoring instruments been considered here, how can this security aspect be better taken into account in the future, that these particular concerns which are now being expressed in this Chamber should be better taken into account?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u35	The two speeches that have been requested, namely the Minister and Mr Hoskonen, perhaps in the order that has now been agreed in this case, namely the Minister and then Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u36	Mr President! Thank you for the proper debate and for the deepening already at this stage. After all, we have many different types of home services that people of all ages need on a regular basis, most often much more often than a sweep service. However, I have not heard from anyone in this Chamber, at least in my own time, that the services of plumbers or electricians should be monopolised. These have not been public services to date, as has already been partly suggested here, but they have been self-employed until now, but it has been a regional monopoly, currently under the current law. In the same way, for example, other property management services also require qualifications. No pipelines or electricity must come to anyone, and on the other hand we also require a certain level of real estate, for example in the case of electrical solutions, as we all know. In that area too, we broadly believe that competition will produce better results. And as far as these sparsely populated areas are concerned, of course, the market will live in different directions, and that is why, also in connection with what Wallinheimo asked, we have thought about the follow-up work immediately. But it is also possible that in quite many cases the sweeper leaves more closely than at the moment, because he is not necessarily the person who wants to specialise specifically in district-shooting tasks, but can be a person who can support himself by selling several types of services, for example in the field of real estate technology or home-services. It may be that the elderly living on the basis of home services have closer security, which also makes a sweep but many other things and, as it were, knows its economy more closely. Secondly, as has been mentioned, there is a market already liberalised in both Uusimaa and South Karelia and, most recently, in Northern Ostrobothnia. In fact, 76,000 of these exempt properties are located in the North Ostrobothnia region of Oulu and North-East Finland, and there has been no collapsing message that the services were not available. On the contrary, as Mrs Torniainen said, in her region of South Karelia this has been particularly effective: already a quarter of the buildings have been liberalised. This is done in a controlled manner. We've gone to try it. And now that it has been said that the results are good, it is not worth being afraid of, it is worth pushing the gas to the point that the benefits are also available elsewhere. Of course, it has already been agreed that rescue services, insurance companies with a strong interest in this matter, and the real estate sector will act as a catalyst for communication with customers. And I believe that the entrepreneur who currently serves as a district arrow will be under the pressure of the competition to sell the services and, if necessary, it will drop the paper note in the grandma's mailbox and not just sell its services through Facebook. Mr Räsänen, quite properly — thanks for his constructive approach to the whole — mentioned this 70% drag activity, which means that 30% of the law is not being implemented as it has been written at the moment, but we estimate that it is a greater risk both at the moment and in the future that the shortcomings in the licking process will not be invested in order, because they will be the more expensive part of the legislation at the moment when there is something to be repaired in the flue. And in this respect too, I hope — and I believe so — that this competition and certain synergies within the real estate sector will lead to more frequent provision of the path of how to put the property in order after the licking. However, those repairs will ultimately be the only way to ensure its fire safety, and that way I believe that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u37	Mr President! Finally, for my part, when these activities are liberalised, I am sure that these entrepreneurs, who want to do their job, already have the equipment on top of the last one today — the young man who licks my property too — on top of the last one. Everything is a tiptop, and he has acquired all the equipment that modern technology offers. There is no fear that he will not continue or that he will stop working or do worse work. He even gave me some good advice on how to do the job in the future, and all the advice has already been implemented, so the fire safety in the house has certainly improved. When Mr Mustajärvi mentioned that The reform of the post was also a bad thing, so I can tell you from my home that the reform of the post made a huge change. Mr. Mustajärvi was right about that, but his sense of direction was wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u40	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your excellent answer. — — — — I personally see that in the future this self-communication of entrepreneurs will certainly work and will certainly play a key role. In addition, in each municipality, when considering and planning services for older people and considering the overall safety of municipalities, including fire safety, municipalities will certainly take into account in their own communication that every flue that needs to be licked will also then be swept away. As Mr Myllykoski said, competition is good. Competition is good, and it will provide us with better and cheaper services, and I really hope that through this proposal they will be achieved, and that is what I firmly believe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u41	Mr President! Now we have to ask ourselves whether it's a municipality or a province that's going to take care of these things, and now that there's going to be such big turmoil, how much turmoil you want to throw in there. The Minister himself rightly said — a pity that he has already left — that it will certainly be corrected when something is to be done in the flue. Well, it's a good thing we fix it when we find something to fix. Until now, it has been pointed out earlier that something should be done now that there is no real repair. But the minister also mentioned that when you do plumbing, electrical work, real estate work, real estate technology, there are people who know their business and these things will be done and there will always be professionals there when you need them. True, there will certainly be a professional mason when the pipe is laid and laid, but now it is a seduction after what is once again the fire safety in that house.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u42	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u43	Mr President! We will discuss the report of the Finnish Broadcasting Board to Parliament on the company's activities last year. It is a very good thing that Parliament receives a report for the referral debate already during the spring session. It will therefore come to the Committee on Transport and Communications in due time. The reporting year, as described in the Chairman’s report, was the year of events and activities. Without exaggerating, we can say that YLE is our common property, it is an organic part of our people's way of life and also the personal history of each of us. I suppose we can say that if our parents or educational institutions are primary educators for us, then the Finnish Broadcasting Company has been involved in our life as a kind of auxiliary educator. Last year, the legislation relating to the Finnish Broadcasting Company was reformed. A key part of the legislative reform was that the Board of Directors was responsible for adopting the company’s strategy. To date, the Governing Board had adopted strategic guidelines. In the autumn, the Governing Board adopted a new strategy. Public service companies are in a phase of transformation across Europe and more broadly. The media field is changing, the equipment is renewing. Time must be monitored, not just followed, but reacted to the change and taken into account the change in time. It is therefore a deep wisdom to channel resources to new content and online services. We also need to recognize what has passed its time. Working methods and environments also change and renew. Freedom of speech has been a lot to talk about lately. Freedom of expression and responsibility go together. The phenomenon typical of our time is also the so-called fake media: fake news is taking over the industry around the world. In a world like this, we need reliable media. In countries with a well-functioning public service company, the other media field is wide-ranging and freedom of expression works well. Broadcasting continues to have a high level of public confidence. 76 per cent of the population Yle reaches daily, more than 90 per cent weekly. New instruments have also helped to reach the age groups under 45. President! The debate on the role and role of the public service in Finland will obviously expand and the debate will continue. It is a common national interest that we have a high-quality and reliable public service company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u44	Mr President! It is very good that we have returned to parliamentary preparation on the subject of Yle. And it is a good thing that the government no longer tries to make majority-based proposals on issues such as Yle's funding or tasks, thereby undermining Yle's independence. Yle has been transferred back to the state by a parliamentary decision, which is all well and good. As a reliable actor, YLE, who carries out its public service mission, is a valuable part of our society. As media fragmentation and electrification continue, the share of major international players will increase. The Finnish Broadcasting Company, which operates in the public, domestic and domestic languages, secures the basic needs of our information and develops our society in the field of knowledge and art through its own rules. With the spread of false news and the loss of freedom of the press in Europe too, we must ensure our own communication. That is extremely important. Although the increase in the lower income tax threshold will make it easier for almost 400,000 citizens to have an economy, it is good to remember that the upper income tax is not the primary instrument for compensating income differentials in this country, there are far better instruments to do so. At the same time, this reduction in the tax base raised the categories of payments, and when the lower limit was raised, the lowest tax rate was immediately increased. In other words, those who now have to pay taxes pay more than they paid in the past, and that is something we can check a little more about. If this is the case, then, in the past, the $390,000 was exempted from paying the Yle-Tax, it was for people who made less than 11,000 a year, but now for those who have a pension or daily allowance income of less than EUR 14000 a year or a salary income of less than EUR 14750 a year. At the same time, of course, these taxes compensate for the fact that when one end is calculated, the highest group was now raised to EUR 163 per year, which is EUR 20 more than before. This means that in the family of two adults the share of Yle-tax is EUR 326 per year. And this is paid by all people with a wage income of EUR 21270 per person, EUR 21270 per wage or EUR 20520 per pension or per diem income, and it should be remembered that this EUR 163 per year, EUR 326 per two adults, such as couples, is the same whether it is a salary income of that 21270 or 250,000. I mean, everyone has the same thing. It is the maximum tax that can be collected, EUR 163. I'm just asking if this is fair. The same line is maintained on the part of the Community, namely that the entity is not taxable for Yle if the taxable income is less than EUR 50000 per year. The maximum corporate tax is EUR 3000 and is paid if the taxable income is EUR 867142 or more. And note: VAT is deductible in the case of entities. Although the annual income to be taxed in the Community would be 20 million, it would not pay VAT in excess of EUR 3000, and it would also be deductible for tax purposes in excess of EUR 3000. In other words, it might be worth looking at how these payments fall and to whom they fall and what actually happened when people were released from the Yle-Tax. In itself, it is a good thing that it was set free, but it must also be seen what its effects are for the future. And the fact that that threshold is still below EUR 15000 per year is a very low limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u45	Mr President! Thank you to the Chairman of the Management Board, Mr Kivelä, for presenting the report of the General Board of Yle. The task of Yle is to be an independent and reliable actor. If there are cracks in this, the public's confidence in Yle will begin to falter. Freedom of expression, high-quality journalism, are vital cornerstones of Yle's activities. Cultivating domestic culture is also a fundamental task that must not be forgotten in the rush of internationalism. Yle has to serve all the taxpayers right from there to Grandpa's. This is something that sometimes gets forgotten in programme policy. Plus, I'm giving you high-quality children's shows. Domestic drama must also be increased in the future; it is very good. And sports programmes and Eurovision — it is important that every citizen is able to see and experience these great events too. And then there's the music part. Although the Board of Directors does not interfere with the content of the programme, such greetings should be given to Yle, the government and also the programme managers: Yle's music should not go as it is now, that there are such music lists with the prescribed few ten songs playing from morning to evening. Yes, taxpayers from all over Finland have earned the fact that music is widely presented, including music from different regions and not just a music list. That is more the task of commercial operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u46	Mr President! I agree with what has already been said here that it is very important that the Yle base is parliamentary, and even during this parliamentary term it has been possible to agree on both the funding of Yle and a little reform of Yle's tasks and the Yle law. In fact, I do not think there are very many other big things in this parliamentary term, apart from foreign and security policy and Yle, which we have been able to agree on. In other words, it is very important that this is what we have been able to do, and it is extremely important from the point of view of the independence of Yle. I think the role of Yle is even more important today than it has been in the past. Since we are now living in a world where there is a lot of fake news and a lot of disinformation, especially through social media, it is really important that we have quality media, and Yle has a key role to play in this. I also see the development that Yle is working more and more with commercial operators in the sense that these commercial operators — I am talking about advertising television or regional newspapers, for example — are also proponents of high-quality journalism. In this way, it is important that the element will also remain in this field of Finnish media, because they, together with Yle, serve the objective of providing as many Finns as possible with high-quality and balanced information. That is what I think is very important. The previous speaker also mentioned domestic drama, for example. It is true that Finland is still a small factor in drama production at the Nordic level, but here too it is good that Yle is also able to cooperate with commercial operators, because they are usually very big projects. If we want Finnish drama to be seen in the world too, they are even too big for Yle alone. So this is the kind of cooperation we have to work with. Similarly, on the sporting side: sports rights are expensive, and it is quite wise that in some cases Yle will focus on certain tasks and, for example, on the commercial side there will be some where there is more business opportunities. Of course, this balance must be sought, so that Yle also retains the acceptability of sporting events that are of great importance to people. All in all, at the moment this situation in Yle looks quite good and balanced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u47	Mr President! I listened with joy to Mr Satos' speech, which was kind of like in the top ranks, that we are now in this situation. I also respect the first speech from Mr Kivelä, who took up his duties in the People's Republic of Finland and is now a blue dream, but in any case his honest and own opinion reflected what he personally represents as a Member of Parliament. It is important that we have Yle and it is important that this Parliament has decided how people are to be taxed. Mr Tolppanen, who has now left here, must say that we have parliamentaryly accepted the division between taxation and general taxation. I cannot criticise it because I have been involved in the decision-making process myself and I think it is fair. Surely there will always be someone who suffers, and someone who benefits, but in any case it is very important that we have Yle. Most importantly, we can be ready in this Parliament, in this Parliament, to meet the challenge of not stealing information from us, from the people. This is the most important importance of Yle in this country. This channel gives us all that opportunity to believe. Each time we can disagree that ‘why do I have to vote in general’, and value Yle. Whether it is for the Finns of Finland, the Left Alliance or the Coalition Party, we can always criticise that this is not balanced. But from here on out, you don't run what's journalism. It's Yle's editor-in-chief, president of the news agency. We don't run it from here. We are simply leading the way for us to make it possible for this country to have one channel which is a democratic channel. We will secure the funding there, and in that sense what Mr Kivel said in his own speech is precisely so, there is nothing to deny. It is really great that we can stand together in a row here, for sure, that Yle is the channel we decide on here. With regard to what is the policy of journalism, I very much hope that we do not want to interfere here. All we do is make money that makes it possible for those children's programs, and then we don't have to deal with whether or not there's an Indian hat and a blanket hat software. We are responsible here for the funding and the possibility that we have independent media, and that is our job in this house. It is up to us to ensure that we have at least one channel that critically dares to feel that I am sometimes annoyed — sometimes even by Mr Kärnä — but, in any case, this house creates the framework, and, as Mr Kivelä said, this issue is now in a reasonably good position.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u48	Mr President! First of all, thank you to our colleagues for a good and united debate. As has often been said here, in this age of fake news, it is extremely important that we have a reliable and independent media such as Yle, which will then be parliamentaryly controlled here. As Mrs Myllykoski said, it is not up to us to intervene in these journalistic lines and content itself, but then to rely on Yle's editorial skills. I would like to say that Yle also plays an extremely important role in Finland in terms of minority languages. For example, the Sámi news and the Sámi children's programmes are extremely important, as are the Karelians, for the very vitality of its culture and for the preservation of its language. We have had quite a lot of discussion in Sámimaa about how Yle Saami works. I would, however, like to make an invitation to the Board of Directors that, during this forthcoming term of office, you should look at the way Yle Sápmi works, what kind of content is being presented there. Unfortunately, as far as this media is concerned, a number of citizens have contacted us that this line is not considered entirely objective, and I think it is important that the Board of Directors should pay attention and ensure that the media coverage of Yle Saame, in what way it presents matters, is also diverse and, above all, objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u49	Mr President! We've heard a lot of overwords about Yle again. However, I would point out that the independence of such a media house Yle does not in itself guarantee the quality of journalism. Independence is not a guarantee of quality. That is a problem, precisely if the policy of journalism is no longer neutral and objective, especially with regard to the company that has been paid with tax money. There is nothing to knock on the beak in itself if a private media house does not operate impartially, but, as far as Yle is concerned, this journalistic line and the debate on it are justifiable, precisely because it is a media house with tax resources. In that journalism there are general trends in the media, that is to say, those trends that conflict with neutrality, and these are currently, among other things, news attitudes towards the President of the United States, Israel-Palestinina conflict, immigration, or, if you look inside Finland, the focus of Helsinki, which is a huge threat to our media neutrality if everything is mirrored in the red-green bubble or the red-green bubble in Helsinki. After all, there are these regional news points well and there are a lot of staff on the ground, so that I would like Yle to be able to play such an impartial media role in the future, insofar as we wish to continue Yle's activities. In my opinion, it is really a place of reflection whether we want to continue with what YLE is today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u50	Mr President! Yes, I think it is very important that we have a public service company, Yle, and it is very important that the situation has been specifically established at the moment that there is a stable financial perspective. All of us remember the situations that were here a few years ago, that is to say, it is important that the working group led by Mr Satose then, with its many stages, managed to secure this economy in a certain way, however, on a solid basis. Yes, I believe that one of the good cornerstones of a kind of civilisation and other is that we have an independent broadcaster, and that is what I would like to hold onto. I am pleased that, at the moment, we have found that the guidelines on Yle have also been drawn up in parliamentary terms. After all, there was quite a big debate here in Parliament a few times when it was about to happen that some lines had been made in a government-led way, and it was great to see that, at the end of the day, there was a common view that YLE is a radio of the Parliament and that it is not a radio of the government parties or the government, and this position specifically safeguards YLE's independence. In general, I would say that the YLE is seen as a very reliable player. I would remember, at least from the past, studies where Yle’s news was trusted quite high, and I personally find it particularly wonderful, for example, that Yle offers this children’s programme production, which is unique and wonderful here. In general, Yle is doing a good and important job and a further safe continuation would be desirable and desirable. All in all, in Yle's operating environment, of course, this regionality is very important and the fact that there are radios in the provinces and whether there is Mediapolis or something else in Tampere. This is very important and I would always see that regionalism and the safeguarding of its operation cannot be overemphasized. But, President-in-Office, I thought it was a little problematic that the previous speech even referred to the fact that for some reason we should start to wonder whether it is worthwhile to continue with Yle or something like that. This is not the kind of speech I am very happy to hear. In my view, it has been very important for us to recognise here, in a parliamentary and collective manner, what the significance of the YLE is. All in all, Mr President, I would like to welcome the fact that this financial solution was reached, but also that, at the same time, the importance of the media as a whole was seen today. The fact that we have high-quality media, independent news offering and have a good operating environment in this enormously challenging environment is a major task, and that is why it has also been important, for example, to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u51	Mr President! In a way, Mr Tavio is obliged to reply that we are probably all disappointed at how we are treated, but I have accepted the laundry that has come to me, and I have been somewhat dissatisfied with it when I would have liked more and even more. The question is that Yle is, however, the channel that can only be steered from this house by having a board of directors appointed from here. It will see to it that we do not get into this country an avalanche of fake media, that we have here, together with Parliament, a media on which we, all parties, believe it is a good thing that there is one media that will ensure that we produce acceptable information for all of us. It's terribly important. At a time when there is no media in the House, we must praise Mr Sato for having made good progress in these matters and for having been able to agree on funding, which is a wonderful thing, thank you to Mr Satonen. Yes, now we really need to see the truth: if we want to live in this democracy, then we want and need a media that allows us not to have a wave of fake media attack in this country. And while it is unfortunate in the view of commercial companies that we are also involved on the Internet, we offer services there, which, of course, irritates commercial media producers, I do think and hope, although my children are now adults, that their children can also get a channel from somewhere that can be relied on to ‘this news has been produced through common tax resources, joint parliamentary decisions,this can be relied on’,that we do not have to apply for and share the status of public information about policy in this country. If even this conversation were put in small pieces, this would get quite a curious news story, and it would not necessarily be false media, but it would look quite different from this whole thing,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u52	Mr President! First of all, once these parliamentary decisions have been reached, all parties should be commended for their good cooperation. In all the parliamentary groups back then, that common agreement was adopted, which was of course extremely important. But just as Mrs Myllykoski here and many others have said about this programme, it is of course true that there will be situations from time to time when an individual party or individual representative or party supporter will not be satisfied with the way in which the matter has been reported in Yle. But the fact that politicians are deciding how journalism is done there and how it is reported is the way to the end. Then we will no longer need the YLE if it is not independent. It is everything a and o, and this also comes from those countries, let us say from Great Britain, where the BBC is highlighted as neutral, even though there is a much stronger confrontation in politics than we have. But that is something in which we are longer than they are, that we have a parliamentary decision on funding and amending the Yle-Law, for example. There, in fact, the influence of the opposition is limited to the debate in this House, but not to deciding, for example, on the level of funding, which is absolutely essential. In other words, this model of ours is that these big lines will be drawn up in parliamentary terms — and hopefully we will be able to reach unanimous solutions in the future — and then the journalistic choices will be made there on a practical level among the professionals who work there. Yle is an attractive employer, that is to say, a very high-quality group of people is also looking for it all the time, and fortunately, at the moment, I understand that the situation is very good there too. In other words, these big principles are valuable, they are being adhered to, and I believe that they will continue to be a strong point of view here. I hope it is a unanimous view, because it also has a very big impact, that we all feel that this is something that we must defend together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u53	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski, first of all, you are wrong: the Governing Board does not criticise the content of Yle's journalism. I secured it just here from the chairman of the board sitting next to me. I think that's what he said in that speech. It is not the right forum for criticising this, it is the right forum. Congressman Satonen as well: Where do you think Yle should be criticised if it is not allowed to be criticised here?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u56	Mr President! Above all, thank you to Mrs Myllykoski and Mr Satonen for their excellent contributions. As has been said, we certainly have a lot of politicians and a lot of people who are never entirely satisfied with the type of content it Yle produces, but of course it may help to prove its independence if we are all a little dissatisfied at times. To this speech by Mr Tavio, it is of course the case that in the various news reports people who produce these content have their own world views and, if we are to be honest, there is no absolutely objective media coverage. However, the role of Yle is extremely important and, above all, it plays an important role in resisting these often mentioned fake media, fake news. In this respect, I also challenge the whole Chamber and all the representatives to always develop our own media literacy, and especially in that social media, we do not quickly share attractive news unless we are always sure that they are genuine. A little more must be surprised at Tavio's speech on the Council of Public Word in the sense that I personally regard it as an excellent monitoring mechanism and I consider the Journalist's instructions to be good. It is good that we have such a body which itself evaluates and looks at itself. And by the way, I hope that the Finnish Basic News will also commit to the Journalist’s instructions. You, too, sometimes produce good content in the newspaper, but unfortunately I am not going to share such news if this media that produces it is not a member of the Council of the Public Word and is not committed to the instructions of the Journalist.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u57	President! The composition of the Board of Governors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company is very brilliantly constructed when there is this firewall between editorial policies, programme policy, and then the Board of Directors, so that the Board does not interfere in those matters. If that were the case, it would be an endless swamp. Each of us can look at Yle's Living Archives when, at the beginning of the 1970s, both radio and TV are operated by their own programme councils that dealt with the programmes. From today’s point of view, such a body of politicians seems quite tragic, as if it were some sort of journalistic chief judge. It is clear that not everyone can be satisfied all the time, just as Mr Kärnä has rightly said. This is not just about political programmes. Yes, a particular sport may feel that it is too little on the YLE or too little on the news and so on. And it has come to be said that sports programs were also better when Lasse Virén ran and Eero Mäntyranta dwindled that even there the level had become worse. Well, let's not play games. But now that I have been in this task for three years, political feedback comes from the side to the side: sometimes it is said that it is too much to be tilted around here, and sometimes too much to be tilted around there. I think we'll find the truth in between.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u58	Mr President! Perhaps a few more words on what Mr Tavio has said. Firstly, I think you are absolutely right that this is the place where we can, and should, discuss Yle and, for example, the level of funding. After all, Parliament is the one who decides. Independence is, of course, an important issue in terms of information, but of course Yle has a much more role than that. We have already talked about its role as a producer of cultural programmes as well as a producer of sports programmes. One important thing is that it maintains, for example, programmes for linguistic minorities in a way that commercials would certainly not be able to offer, and so on. So the role of Yle is, of course, much wider than just this one. But on that point I would like to comment again that, when you say first of all in the same speech that it is important to defend Finnish culture, and then you say secondly that Yle's funding must be significantly reduced — I understood — how can this equation be implemented? Because if we think of domestic drama production, any domestic music or anything else, then one thing I understood when I was in charge of this task force is that we have a huge number of people who are not even in Yle's service but who, for example, produce freelancer or live in part from the result Yle receives, even if the main income is from elsewhere. In other words, if Yle’s funding is to be significantly reduced — then, of course, it is to what extent it is to be reduced — it is absolutely certain that it will significantly reduce domestic production in particular, because Yle is such a large buyer of its production in one way or another. In that sense, it is precisely so that the Finnish language and Finnish culture remain strongly in this global world that Yle has a very central role to play, and I would be quite careful to go there to do a major surgery. And I admit quite frankly that for myself this matter did not open up until I had to face that problem and see what would have been the effect, for example, of cutting 100 million or 200 million — just as there were such light throws — that what it would actually have done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u59	Mr President! I have to start by saying that we will start Question Time on Thursday at 4 p.m. and the television will stop at 4 p.m. Then the news of the linguistic minority begins, and then Parliament's Question Time, which is intended for opposition parties so that they can ask questions from the government, is interrupted with respect and respect for a group of language minorities. When we have a debate about this, it will be rather complicated when we have this discussion with Yle. I'm sure we'll need a representative from Sato as a mediator for this. I hope that Mr Satosen will then take this debate on board, so that this matter can be reasonably dealt with. But, Mr Tavio, I did not quite understand how you made a conflict about what has been discussed here. There is no conflict between funding and programming. We all understand here that there are different views and that they must be expressed. As for Mr Kivelä, as chairman of the Management Board: Although it is claimed — or you whispered to Mr Tavio’s ear — that there is no programme policy on the board, it is not programme policy, but the elected MPs sit on the board and take the views of the various parties to Yle. That's the place. This debate does not lead to political or economic activity. We make financial decisions here, but not journalistic decisions. In my opinion, it is the Governing Board where the representatives of the parties can tell the company that it is now showing that the journalistic line is crooked. There it must be shown that we are dissatisfied as representatives of a party, that the line is now crooked. It's the place where it can be done. There's no point in shouting from the outside.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u60	Mr Myllykoski, thank you for your comments and your reply. I am sure that there will be a debate there and hopefully a debate there. As such, I find this quite amusing, however, that the report of Yle's Governing Board and Yle's case are being discussed at the plenary session. With 200 of us here who can now speak of Yle, I would believe that Yle would have someone who would follow this debate too — if not, at least read the Minutes, according to all reason. I suppose a budget of 500 million will give you one, so this is probably a good time in itself to criticise too. Representative Satonen spoke quite beautifully about the fact that Finnishism is being maintained through Yle. In fact, I very much agree with that. It should be a priority, but then it is precisely the problem, for example, that well, which is why Yle buys so much foreign production. Does Yle really need Game of Thrones, or what are all these shows being rolled around? Does a public media house like this have to be showing these? [Arto Satose’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u63	Mr President! Yle is an important player. No one disputes that. What else would present and bring programmes to sign language, the Saami and so on? But I fully agree with Mr Tavio on the same wavelength. [Department : On the same channel! ] The domestic share of Finnish culture in Yle's software must be kept constantly on display, and it should be reminded that it will not be forgotten. And as I said earlier here, we need Yle and it is a very important player. The Finns also believe that, but if we criticise things that we consider to be negative and wrong, they must also be presented here in the Chamber and publicly, and hopefully Yle will take them into account. I don't see anything vague about that. This is a good forum to raise issues, and that is what we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u64	Mr President! I listened to this discussion in that study, and when the conversation went into these fake news, I decided to come along and participate in this. For me, Finnish Broadcasting is particularly interesting in the international context. I am currently preparing a report in the Council of Europe on how to make better use of the broadcaster throughout Europe in the fight against fake news and hate speech. I believe that broadcasters, both in Europe and in Finland, play a crucial role in this. I am very pleased and grateful that Yle has set up such an Academy of Journalism, which is aimed specifically at combating fake news by the main means of improving journalistic quality and investing in journalistic quality, because in my opinion, in the fight against these so-called pseudo-news, it is precisely that quality and yet again quality that is the most important thing. Another key issue is, of course, this media self-regulation mechanism. This was just referred to in the Finnish News. If, according to the previous speaker, the Finnish News is such a high-quality media, I wonder why it is not ready for this media self-regulation mechanism, i.e. to participate in the Public Word Council. Yle is the key factor, and this is good. Indeed, I believe that Yle would have a good chance of bringing these own facts-checking practices together with other practices in combating fake news and producing high-quality journalism to the public broadcasters in European countries where there are many problems with the quality of journalism and where there are many shortcomings. For example, I am raising Poland and Hungary: at the moment, there is a significant restriction on the state of operation and freedom of action of the broadcasters in these countries by their own government. Of course, Finland is in an exemplary position here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u65	Mr President! I myself would not go out here to defend or drum up this joint court of the Council of Public Word. But from that speech by Mrs Myllykoski, which said that the Governing Board would be the place where the party line should be highlighted that Yle's activities have not been appropriate: At least, I recall that the last time such a line was brought up there, there was quite a commotion that there should be no criticism of the operation of the YLE. In other words, the representatives of the Finns of Peru, who pointed out that certain news articles had been perceived as biased, then someone had leaked into the media that such a speech had been held in a closed meeting, and then the media went on to shout that the media should not be criticized. So what is the place where the YLE can be discussed? The problem with Yle is that a media house funded by taxpayers should not seek to influence opinion as it is today. However, there is constant, flagrant and clear influence of opinion, particularly in the red-green direction and in the direction of praising the EU. This is a pity, because open and blatant political action undermines credibility As an operator as it should be, i.e. as a producer of special groups and children's programmes and as a producer of similar commercially non-supported software. It is difficult to justify, for example, to a citizen who was deposed from yesterday's A-Studio to the Yle-Tax. How do you explain how you tell him that he should pay for this kind of software?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u66	Mr President! This is where Mr Satonen said, a little earlier, and I think Mrs Elomaa has just mentioned it, and I think that Mr Mäkelä has also said that I think that this plenary session is a good place to discuss the programme policy of the Finnish Broadcasting Company and whether or not the Finnish Broadcasting Company is completely independent. Of course, we all have our own views on whether or not, for example, the YLE is treating or reporting in a completely independent and impartial manner on political issues, but I am not going to be the one to prolong the debate in this regard. However, I would just like to say that it is a good thing that this debate has taken place here. On the other hand, I am somewhat surprised at Mrs Myllykoski's statement that she considers the closed meetings of the Management Board to be a better or the right place to discuss programme policy. However, I do not think this is the case, but it is better that these issues are raised publicly, and then, of course, with this public debate, the YLE can also consider whether the programme policy is in the right form. The debate has also highlighted the importance of domestic programme production. I share this view myself, it is very important. Here in Finland, we should strive to ensure that the promotion of Finnish culture, which is part of the tasks of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, takes on an even more important role than before, and in that, too, the promotion of Finnish, domestic, programme production plays a very important role.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u67	Mr President! I was not going to take part in this debate, but when there was a debate about whether Ylen should produce content as if it were a little more narrower, and only for certain specific groups and at the same time, for example, defending Finnish culture, people will learn to look at an instrument or use an instrument. It is therefore important that Yle is a relatively large-scale service house, because it is also viewed by those who might not necessarily look at some of the elements that this limited programme policy would produce. And if we are thinking of young people, for example, it is important in the sense that there is more entertainment and a wider service there than just some meaningful and rigorous programmes, such as those on minorities, because then the instrument is easily alienated and not viewed at all, and this makes our thinking even more differentiated. It is therefore important that Yle has a programme aimed at small audiences, which is certainly one of its core tasks, but also programmes aimed at a slightly wider audience or wider audiences, which then become familiar with the YLE client, if you can say so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u68	Mr President! Finally, these problems of media neutrality are not just Yle's problems, nor am I here to present them. There is quite a lot of problem in Finland, for example, because so many media houses use news coverage exclusively from the STT in international news, which comes quickly, and STT may often use CNN news in the background, for example. It goes to the news activities of different cultures, where there is once again, in their own cultures, the partiality of their activities and quite clearly the distributions, that what a news centre is the voice of an ideology. Then here in Finland, in the small North, it is as if they are taken from there, and perhaps they are not fully understood that there are clear ideological differences. This is also related to the production of the youth programmes mentioned just now: If and now it has been seen that the situation is such that in some small Marxist minority there is a terrible rumour that someone has been an Indian in some children's program, it is precisely the involvement of such a small minority and submission to such a culture of injury that is not at least an indication of independence. Similarly, if some series of young people are produced, even if some factual series or series of social events are produced for young people and agendas, then they should also look at whether there is now a clear ideological emphasis on the content of this programme and what is the ideological emphasis on whether it is, however, slightly tilted to that red-green image of Helsinki or whether something perhaps more objective and rational. In that sense, the Finns of Finland send these critical greetings here to Yle but also to other media houses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u69	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u70	Mr President! School bullying is too common a problem, far too common. We decision makers can't just stand by and watch bullying. It happens everywhere from day-care centres to colleges. What you learn when you're young, I guess when you're old. This also applies to bullying: if bullying in schools and kindergartens is not tackled, bullying continues. By the time of adulthood, one should learn to grab the head to the point that no one is bullied anywhere or anything. The problem is still rampant, so there is a need for concrete new ways of tackling it. School bullying is an enormously serious problem and its consequences are halting. Bullying may affect the victim throughout life and often lead to serious social and health problems and increase the risk of exclusion if it is not addressed effectively and in good time. On a personal level, bullying causes enormous human suffering and results in a significant price tag for society. Here are some powerful reasons why action and results should be made. My bill on a school peace ombudsman aims to eradicate bullying in school. In my initiative, I propose that every municipality should appoint a school peace ombudsman. The role of the School Peace Ombudsman would be to advise schools on matters related to school peace or bullying and to solve bullying cases as an external expert. In addition, the school peace ombudsman would monitor the implementation of school peace and report annually to the municipal Education Board and the Board of Governors on the state and development of school peace and would highlight possible development proposals. A school peace ombudsman may be either a full-time or a second-time employee or in combination with another municipal post. This is a point that I have often wondered about from the point of view of competence. I came to the conclusion that too strict qualifications would cause a headache, especially in small municipalities. In addition, it is challenging to define a suitable educational background for a school peace ombudsman. A suitable university degree can provide sufficient practical qualifications, but so can years of experience in the work of young people. I believe that the will of the municipalities to hire the best forces to do important work to eradicate bullying in schools motivates them to invest in recruitment and to select qualified people. Mr President! Principals and teachers have a lot of work to do in carrying out their main task, and it often takes a lot of time and resources to tackle bullying. In particular, they need support to deal with the most difficult cases. The Nice School program and other anti-bullying programs are fine, but they do not necessarily provide the concrete help in solving problems. The school peace ombudsman brings this relief as an outside expert. In addition, the school peace ombudsman would systematically monitor the implementation and bullying of school peace and provide timely information to municipal decision-makers in support of decision-making. I believe that many teachers would be pleased if they could get more help with the problem of bullying. I read Yle's article this week, for which a comprehensive survey of the situation in Finnish schools had been carried out. Among other things, the alarming state of well-being at work among teachers and oversized groups in many municipalities emerged. At least the challenging situation in schools does not make it easier to tackle bullying. I very much hope that there will be concrete support for tackling bullying in school, not just for compassion. Mr President! The reason why I started to draw up this bill was as follows: I have been in the Committee on Education for about seven years now, and this school bullying has come up from time to time from the deep ranks of the people. Last January I visited a couple of families whose children have been bullied for a long time at school. Next, I spoke to the representative of Action Kankaanniemi, who has either taken or taken such a similar initiative in Jyväskylä, and when I talked to him, I thought that this should be completely Finnish-wide. And so I put my phone number on Facebook before Easter and hoped for any contact if we want to discuss this matter. Facebook, so to speak, exploded — means that there were hundreds of contacts and they are still coming today. So since Easter, they have come well over a month and a half, a month and a half. The cases where bullying takes place and has taken place have been very violent in many respects: physically, mentally, very different types. Many cases of bullying have continued for years. Of course, many schools have done well and the bullying can be stopped, but unfortunately there are also those schools where there has not been a very serious approach to this issue, or it has been ignored and partly even put under the carpet and expected that it will be resolved in due course. And since there have been so many of these cases, I thought that one very important measure in this matter, when we need different practices to eradicate bullying, would be such a bill for a school peace ombudsman. There has also been such feedback that, of course, the bully also needs help and the bully’s home often has problems, which is why the bully is harassing. But this issue is so important and indirectly concerns all Finns, so I hope that this bill will also be taken seriously and get on with it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u71	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Elomaa, for this very good bill, which I, like other representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, have signed myself. As Mr Elomaa said earlier, bullying is indeed a serious social problem, which can often lead to exclusion, among other things. Unfortunately, bullying has also taken new forms, including through the continued expansion of the use of social media, and it seems that the prevention of bullying and the resolution of bullying cases has even become even more difficult when parents or teachers do not always have the opportunity or concrete means to tackle them. Mr President! As Mrs Elomaa pointed out earlier, sometimes schools also fear the reaction of parents in these cases of bullying and even try to shush clear cases of bullying under the carpet. Of course, that is not right. That is why concrete measures and means are now needed, and this external expert, presented by Mrs Elomaa, could make a significant contribution to a fair solution to such somewhat more difficult bullying situations. On many occasions and on many occasions, the Finns of Peru have called for strict intervention in cases of bullying and also more concrete ways for teachers, among others. Of course, parents also have a great responsibility to raise their children, and that too came up in this good speech by Mrs Elomaa. He pointed out that bullies, too, often may have a background that makes their cause easier for society, but of course, first and foremost, we must ensure that these cases of bullying do not even occur. Mr President! Finally, I hope that Mrs Elomaa's legislative initiative will have a proper and successful committee reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u72	Mr President! We have a bill that really affects a very large number of people and can be said, as the initiative says, that bullying at school is a serious problem. It is a serious problem in the Community, but it is of course particularly serious for a person who is being bullied, because bullying really has long-term consequences. This initiative states that ‘the prevention of bullying in schools does not have the potential to provide effective means’. It is good, then, to separate prevention, which is aimed at addressing the fact that bullying does not exist or is identified, or, on the other hand, at the fact that, if bullying occurs, every bullying is addressed. You have to have zero tolerance at school for bullying. But in this context it is good to note that there is a very different culture of action in schools as to how problems are solved in general, how problems are recognised. The Nice School program was mentioned there, and I myself am a very strong Kiva School supporter, but I am sorry that now schools have registered exclusively as Nice Schools but are not implementing the real Kiva School program — not exactly the preventive work and program that is part of the Nice School model. There are many levels of action: First of all, the Kiva School programme provides school staff with information about bullying and interference, and this Kiva School model aims to engage the entire school staff in this anti-bullying work. So it includes the entire school staff, not just the teachers. In addition to this, there is this preventive programme for students, which covers the matter in the form of lessons or theme days, i.e. discussing, practicing other respectful behaviour, acting in a group and identifying bullying, and doing various exercises and group work. Then there's this second section, solving these bullying cases. A team of teacher members and possibly a curator will be formed in the school, so one of the adults in the school’s Kiva team is the school peace ombudsman proposed in the initiative. So, in a certain way, every school has a school peace agent, he is now just the engine teacher or locomotive worker of the Kiva team who takes every bullying case into consideration. And here in the Nice School model is that every case handled is carefully documented and followed up so that the bullying would not continue. But if this continues, then it must be transferred to the school’s student care work. And I would also like to point out that in serious cases of bullying, there should be no doubt that the police too can be of use. I will take another point about this school culture: if the school uses peer mediation in addition to this Nice activity — i.e. peer mediation solves the problems that do not meet the bullying criteria, but are these everyday problems that happen at school — students learn to deal with problems and then help each other solve potential bullying precursors. It is also good to note that a lot of things are transferred to that school that take place during the student’s free time. The representative already mentioned Internet and online bullying, and all this about leisure time between children, of course, moves to that school. I see that there is also a need for schoolchildren to address the harassment that occurs in leisure time, which really affects the school work there. Bullying and preventing bullying is a matter for the entire school community. It is a matter for students, staff and parents. This initiative is in itself a good one, but I certainly do not support the appointment of a new official. I see that this is a matter that needs to be dealt with within the Community, not by an official from outside. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u73	Mr President! It was a pleasure to hear Mrs Parviainen speak. It was absolutely excellent. I see that this representative, Mr Elomaa, could rather support and coordinate that good development. This does not necessarily require a new person to be hired to do so, but could be carried out by an existing official. Fortunately, this subject itself is very topical and controversial, as demonstrated by the feedback received by Mrs Elomaa. In fact, the feedback showed well how long it bothers a person to be bullied at school. It is known that children and young people are very sensitive psychologically, and such a thing can make it difficult for them to grow up; even minor bullying, let alone greater bullying or constant bullying, can almost ruin a young person’s life. It is therefore important that zero tolerance is taken and that these new approaches be considered. True Finns require good manners from Finnish schoolchildren, and we want Finnish schools to have peace in school at recesses and classes. So we want teachers to be listened to, so the students must not disturb or tempt the teachers, but we need discipline enough for young people to obey the teachers. This side is important, too. I wonder whether, after the reform of the province, when this bill presents this school peace ombudsman as a municipal ombudsman, it could also be considered whether it could play a role in further preparation in the province. But I am definitely in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u74	Mr President! Everyone has the right to peace in school, and bullying must be zero tolerance throughout society. Everyone needs friends, communities that include, as well as an experience of living in a safe environment. Politics cannot eliminate loneliness or bring happiness, but it can create the conditions for a good life, and this is what it is to prevent bullying. As we know, despite efforts, bullying remains a serious problem in the lives of far too many children and young people. The challenge is that new forms of bullying cross the boundaries of educational institutions. Bullying is increasingly taking place in social media. Preventing bullying and tackling bullying constantly require new ways for us adults. Schools must be turned into exemplary free communities of bullying, because that peace in school is the inalienable right of every student and also a teacher. Responsibility for school peace and safe learning lies with the entire school community and the surrounding society, also highlighting the central role of guardians as educators. However, addressing bullying is primarily the responsibility of the entire staff of schools, kindergartens and educational institutions, and it is also important to provide staff with sufficient tools to deal with bullying. A culture of inadequacy should not be allowed in communities whose task is to raise our children and young people towards responsible adulthood. At the same time, well-functioning contacts with parents of children and young people, as well as the rules of action known to the community as a whole, will prevent bullying that already exists. That is also why rules of order are important in schools. It is indeed possible to influence bullying, but it requires systematic and systematic work, and I believe that the proposal by Mrs Elomaa for a school peace ombudsman could be a good help in moving forward. Now we have a new law on early childhood education in the House, and I am really glad that this is the first time that we have written about bullying in early childhood education. The upper secondary schools, which we are also dealing with, have a very loose entry in relation to bullying, and the High School League, for example, has hoped that it would become a better entry. High school students also need protection from bullying in upper secondary schools. The key role is, of course, active student and student care through our entire education system, as it prevents nausea, and also this kind of communal study care work that targets the entire school community, prevents bullying and problems and promotes that early intervention. It is very important that we have student and student care that works well and that we have enough resources to deal with this bullying as well, so that children and young people can get there for advice from experts and then provide support for both bullies and bullies in these bullying situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u75	Madam President! School bullying is a serious problem and, of course, it has existed at all times. It's not just the phenomenon of our time. There have always been such cases in schools where a student has been bullied by bigger ones or something like that, either by one or more persons. But you can say that today we have these instruments of bullying, this social media and other means of communication, and it has made this issue a rather serious phenomenon and, at worst, has led to terrible consequences. Just as Mrs Parviainen said in her own speech, the worst cases, the worst cases, must of course be dealt with in such a way that they go to the police. Yes, they are such serious things that they need to be addressed with a hard hand. But before it's gone that far... I have just read online about this Nice School project, which has been developed at the University of Turku, a method of working in which people are made to cooperate and to pay attention to this bullying situation in schools in general. In my opinion, the only effective way to tackle this is for teachers, pupils and parents to be involved in this work and make everyone aware of the fact that no one is being bullied at this school and that the guy is always being helped. I do not believe that any official will be able to bring a solution to this, but let the money be spent if the municipality can afford to spend more on education, even if, for example, it is for early education or then for the reduction of group sizes in school classes. Then let them use them there and develop these forms of cooperation between pupils, pupils' parents and teachers, so that they are joint meetings and are aware of the gravity of the problem. Then, the most serious cases in Finland, unfortunately some of which come to the public from time to time, are clearly police matters, and they must be dealt with hard. If a child’s life is difficult from a young age, you can imagine what it is for an adult person when he lives under great pressure. They must be addressed immediately, and it is precisely in those classes, between pupils and teachers and parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u76	Mr President! Everyone should have the right to a safe study or work environment. Peace in school is breaking down, and solutions need to be found. Recently it has been reported that in some municipalities the group sizes of basic education are alarmingly large. This also has a significant impact on school peace. The larger group is more likely to accommodate more bullies, while at the same time teachers are more burdened with teaching work and there is limited time for thorough investigation of bullying cases. For a long time, we Finns have been concerned about teaching groups that have become too big. It is not difficult to come up with the criteria to keep group sizes reasonable: peace in school, quality of teaching and the ability of teachers — here are a few. I believe that the government should play an active role in order to reduce the number of teaching groups in the municipalities where problems arise. This would also create better opportunities to tackle bullying in schools. The problem is serious and huge. According to the 2017 school health survey, for example, one in four eighth and ninth graders are victims of bullying. The types of bullying that I received messages from on Facebook, phone calls and emails include: there is a lot of cyber bullying, hiding things, taking a bullied cell phone and ordering stuff with it, leaving alone, removing friends from the circle, spreading false gossip, assaulting, assaulting and destroying property. And when asked what has happened since you reported bullying, about 30 percent reported that bullying has continued or worsened. This is an alarming figure and shows how new ways to tackle bullying are needed. Mr Hoskonen pointed out that the matter should be resolved among parents, schools and teachers. This bill is now being taken on account of the fact that this is not working properly at the moment. We need new ways. The government must now take action properly and at the heart of this matter. It is not just a task force with reports that will help those who are tempted, but that we need strong concrete reforms to eradicate bullying. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Mr Savio, Mr Tavio, Mr Parviainen, Mr Eloranta and Mr Hoskonen for their contributions. It is very important and wonderful that you have been here in the Chamber to talk about it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u77	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u78	Madam President! The current Firearms Act obliges the acquisition of the right of access to each firearm by means of an arms permit procedure. The right of acquisition must be applied for again and again, even if the person acquiring the weapon already owns the same type of weapon. Article 42 of the Act states that ‘the right to hold an effective airarm is subject to the right to acquire an armaments component for the production or conversion of a private purpose. The weapons licence shall be issued and cancelled by the police department.’ Madam President! From a bureaucratic point of view, it would be simplest if there were a so-called arms passport system in Finland. A gun passport could be used to acquire and possess a certain number of specific types of firearms. However, the police government and the Ministry of the Interior did not see the possibility of implementing such a system when the matter was last discussed in the Administrative Committee, and it is extremely regrettable that the reform of the Firearms Act did in some way remain half-way. However, in the context of the reform it was felt necessary to dismantle unnecessary red tape, and in so doing it was also done by giving up, among other things, aptitude testing, by moving on to the presentation of the weapon acquired and by creating an entirely electronic procedure for the purchase of a firearm. However, the red tape in the procurement procedure could be further reduced simply by giving up the obligation to apply for a firearm already dedicated to a new type of firearm when the new arms licence is exchanged. Such a procedure could be applied to legalised firearms sales. Thus, even in the future, when acquiring a different type or first new type of weapon, you would have to apply for a gun permit with the right to acquire it from the police department. This would ensure that every person with a legal weapon has gone through the licensing process and that the granting of a licence has been proven by the authorities to be safe for man and society. Madam President! In this initiative, I propose with 24 other signatories that Article 42a of the Firearms Act be amended to allow the acquisition of a similar weapon by a valid arms licence from any licensed arms trader, provided that a licensed weapon is handed over to the arms trader in the course of trade. The arms trader should then inform the police of the surrender and the new gun buyer should present the weapon he subsequently acquired within 30 days to the police. A new licence for a new weapon would then be granted to the applicant without cost. I hope that the Administrative Committee will link this initiative with the issue of the Firearms Act when that motion comes to Parliament in the autumn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u79	Madam President! Mr Kärnä has made an excellent legislative initiative. Indeed, such a dismantling of unnecessary bureaucracy is one of the best initiatives and goals of the Juha Sipilä Government. It is quite clear that when a hunter gives up an old shotgun, for example, he has a permit for that old weapon and has been found to know how to use it and to be a responsible user. In other words, there could really be red tape and unnecessary administration in this regard. When buying a gun from a legal store, the person in question would then be able to hand over an old gun and buy a new permit, as if the permit continued. Of course, the authority will write it a new permit to get the relevant documents in order and the registers up to date. This is an example of the fact that, in society, especially today, when we have everything so digitally gone, the care of such formal matters should certainly be made as fast as possible. Then, of course, a person who does not have a gun before or who does not own any weapons at the time of application, but who is new to acquire, for example, a hunting card, would go through the same process that the gun-giver has to go through today. Here, too, it would be good if this red tape were to proceed, and I warmly support Mrs Kärnä's good initiative, and I hope that, according to her proposal, this will be linked to the new legislative procedure she has mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u80	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Hoskonen, for your good comments. I would like to say here that, with this initiative, there would be no way of changing the current security of arms. It is extremely important that we take care of this in the future too, and, as Mr Hoskonen said and had understood the spirit of my initiative well, this is above all about dismantling unnecessary bureaucracy, and I believe that we can all support such measures in this House across party boundaries. Once again, I would like to thank all 24 other representatives who signed this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u81	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u82	Mr President! The law on early childhood education is currently being discussed by Parliament and I propose, as a parallel initiative, the extension of shift care to the first and second classes of comprehensive school. The lonely afternoons and mornings of the youngest, i.e. 1st and 2nd grade students, have long been a matter of concern. For years, afternoon club activities have been used to protect children’s lonely afternoons. After school and even before school, a child can participate in their activities without having to spend hours alone at home after school. However, some of the children whose parents work shifts are even forced to spend evenings and nights alone because of their parents’ work, because not all parents have the opportunity to arrange evening and night care for their children in other ways. According to the law, day care should be arranged as far as possible in the form required by parents or other guardians, even if there is no subjective right to day-care. The right to a day-care place is based on the need for day-care outside the normal opening hours of day-care centres due to the work or study of parents or parents. There is shift care between 6 p.m. and 6 p.m. as well as evening care on weekdays until 10 p.m. and weekend care on Saturdays and Sundays until 10 p.m. The shift care is intended for children in need of shift care on a regular basis, and child care periods are based on parental shifts. A child can be treated whenever both parents are at work, and after a night shift, the parents’ sleeping time. Child care needs for other reasons should be organised in another way. Of school-age children, even the youngest, first- and second-class students, have no legal right to shift care. Day care rights expire on 31.7. the year the child starts school. There will then be no entitlement to shift care even if the child has not yet reached the age of seven. Thus, even a six - year - old may have to spend evenings or nights alone without care when the parents require shift work. Well, I guess you can get help here from Child Services, then. There is no statutory social security for the lonely evenings and even nights of shift-working older children. In a particularly vulnerable situation, children working three shifts, for example, in the care sector, especially single parents. If friends or relatives cannot take care of the child at night and at night, he will have to be alone at home. Mr President! Some municipalities offer shift care to young schoolchildren on a discretionary basis, if this is possible after the investments of children of child-care age. At the discretion of these municipalities, day-to-day care is possible for schoolchildren between 5 p.m. and 8 a.m. on weekdays and, if necessary, on weekends. It would be very important for children of this age to have the right to shift care guaranteed by the law when it is not possible to arrange evening and night care for children in any other way. That is why, in this bill, I am also proposing the extension of shift care to students in the first and second classes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u83	Mr President! This and the next legislative initiative both concern early childhood education legislation and I believe that they are extremely welcome. We have changed our working life, and in fact this thinking in Finland — which I do not necessarily support but which is very widespread — must be open seven days a week and 24 hours a day, has led to an increase in the need for shift care. And that applies not only to children under school age but, as Mrs Eloranta described well here, also to those young schoolchildren whom we have secured by having an afternoon club and a morning club — as the President well knows when she has been promoting and presenting this legislation in her time. But if we consider this whole, we currently have about 15,000 children in shift care, and that is 7 percent of all children. And if we look back a few years from this, that number has grown by over 500 people in three years, and I believe that it would have grown even more if all the families who really needed shift care were given it at the moment, but unfortunately this is not the case. In the case of young schoolchildren in particular, few municipalities voluntarily organise it, although our current law actually suggests that if a child has special needs, even if he or she is of school age, day care should be guaranteed — if there is a particular reason and reason and need. But those particular reasons, grounds and needs are often behind such a high threshold that few can get to it, even though in everyday life it is necessary to do so. In fact, it is not just the problem of working single parents, but when both parents work shifts in the family, for example, these problems are evident. Afternoon club activities are good, but that is not enough if the child’s parents work late at night or at night. Sadly, we even have situations where the child is in evening care, but when he should go to night care, he may be raised up and transferred to another day care centre, and such situations should not actually exist, because there is no way in which the child’s best interests will be realized. And, for example, there have been cases in child welfare where children are at risk of being taken into care, even if it could have been taken care of by shift care and by providing evening and night care for children — and especially when we come to small school children, there is no such safety. Wise municipalities have, of course, found and secured the place in these situations, but these situations should not even be the ones that consider taking custody because society is unable to provide the services that the working parents need to provide for the proper care of their children. That is why I am absolutely in favour of this extension.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u84	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Filatov for his commendable extension of the debate. I would also like to point out that, at the moment, if a child under ten is ill, there is an opportunity to be out of work in order to be able to take care of his or her child, and there has also been a debate about the fact that an 11-year-old is quite small to be at home in a 40-degree fever. This could also be considered to be extended, and it seems rather strange that a seven - year - old can be alone at night at ten o’clock, while a sick child can be at home. There are really things like this to consider. But now that the law on early childhood education is here in Parliament, it would be an easy and convenient place to change this point and improve our legislation and our Nordic welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u85	Madam President! I think it is very important that, now that it is possible, we can see how this can be further developed. The speech by Mr Filatov, which was supported here, should be taken into account in order to make progress. Let's just say now we should have the courage to take a step towards the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u86	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u87	Mr President! Indeed, as I said just now, the early childhood education law is currently being discussed by Parliament and we in the Committee on Education are hearings. Indeed, although there are many very good points in this early childhood education law where we have legislation to go forward, unfortunately the government has not wanted to correct the serious mistakes it has made during this parliamentary term in terms of reducing early childhood education. As a parallel law initiative, I am proposing the restoration of the right to child care subject to the law on early childhood education, which has therefore been restricted in this period. According to the Early Education Act, early childhood education must promote the full growth, development, health and well-being of each child in line with their age and development. In addition, early childhood education should also give children equal opportunities for early childhood education and promote gender equality. The limitation of the right to early childhood education is incompatible with the main objectives of early childhood education defined by law. Limiting early childhood education reduces the chances of promoting the child’s overall growth, development, health, well-being and learning conditions. It also reduces the child’s peer relations and opportunities to meet the needs of the child’s individual support. This limitation of subjective day-care rights to 20 hours per week has led to local government-specific solutions currently different. Not all children have equal rights to quality early childhood education regardless of the background, the labour market status of the parents and their place of residence. In the same context, the decision to increase the number of children aged over three in early childhood education has been taken or not carried out in a wide variety of ways across the country. Together, these weakenings in early childhood education have led to a very wide variation in the number of child groups depending on their place of residence. The inequality between children and families has increased depending on the municipality in which they live. Studies show that both day - care workers and parents have been critical of the deterioration. According to employees, their possibilities for individual consideration of children have decreased. Workers have also reported an increase in anxiety, noise, cramping of spaces and incidents in day - care centres. Parents criticise changes that have weakened the equality of children and families and the permanence of peer relations between children. Mr President! The limitation of subjective day care rights is incompatible with the Constitution and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The proposal does not guarantee every child equal rights to early childhood education in accordance with the objectives of the Act on early childhood education, because children are placed in an unequal position according to the labour market status of their parents. In 2011, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child recommended that Finland improve the coverage and quality of early childhood education programmes. So the coverage should be improved, and we have now gone in a different direction. The Committee also recommended that Finland encourage more parents whose children are not in day care to report their children to early childhood education programmes in order to develop their Finnish language and social skills and facilitate their transition to school and prevent failure in school and early school leaving. In Finland, only about 70 per cent of children between the ages of 3 and 5 participate in the pedagogical early education of day-care centres directed by a teacher. This is significantly less than in other Nordic and OECD countries. In its budget, Finland is committed to the EU target of 95% of children over four years of age participating in quality, pedagogical early childhood education services by 2020. The EU and the OECD calculate pedagogical, teacher-led activities in early childhood education services. High-quality early childhood education prevents exclusion. Limiting the right to subjective day care has increased inequalities between children, particularly among disadvantaged children, such as children from unemployed parents and parents from immigrant backgrounds. It would be particularly important for the integration of immigrant children and language learning to participate in early childhood education. The ratio between children and adults should enable high-quality early childhood education. The quality of early childhood education must be uniform regardless of the municipality and place of early childhood education. We Social Democrats want the limitation of subjective day care rights to be withdrawn, and that is what this bill is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u88	Mr President! I do not repeat what Mrs Eloranta has said in her very well-founded speech, but I will take just one further view as to why the subjective right to day care must be restored, and that is because the government has introduced a so-called active model for the unemployed, which, in my opinion, is rather a passive model, because it, as it were, requires the unemployed to be active but allows the state to be passive. We currently have about 45,000 parents who are unemployed and who have children under school age, i.e. children under the age of day-care. Some of them are not in day care at all, some are in this 20-hour zone, and at the same time we demand that parents find at least three days of work in a three-month period or participate five days a week in so-called active activities. But there is nothing to guarantee that these very days, when these so-called active activities or jobs are available, the child will be sent to day care, and then the parents will have to weigh with whether they accept that the child is in God knows what care he is taking, or whether they will be faced with a reduction in unemployment benefit. That is why I find this situation unreasonable. In fact, it would be particularly important for the children to be able to participate fully in early childhood education and day care, especially for those groups who are vulnerable — people who are often unemployed but not all unemployed, but especially those who are particularly vulnerable within the unemployed, such as immigrant parents. It is often the case that when municipalities seek to optimize day-care places from an economic point of view, when jobs vary and there are sometimes unemployment and jobs, it is easy for the children of the temporary workers and of the parents who are on the job to enter into day-care relationships in such a way that the day-care place is not always secured from the very day-care place where the permanent place would be. It cannot be thought that parents who are building a difficult puzzle in their lives with work and unemployment and day care and care responsibilities for children are still going into particular difficulties with this matter of day care. The Ombudsman for Children has also drawn attention to the fact that we have, in a way, two human options: one being that subjective day care is guaranteed for everyone, including the children of unemployed parents, or the active model does not apply to those unemployed who have children under school age. I think that this proposal is a good illustration of the problems we have experienced both because of the active model and because of the dismantling of the subjective right to day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u89	Mr President! At the end of this, apart from thanking Mr Filatov again for his good comment on working life, we should remember that when we invest in children, we also invest in the future. Everyone remembers the figures that the OECD has calculated that early childhood education is the most productive investment in education, i.e. an investment of EUR 1 will bring benefits of up to EUR 7 and the extension of the right to early childhood education would now be an awful good move in this direction. It must also be remembered that children start school from a wide variety of backgrounds and the poverty of families with children is an increasing number of children’s daily lives. We all remember that when the latest Pisa results came out, the Pisa results first highlighted the importance of family background. So when it has been the case in the past that what kind of family a child becomes does not matter how he manages at school, this time for the first time there have been differences in family background. I therefore believe that, by bringing all children into high-quality early childhood education to the greatest extent possible, this will enable us to effectively stop the cycle of underprivilegedness and improve the child's learning opportunities later on on the school road. And at the end of this year, I wanted to remind you that Finland is the weakest in early childhood education in Europe: only 75% of people over the age of four participate in early childhood education, compared with almost 96% in Sweden and up to 100% in France. I hope that action will now be taken here in Finland to ensure that as many children as possible are covered by high-quality early childhood education, and indeed this removal of the restriction of subjective day care would be a very good step in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-16-ps-50.u90	Madam President! I just noticed that the button had not been pressed, but I was glad to be able to see that I did not sit here for nothing. I think that Mrs Eloranta's proposal and the bill are very good and worthy of support. This is already a matter of such a major issue in economic terms, which should be identified. This should not contradict, in party politics, the way in which we want to look after the future of families and children. We should see these problems that come from the fact that we have inequalities. As Mrs Eloranta said in her speech earlier, if we do not allow early childhood education for all, it will undoubtedly lead to the children of poor families being more vulnerable and, in particular, the children of the unemployed being more vulnerable to exclusion from receiving adequate education through subjective day care. Our main motivation for moving this bill forward is that we take care of this teaching for all and, in particular, that it is possible for everyone to do so. The fact that no one is in an unequal position because of their social target group must be promoted, i.e. one must be standing up to suggest that this should be taken forward. This is in the interests of all of us. In 15 years' time, if this comes into force, the fruits will be picked.
