ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u2	Questions will be initiated by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Mr Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u3	Madam President! On Tuesday, we read somewhat confusedly in Helsingin Sanomat that the Ministry of the Interior is, according to the newspaper, giving the police rights to use patient data. The explanatory statement is quite understandable — more security — and it is, of course, always to be welcomed for everyone, but this proposal seems to present more risks than benefits. Trust between the patient and the doctor is important, and for example, for victims of domestic violence, drug users, mental health patients, trust in health care is a prerequisite for seeking treatment. The Medical Association said quite rigorously that the health system is not a criminal control system, that health care is for the best of the patient. Minister Saarikko, it has now been understood in some different way that this real task of health care has been taken into account, and please promise that the Ministry of the Interior will not take the Finnish health care system into this kind of criminal control system?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u4	Mr President! It is good that we are now able to go through this subject in the great Chamber of Parliament, where the press has taken a stand on the matter. First of all, I want to be quite open about the situation. As the Helsingin Sanomat approached me, the journalist had a section at his disposal, and I did not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u7	Mr President! Indeed, we were in this joint interview last week, and the draft articles to which the journalist referred were no more familiar to me than to Minister Saarikko. [Laughter — Paavo Arhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u8	All right, I'm gonna ask those representatives who want to ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u9	Madam President! It is very good that this bill will not come during this term of government. Of course, the question now remains whether it will be cancelled for the Helsingin Sanomat or for what reason. But the main thing is that it will not happen, because we already have an obligation to report to the police on a number of issues: driving rights, firearms, child protection, serious crimes are already the responsibility of doctors and health care to inform the police and others about rights. This is a very good line on how to discuss how to improve this situation in the health sector and in the police. However, there is now a data protection law — or, in other words, it is still under discussion here — which has not yet been fully decided. How does it view this thought that you would like to loosen this discussion?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u10	Mr President! More than it would be good to talk about this process itself. In this debate there are professional groups valued in many ways by Finns, for many perhaps one reason to pay taxes and experience Finland as a good country: police and doctors. Both have very strong professional ethics, a strong belief that they want to act for the right and the good, for security and for well-being. There is a lot of day-to-day cooperation: you need a medical certificate for a driving licence at an older age, for a gun licence, and, as was said, for example, for finding a missing memory sufferer, cooperation is often natural. But the problem with which the Ministry of the Interior contacted us and we said, as it were, that this should be considered between ministries, is, in our view, a problem that has been more or less under the surface and in poor communication between operators for about twenty years. Perhaps it is essential to note that we have legislation from the last government term in 2015, and you, the representative, were involved in it. In fact, it was already stated in the legislation that under the law a health professional may report to the police an assessment of the threat to life or health
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u12	Then the next supplementary question. Since the Green Parliamentary Group also had a question related to the same theme, Mr Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u13	Mr President! This is an important debate and I would expand it a little to look at these principles of the rule of law. Citizens have the right to their own information, they own it. They own their own personal data, their own health information — they are not in principle owned by society. Now that digitalisation and new technical methods have become available, information exchange and data collection will be facilitated. This is how we came to the interface of how much information we could collect about people in the context of the social welfare reform. Now I would have called a little for the government's thinking on this very issue of data protection and respect for citizens' personal data. This has, of course, been met in the field of intelligence law and in matters of this kind. It would be important for the government, however, to clearly state this principle of legal protection from the point of view of the citizens. It cannot be that, when information can be collected and distributed, it is done regardless of the data protection of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u14	Mr President! A very good and timely question. Data protection in Finland is at present and also the world's top leader in the coming years. In other words, if we compare with other continents, Europe will have a leading edge, but if we compare within Europe, Finland will definitely be one of the top countries in terms of data protection and privacy. In fact, it is already being taken care of in this house by our Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has even been very tense about the protection of Finnish privacy and data processing. In other words, it will remain so in these new reforms as well. With regard to data protection: In fact, it is one of the fundamental values of Western open society. No control society, a control society, should go off to do so that the restrictions on the rule of law are not included in it, but in the same breath one must understand and know that, for example, the police must have certain information in society in order to promote security, and in the same way information must move between the authorities in order to prevent serious social incidents and issues from being prevented, for example, by the school world. Coordination and balance
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u15	Madam President! Healthcare reporting rights and obligations to the police are currently quite extensive and effective. They are indeed needed, as Mr Häkkänen has said, but at the same time it must be said that there is no need to extend them, and it was therefore good that Minister Saarikko has now given a clear message to Parliament. You, Minister Mykkänen, however, this week on Tuesday — I listened by the way you gave me an interview — gave me the impression that such a bill could have been coming up even this autumn, and that was precisely what caused this confusion. Indeed, it seems to me that it was a good thing that the matter came to the public debate, when, for example, experts, such as the Medical Association, were able to make clear the concern that people with mental health problems and substance abuse problems might be wary of coming to the doctor and telling the doctor about their issues if this obligation to report was maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u16	Mr President! This is not really a question of confusion. We have already agreed in the ministerial working group on internal security and justice in April that officials will look at this together, as Mr Saarikko said, the question of the balance which has been at different stages for 20 years, as Mr Häkkänen mentioned, which is absolutely inevitable. If we currently have, for example, a patient-to-patient assault, this kind of police does not always get information. Within the country, practices vary. In 2015, a review of the law on health professionals has been carried out, for which it has now been stated today that there has not been enough guidance for municipalities and operators, and that is how we are now trying to improve this. This project has been a request to the officials to look at what is being done and then to draw conclusions. Now, in preparation, some versions came out. This debate went completely on its own, and now the conclusions that have been drawn quickly have been drawn. But I believe that we all agree in this house that, in serious crimes or situations of danger, compromises must be made with where the patient's secret and our shared identity are concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u17	And one more supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u18	Madam President! As the Minister said, there seems to be more gaps in guidance and education, specifically police officers, health professionals, social services. That is the biggest deficiency at the moment, not so much the legislation in my opinion. We had good legislation last season, which will provide information on crimes that have already taken place against children and threaten them. In addition, in Chapter 15 of the Penal Code, we have Article 10, which obliges us to report crimes involving projects, including aggravated assault, rape, robbery and so on. So the legislation is quite right, but when we go to that practical implementation, I know that there are very, very different practices in different places in the Republic of Finland. You could say that people are being intimidated, the authorities: if you report this, you will be in trouble. What will you do to ensure that we have uniform practices throughout the Republic of Finland, and what will you do to ensure that this cooperation between the authorities is even closer? It's good, but it's still not tight enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u19	Mr President! I would like to say from this week's debate that I found it very damaging. Of course, it was important for this issue to be openly discussed, not to belittle it at all, but I hope that it does not leave anyone with the impression that the government of the country wanted things to happen which, for example, undermine people's desire to seek treatment with their mental health problems. [Department :It's important! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u21	Next question, the Finnish Parliament Group, Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u22	Mr President! The Finnish Government intends to sign the UN GCM convention on behalf of Finland at the beginning of December in Morocco. The entry into force of the agreement will have a significant impact on Finland’s ability to manage an independent immigration policy. Although this is not legally binding, it will become weak legislation, because why should any country sign an international agreement if it is not to be complied with? For example, this agreement completely rejects the detention of asylum seekers. At least the United States, Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary are excluded from the agreement, possibly including Australia and Denmark.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u25	Madam President! I am glad that it is the Finns who raise this issue. Let's start with this parliamentary reading: It was sent to Parliament in June in the form of an E letter to a large committee from which it was sent to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Administrative Committee. Mr Mäkelä, who has been dealing with this in the large committee, is sitting behind you. The chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Eerola, is sitting before you, under whose direction this has been discussed in the Administrative Committee and unanimously adopted, does not give rise to any action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u26	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u27	Mr President! Minister Soini said that there is no action, so obviously it will not be signed if it does not. Clearly, the government is not prepared to bring this UN Immigration Agreement to an open debate on the objectives and implications of the agreement. And now I could ask Minister Soin: you have said that the return agreement with Iraq is your priority. In your time, however, returns to Iraq have become more and more tangled. Is it now your priority to retain as many as 10,000 irregular asylum seekers in Finland and to sign the GCM agreement, which will further facilitate migration? It's a record of the turn of the The purpose of the GCM agreement is to make illegal immigration legal, and the aim is to bind the hands of Finland and all other countries of the agreement so that blackmail can no longer be committed. Minister, bring this agreement openly to the House and to the House for decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u28	Madam President! This isn't about the deal, is it? This is an internationally negotiated document. You say it's being signed somewhere. You're not signing it. According to the normal UN procedure, it will be put to the vote in the UN General Assembly by means of a resolution procedure. You should know the facts when you bring these things up and ask about them. So it is a matter of guidelines, a negotiated document within the UN. After all, it is important because we have immigration and refugee status. Of course we want to defend the victims of trafficking. Of course we want decent working conditions for people. Of course we want to ensure that human dignity is realised. We have seen 2015 in Europe, which is what happens when there is an uncontrolled situation, there are no instruments, there are no structures, there are no guidelines. It's a time like that. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u29	Mr President! Indeed, as has been said, this GCM agreement before us, that is to say, an agreement which confuses illegal and legal immigration, actually came to us in the Administrative Committee, where we unanimously decided not to take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u33	Madam President! Let us take this very thoroughly. I am glad that the chairman of the Administrative Committee admitted what you have done there, and you have still taken it to the large committee unanimously. As Chairman of the Administrative Committee, you may invite experts, ministers or experts from the Ministry. But you didn't. And you're saying we're about to sign a contract. The company is a document at UN level, it's not an agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u36	Then Minister Mykkänen completes it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u37	Mr President! The document itself and the process involved are, of course, the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Mr Soini has opened it well here. But when Mr Huhtasaari referred in particular to immigration, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, and the processes involved, I would say that, from our point of view, the fundamental issue with regard to documents and processes of this kind is that we get the commitment of the developing countries, which are relevant to us globally and especially to the countries of the Middle East and Central Asia, to the rule-based and organised immigration which, for example, is already in the title of this paper.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u40	Mr President! There is a huge amount of migration and refugees in the world, there is legal crossings, including informal, illegal border crossings, there are smuggling flows, there are difficulties in returning those who have received negative asylum decisions to certain countries. So the question is: it is a good thing that we have at least some sort of framework in the world of thinking that there is a need for greater international cooperation in these matters, including intergovernmental agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u43	Madam President! Let us take a few points raised here by Mr Vanhanen. For example, in the case of these returns — re-admission, Objective 21 — which must be one of the objectives, this document states: ‘Development of cooperation so that future immigrants can return to their country of origin. States have an obligation to accept their own citizens. Cooperation in the identification of citizens and the issue of travel documents in cases where a person has no legal basis for residence and should return to his or her country of origin.’ This was just one example. There are 23 of these points. And it is because immigration and refugees do not leave the world that we must have policies that can restore but also safeguard human dignity and provide protection for women, children, persecuted people who are in need of life. That is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u45	A question from the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group is asked by Mr Uotila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u46	Madam President! We've been spending the Men's Week ending for Father's Day this week. Men and fathers increasingly want to participate in parenting and child care, both in family life and after divorce. These wishes of fathers can be fulfilled by a good reform of family leave, but also in many other ways in the case of distant, divorced ones. In Sweden, for example, shift housing has been made much more equal than ours. We have a wide range of problems with the organisation of school transport, the allocation of housing allowance, the payment of child supplements and so on. I would like to ask the Minister for Gender Equality: what does the government intend to do to strengthen a more equal parenthood and to secure father-child relations in all circumstances?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u47	Mr President! Thank you for the important question, and good approaching Father's Day for all fathers. As far as this important theme is concerned, paternity is in a variety of life and everyday situations and the child is entitled to both parents even in situations where the parent does not live — or in any case the family does not live — at the same address. One of the difficulties of 24-hour housing is that so far in Finland it has not really been known how much of this is being done in divorced families. There hasn't been any clear statistics. That is why, together with Mr Häkkänen, we, together with several ministries, commissioned a study on how to facilitate day-to-day housing. The representative is on the right track where changes are needed: In Finland, child benefit can only come to another parent. If you live, the child will only be taken into consideration at another address, even if this is practically working and living in two places. We have a good understanding that these changes in Finland are needed because they are in the best interests of the child,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u48	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u49	Mr President! It is precisely these situations where distant, distant parents have poor livelihoods, as the Minister pointed out. There are fathers who live under income support. In case of income support, it is possible to pay a small increase according to the cost of the weeks and the time when the child is with the remote parent. Now that the payment of income support has been transferred to Kela, there have been cases last autumn in which this discretionary contribution has been reduced to compensate for the costs of the child’s shift living, and this is unreasonable in view of the weakest fathers and their children. Is this possible? Should this be absolutely rejected in such a way that such an interpretation of the payment of income support would not exist in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u50	Mr President! Thank you for bringing these cases to our attention through your speech. Payment of income support for the basic part was transferred to Kela with a very broad consensus from the beginning of last year, but the supplementary and more discretionary contributions related to income support are still payable by the municipalities. I did not exactly understand which part of the question was meant by the representative, but in any event, we need clearer cooperation paths between the more discretionary income support contributions to the municipalities and the basic contribution granted by Kela, on the whole, by means of income support. The basic part transferred to Kela as such is a good thing for both distant and other people, because it increases equality and similar practices throughout Finland. As far as the dimension of justice is concerned, the child is entitled to both parents and, in particular, to low income, must not be an obstacle to being a good, present father.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u51	Madam President! First of all, I would also like to wish all fathers a happy Father's Day in advance. An important topic, and when talking about the father’s involvement and well - being, it is also very important to consider that each father and parent has the opportunity to carry out self - looking parenthood. As far as fathers are concerned, it certainly has something to do with our conception of gender or what kind of man he is. The wider the concept of being a man, the more room for every man to carry out his fatherhood in a self-like way. This will certainly also be in our service system when we encounter parents, that we would not oversex things, but realize that the father has the will and the opportunity and the desire to be as older as the mother. One important group we should perhaps talk about is young fathers. Men become fathers at the age of about 30 on average, but when we think about teenage fathers or fathers in their 20s, how many systems do we currently have, the support services are targeted specifically to this group? I would have asked the government for its views on the role of young fathers as part of the family and the realisation of parenthood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u52	Mr President! A country where so few children are born has been obliged to consider how we could support parenthood in all situations of life, so that when a child is hoped for, the situation in which the child is born would always be such that the parent would feel that his or her own life control is sufficient and have tools to support his or her parenthood. In response to a specific question, I also bring up the crown jewel of Finnish social and health policy, a system of health clinics that has done good work in recent years to identify and consider different families, that at reception and during pregnancy the eyes of the health nurse at the maternity clinic would be attached not only to the mother’s eyes but also to the present father, who is also becoming a parent. Especially valuable are those situations where a father, for one reason or another, is alone in the reception with a child, and I have high confidence that Finnish clinic professionals today can support different everyday matters. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u53	Let's stay in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u54	Mr President! “We’ve done but you’ve Fatherhood, parenthood, changes people. Fathers grow up with a child. Today was an opportunity at the Regent House, where the Minister rewarded three people as Father of the Year. On my own behalf and on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to congratulate them and, at the same time, wish a very happy Father's Day to all fathers, parents, fathers and also to those who want to be fathers. On this same occasion — and in fact the Minister also stated — that, given that Father's Day is not yet an official flag day, unlike Mother's Day, this has been mentioned for several years, and I myself am in favour of making Father's Day an official flag day. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mykkänen, whether you would be prepared to warm up to the idea that, in this form too, equality between parents, fathers and mothers would be increased?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u55	Mr President! Yes, apart from this warm-up speech, I am also prepared to warm up to this idea, and Minister Saarikko really did say this earlier in the day. We have also announced that we will make a decision to bring Father and Mother's Day to the same line on this flag issue. After all, we have a somewhat complicated procedure for establishing the various flag dates: some are prescribed by the Government decree, some are established as if through the Helsinki University's calendar committee, and now we are looking for the most appropriate method. But I think it is precisely — the high time in 2018 — that Father’s Day should also be raised in this flag-symbol sense to its value alongside Mother’s Day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u58	Mr President! I'm sure we all agree that the best place for a child to live is in a family made up of a father and a mother. [Left: No!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u59	Mr President! Probably one of the most important individual legislative projects of this parliamentary term in relation to family and child policy is the reform of the regulation on parental responsibility and rights of access. In Finland, family relationships and children’s living conditions and living circles have changed quite dramatically. The legislation, which is 30 years old, is now being reformed during this parliamentary term. The law may guide people to behave somewhat, but if the actual circumstances, such as children’s housing and living environment, are to be seen as a fact that there are more and more divorced families, that there are more and more in turn, and that the child has two different parents who live in different addresses, then the law needs to be updated and amended so that the child’s interests in everyday life are fulfilled, so that the child feels that he or she has equal rights to both parents. This is the way in which the rights of both parents are being updated in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u60	And one more supplementary question, Mr. Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u61	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Uotila's example was entirely true, and it was precisely the policy and unfortunate decisions taken at the turn of the year by the Social Insurance Institution. This is a case in which a distant father who has three underage children is allowed to keep his children at his home on two extended weekends. Without any law changing in connection with this at the turn of the year, Kela made a new policy, and it cuts more than EUR 100 per month from this remote and at the same time her children. Is this the way that the Social Insurance Institution and Ministers and Members of Parliament under whose supervision the Social Insurance Institution should support parenthood?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u62	Mr President! Of course, it is interesting to get to know this individual case. First of all, I would like to say that it is a great thing that this is a father who has wanted to be present in his children's everyday lives despite the divorce and has raised the matter and has brought it to our attention. Unfortunately, Mr Mustajärvi, I am not familiar with that line by Kela in this case. I promise that I will be able to look into it with you and see if there is anything to be done about it, because you are absolutely right about the government line. It's adamant. The child has the right to share time with both parents, and the basic line of social policy in this government is to support parenthood in all situations. Mr President! It has to be said to the previous questioner that I personally find it a little problematic that a definition of what kind of family is a good place for a child to live is laid down in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u65	Next question, Swedish Parliament Group, representative Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u66	Värderade Talman! Resultatet i det amerkanska valet väcker frågor om eventuella kursändringar i den amerkanska inrikespolitiken men förstås också berättigade frågor om resultatets inverkan på president Trumps roll och framtid. Samtidigt är det klart att sågott som varje krusning på ytan i amerikansk inrikespolitik också går som ringar på vattnet i utrikespolitiken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u67	Madam President! I am very pleased that Mrs Wallin raised this important issue. Cooperation between the USA and the EU and Europe is absolutely essential for world peace, trade policy, foreign and security policy and many other important policy sectors. It is important that Western democracies, with the rule of law, converge, cooperate, go in the same direction. This election result is significant in the sense that the majority of the House now went to the democrats. The Senate survived the Republicans, the president is a Republican. This so-called 'checks and balances' system, a balance system, now, as if the result of the election, means that we are increasingly exposed to negotiations there in American domestic politics, and now we in Europe need to realise that the moment must also be used, be active, take initiatives, work together, because our economic success also depends on free trade and our products and services reaching the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u68	Mr President! Let us really hope that this result is some kind of new beginning. After all, during this parliamentary term, the US administration, perhaps especially the Foreign Affairs Administration, has been under quite a lot of pressure. It took a long time for the President to build a functioning administration in, for example, the state department. Yesterday we learned that the Attorney General has left or had to leave. What do you think this means? But could it mean that the importance of bilateral, personal relations, for example between Finnish and American politicians, is emphasised, and how does the government intend, as it were, to promote such bridge building at a personal level between American and Finnish politicians?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u69	Mr President! This is very important. We need not only structures, bilateral relations, but also personal relations. That is why I am very pleased that the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs regularly visits the United States, the UN, Washington. This is extremely important. And the government is also cooperating, and the government is well connected to the United States, and there will be a visitation exchange. It is also a great thing that there were sums in Finland in 2018, when President Niinistö hosted Presidents Trump and Putin. Finland has a role to play in this, Finland is active. We must have our own initiatives, as we do with black coal in environmental matters, many other things. But it is also important in a tough foreign and security policy that Europe and the United States work together and also through an international rule-based framework. We are also trying to signal that this is in the interests of the whole of Western Europe and of the free world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u70	Madam President! It is only interesting that we Finns are also moved by the mid-term elections in the United States. We are in such a world village where interdependence is so great that what is happening in the United States also affects us. In a certain way, the interim elections were a relief. After all, the normal logic of politics has not completely disappeared in this trumpetism, but the polls were moderate and the opposition were quite successful in suing Trump's administration, which is certainly good news. Nevertheless, under the leadership of the Trump Administration, the United States has withdrawn from multilateral international cooperation, cut UN funding, resigned from UNESCO, resigned from the Paris climate agreement, wrecked the Iran Agreement and so on, and this is a huge challenge for us and this will not change for a while. In the coming year, Finland may be in a sort of goalmaker or quarterback position now that we are the Presidency of the European Union from the beginning of July 2019. How do you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, see: how should Finland now redeem this place and this article so that transatlantic contacts and, above all, multilateral international rule-based cooperation are once again flourishing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u71	Madam President! Of course, it is obvious that both Finland and Europe must always work together. It cannot be just a question of who happens to win an election or whether someone is being held or not. A big strategic advantage is that interests, issues, trade policy, foreign and security policy always go ahead. That is why, of course, it is entirely up to the citizens of the United States of America what kind of election result they will do, as is our case in Finland. But this is important what the representative said. It is precisely now, I believe, that we, as Finland and Europe, have the opportunity and also a number of opportunities, for example in trade policy, to look forward to these things. But what is interesting is that Democrats have generally been more protectionist than President and Republicans in favour of free trade, which has been different. Now, however, it is important that both through Congress:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u72	Mr President! The meeting of the European People's Party has been held at the Exhibition Centre this week,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u73	Madam President! The competition in the world is also fierce economically, and that is why Europe must be in good shape and keep its economy in order, its exports, its imports, because the USA obviously has other interests, Asia, Africa and others. Cooperation must be open and proactive, and there must be a desire to cooperate. If there are no perpetrators, the perpetrators of this matter, or we hide behind the fact that people don't like someone, it won't help. Those are the things that exist. In my view, it is important that we have extensive contacts with democrats and Republicans, including President Trump's administration, because there are also issues that cannot be resolved without world crises.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u74	Next question: the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u75	Madam President! Indoor air problems cause great concern in symptomatic and ill patients and in their loved ones. In autumn 2017, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä set up a project group to prepare the Healthy Spaces 2028 action programme and aims to guide the work of various actors in order to restore indoor air-related buildings and improve the treatment and rehabilitation of all indoor air-stricken people. The National Indoor Air and Health Programme of the THL was published last week and has received a very contradictory response to other tastes because it has been perceived to label serious indoor air diseases as psychosomatic symptoms. A significant proportion of Finns are exposed to indoor air problems and the symptoms are serious in both children and adults, and of course some of the problems with the treatment of indoor air diseases are related to the lack of good diagnostic methods. I would have asked the Minister in charge: what does the government intend to do to improve the legal protection of indoor-air sufferers, housing, study and work opportunities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u76	Madam President! That is an extremely good question, and I hope, for my part, that no one will feel that they have been stamped in favour of this report. I will answer as far as this is in my sector. This is the responsibility of a very large number of ministries. As with the THL, a good dialogue has been reached with Kela, precisely that when there is currently no diagnosis-based rehabilitation, how can we get out of this situation and how can it be developed, for example, through discretionary rehabilitation? There is so far no prepared model for this, but the debate has been good in that respect. I believe that this report is a step in the right direction, but I am sure it is still insufficient for us to have specific points to show in order to improve the situation of these people. But this is a good place to go. This is the right way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u77	Madam President! It is clear that the problem of indoor air is not yet sufficiently well known. In its alternative budget, the Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party has proposed the establishment of indoor air policlinics in connection with university hospitals and also an increase in funding for the study of indoor air problems and facilities. I would like to ask the minister concerned: what does the government intend to do to promote research into indoor air problems and related symptoms?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u78	Mr President! In my opinion, the government's desire and the way in which it treats Finnish healthier spaces, and hence the indoor air and the related symptoms, have been quite exceptionally serious. We have set a broad goal over the term of government, which does not approach the issue, as it were, from the worst of the consequences, as in this question, but, above all, by considering how the facilities in Finland would be built and maintained so well that none of them would become ill. As far as your presentation of these clinics is concerned, this programme of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, which is part of a larger whole of healthy facilities developed under the leadership of Minister Tiilikainen, responds to what we know all about, what we need to find out more. I personally cannot think that issues relating to humidity and indoor air damage are automatically questions related to the emergency clinics of special medical care, but we need more and more identification of problems in the health centres for basic health care. I'd rather start with that than a single special medical clinic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u79	Let us take three more specific questions to this end from the various parliamentary groups. — Centre Party Parliamentary Group, representative Pirttilahti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u80	Madam President! The IPCC climate report has contributed to the concern and debate about how we prevent global warming — well done. The Centre is also committed to rapid and sustainable measures, which will limit CO2 emissions. The other side of the debate has perhaps been more active, dealing with carbon sinks and forest fellings. I'm wondering what the SDP's statement to Antti Rinte says about the need to cut down the fellings. This has caused concern in industry and in new investment. According to Luke, however, our wood reserves have grown and annual growth has also grown, approaching 110 million cubic metres already. In my opinion, carbon sinks remain in order when forests are cut, treated, beaten and planted. Young and growing forests are good carbon sinks. Mr President! I ask Minister Tiilikainen: do we now have to reduce fellings, as Mr Rinne suggests, or can they be grown?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u81	Mr President! Indeed, in order to combat climate change, we need to reduce emissions rapidly, especially from fossil energy resources under the earth’s crust: coal, oil and gas. This is something we must quickly reduce. In addition to this, we must long-term ensure that the world's forest area is growing, that forests grow better than today, that their growth capacity is maintained, that carbon sinks and carbon stocks remain in good condition and sufficient. This is why it is worth strengthening these carbon sinks in Finland, too, by increasing the forest sector, improving forest management, by managing the thinning waste of young forests in time to keep the forests healthy. We do not need to reduce the use of wood, as some have suggested here, because we currently have tens of millions of cubic metres of forest growth more than we do, which means that our forests are growing carbon stocks and growing stocks of wood. In a sustainable way, we can still afford even moderately to increase the use of wood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u82	Mr President! Congressman, let's go to the election before we see who's gonna answer that question. [ Hulls on the right] But I would like to say that the forestry industry is a very important issue for Finland. It has been a very important source of prosperity, it is a very important source of employment, and the Social Democratic Party is behind the fact that the forest industry will continue to have a raw material for the future, for new projects, for existing projects. This is quite clear to the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u83	Is that a question?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u84	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity. — I recognised that Mrs Rinne is giving broad support to the Government's line of action, where CO2 emissions are consistently and strictly reduced and long-term concern for forest growth. Against that background, I am surprised that you, Mrs Rinne, in the Presidential interview with the Helsingin Sanomat, will answer that the use of wood must be reduced. You will then be obliged to tell us which industrial plants will be closed down, because our current use of wood is at a sustainable level, and that is what we want to continue to do. In fact, Mr President, if the use of wood is suddenly reduced, what will be the consequences for the world's climate?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u85	Two more questions to ask. — Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, represented by Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u86	Mr President! Future generations must also have the opportunity to enjoy biodiversity and clean, healthy waters. The protection of the Baltic Sea is one of our most important environmental protection objectives, and it is good that we are now allocating EUR 15 million per year for the protection of the Baltic Sea and for the improvement of water bodies in the coming years. After the allocation of this appropriation, it is important to ensure that its use is also allocated in an effective manner, both in terms of its regional distribution and in terms of the measures to be taken with this money. We also asked about this allocation in committee, but the answer was still a little unclear. I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen how this additional allocation for the protection of the Baltic Sea will be allocated and distributed in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u87	Mr President! The question raised by Mr Sirén is a very important one. I am, of course, proud, on behalf of the entire government, of this historic effort to protect the Baltic Sea and the waters. On an annual basis, we have never seen this kind of additional effort in Finland. Targeting is now being considered at the Ministry of the Environment, and in part also in cooperation with other ministries. I think it is important that this additional money achieves the most concrete and rapid measures to reduce nutrient loads, but at the same time we must remember that some of the money is also justified in maintaining the good condition and condition of inland waterways, because water resources are equally important, whether it be the sea, rivers or lakes, and they are equally dear to us Finns. The precise targeting will be completed this year, and it is essential that it achieves tangible, rapid results.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u88	And there's one more question. — Blue Parliamentary Group, representative Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u89	Mr President! Yesterday, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health completed a major task, thanks to the fact that it sent three draft reports on social and regional reform for evaluation by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When, on the left side of this Chamber, we are happy to talk about social welfare reform when something does not happen, it is not progressing, so now is the time to bring it up even when something happens and it is moving forward. This reform is so great that there are, of course, many issues to be addressed here. The perspective of the provinces is very important here. For several years, important preparatory work has been carried out for hundreds of millions of euros. The provinces expect further progress on this issue. You, Mr Rinne, have even said that you do not like this model and you want to bring it down. I would like to say a quote to you: let us have the election first, as you yourself have just said. The question is whether this will be done out of control or out of control. If this social and regional reform is not carried out, the uncontrolled wave of outsourcing will go to our municipalities. So I ask the Minister: what is your message to the provinces and, above all, what is your message to the ordinary Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u91	Mr President! It is a very good thing that yesterday the Committee on Social Affairs and Health had its part in getting its work done here, and now it goes to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, then to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and then here to the House for our full consideration. And I would like to say this when we closely monitor the preparatory work in the provinces, that nothing is expected there as much as there is a decision being made here in Parliament. This is the serious message, and also in discussions with the citizens, I feel that I am getting the message and that the whole government is getting a lot of the message that you must finish, get it done. The sixth government — the fifth model. And in the next parliamentary term there will be other major reforms that need to be made, social reform and, for example, securing skilled labour, changes to tax systems. So the message here is that this is now in our common hands here in Parliament and it is also under great pressure from the outside to get done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u92	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u93	Mr President, ärade talman! Children must be protected from violence by all means possible. I consider sexual crimes against children to be particularly gross. These acts affect victims for a very long time, often throughout their lives. The proposal before us therefore proposes to tighten the penalties for serious sexual crimes against children. The proposal is part of a package of five government proposals prepared by me at the Ministry of Justice to tighten up the sanctions policy. The aim is to highlight the seriousness of the actions and their impact on the victim. It is also intended to make a turning point in criminal policy so that in future the victim will play a more important role than the offender. The strengthening of penalties also underlines the importance of the physical integrity of children. Mr President! The proposal proposes that the maximum penalty for sexual exploitation of a child be increased from four to six years in prison. In addition, a new penal code for aggravated child rape would be added to the penal code. Crime would be punishable by the same act of aggravated rape and aggravated sexual abuse of a child. The penalty scale would be between 4 and 12 years of imprisonment, which would correspond to the maximum penalty for manslaughter. Mr President! In accordance with the Government Programme, the changes are targeted specifically at the most serious sexual offences. They stress the importance of the child’s physical integrity and a more severe attitude towards sexual offences against children. This can also be expected to affect attitudes and, as a result, the behaviour of potential offenders within the limits in which it is possible to influence them at all by means of criminal law. Preventing crime is not free. The proposal will increase the number of prisoners and the cost of enforcing sanctions. The impact is not yet reflected in next year's budget, but funding has been provided in the framework of the coming years. It is crime prevention through criminal justice policy and sanctions that is a political choice of values. Investing in penalties does not mean, however, that other crime prevention is abandoned at the same time. The importance of penalties should not be overemphasized in the prevention of crime but should not be underestimated. Sexual offences must be prevented not only by punishment but also by the fight against crime in general and by affecting the behaviour of those who have already been convicted of crimes. At the same time, the stake in prison sentences is also in the rehabilitation of those sentenced to prison and in the prevention of re-crime. Mr President! I would like to emphasise that this proposal is taking the focus of penal policy in an ever stronger direction that takes account of the victim.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u94	Let's go on the list for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u95	Madam President! The government's proposal is very welcome. The public’s general sense of justice has recently been put to the test when, for example, the Supreme Court recently, as reported in May 2018, rejected an appeal application for a sexual offence against a 10-year-old girl in Pirkanmaa in autumn 2016. The prosecutor and the plaintiffs, i.e. the child’s parents, also charged the child with aggravated sexual abuse, but both courts rejected this charge. According to the judgments of the District Court and the Court of Appeal, it had not been shown that sexual intercourse was done by violence or that the child was in a state of fear or other helpless state. The prosecutor pleaded for coercion, but her parents pleaded that the child was in a helpless state for his age to express his will. The application for a permit of appeal required an increase in the penalty for a man and in compensation for a man. The Pirkanmaa District Court and the Turku Court of Appeal sentenced the guilty man to three years of unconditional imprisonment for sexual abuse of the child. In the case of a 10-year-old, the lower courts found no evidence that the act was committed against the child’s will. This gave rise to much debate, and the judgment was not considered to be in line with the public sense of justice. How dare a 10-year-old child show his will if he is threatened by a grown man? The government proposal proposes that the maximum penalty for sexual abuse of a child be increased from four to six years in prison. In addition, a new penal code for aggravated child rape would be added to the penal code. Crime would be punishable by the same act of aggravated rape and sexual abuse of a child with sexual intercourse. The penalty scale would be between 4 and 12 years of imprisonment, which would mean that the minimum penalty would be severed. It really is time to update the law. We must give a strong signal that sexual crimes against children are particularly serious crimes. No kind of ultraliberalism should be given room for such a serious matter. I also hope that, in the future, the Finnish People's Understanding Party will not go down the path that has been seen in Europe in the 1980s when certain people, representatives of certain parties, felt that paedophilia should be legalised. In the Netherlands, for example, between 2006 and 2010, there was a PNVD, whose members were paedophiles. In Finland, penalties for sexual offences against children could be further tightened. Tough punishments for serious crimes. This would also be more in line with the general sense of justice. There have now been too many public cases where punishments have been too mild, and this has given rise to great public concern. If you think that this is such a type of crime that these perpetrators often renew their actions, even though prison does not necessarily cure anyone, there is a point here, too, which the Minister did not mention just now, that at least while these offenders are in the closet, so to speak, they are not committing new crimes. So our children will be safe at least for the time being. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u96	And then Mr. Räsänen. Let us then make a few debatable remarks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u97	Madam President! We must thank the Government and Minister Häkkänen for this proposal. The proposal is very good and expected, and I particularly appreciate the principle that Minister Häkkänen has repeatedly suggested that when considering the severity of the penalties, the victim should be placed in a more important position than the offender. I believe that this legislation is well in line with this principle. — It must be noted that the present practice of punishment sends out the wrong message if, with very short prison sentences, these crimes against children can be offset, which, however, often have consequences for the child for life. However, I would like to point out the lack that, at the moment, the prosecutions of serious sexual offences will expire in 20 years, at the earliest, when the victim reaches the age of 28. However, the main problem with these periods of aging is the serious sexual crimes against the smallest children, in which this period of aging, which was extended in 2005, is too fast. Mental detachment and independence from one’s parents usually take place at the age of thirty, according to developmental psychology, and it is typically time to set up your own family. Often it is only then that a person is fully mature to evaluate the treatment he has experienced as a child. A serious sexual offence against a child is an act of which it is often difficult for the plaintiff to inform the authorities during this current period of aging. After all, the child does not necessarily understand what is at stake, yet these acts leave the victim with lasting and difficult trauma. Often the perpetrator may be a familiar and close adult — especially in these small children’s cases — who can also manipulate the victim’s silence. Sexual crimes against children are typical of the victim’s feelings of shame and guilt, while the offender may explain matters favorably to himself. For this reason, these may only surface in the later stages of the victim’s life, such as becoming his own mother, and only then will there be a strong need to settle the matter. That is why I think that, while this penalty scale is being made fairer, it is important that these crimes should also be effectively resolved and that punishment should also be given a chance at later stages. When these periods of aging have been discussed, it has often been criticised that they give false hope when it is difficult or even impossible to obtain evidence of crimes after decades, but there are still cases, including those that have been dealt with in public, where sexual offences are discovered. These have now been discussed by the world on quite large scale. For example, the evidence can be obtained through witness statements or recordings, and this same criminal may have continued to operate for decades. In some cases, even the perpetrator himself would like to acknowledge and hope for criminal proceedings, but if it is out of date, it will no longer be able to be dealt with legally. That is why I would like Mr Häkkänen to comment on this issue of aging age, which, in my view, is also as important as this increase in penalty scales, for which I therefore commend the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u98	Then let's go to the answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u99	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister and to the Government for the consistent approach that has been followed in this area in terms of criminal law and the penalty scales during this term of government. This is a policy that will certainly please the citizens. As the Minister said, sanctions are not a priority in themselves and their hardening is not a priority. That is not the priority. The priority is to send the right message through legislation, to influence the climate of attitude, to prevent and make them visible, as they should be. Or, as Mrs Räsänen has said here, there are different kinds of backpacks and wonderful crowds moving around, and we have to get a firm attitude on them once and for all. What the Minister also stressed is that the factors are not healthy, and because they are not healthy, they also need help. Western society includes it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u100	Mr President! It is very important that this proposal should increase the maximum penalty for sexual abuse of a child from four to six years in prison and add to the penal code, for example, a new provision on aggravated child rape. As Mr Kiuru has pointed out here, these are certainly reforms that correspond to the public's sense of justice, and this proposal is based on the strategic programme of the government, which is precisely that these penalties must better reflect that act, its seriousness and the public's sense of justice. This work was started under Minister of Justice Jari Lindström, and it is commendable that Minister Häkkänen continues to do so. I would also like to raise the issue of the scale of our penalties in general. For the time being, the longest life sentence in Finland is 22 years. Blues have demanded that there should be a real life sentence in the legislation, because I do believe that, unfortunately, it is not possible for everyone to improve and return to society. In England and Wales, for example, such a life sentence is possible. In Norway, too, it has been considered, for example, in relation to the Anders Breivik case. How does the Minister view this reflection on what has happened in different countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u101	Madam President! This government proposal is excellent and it is one that tightens penalties for perhaps one of the most repugnant and outrageous crimes we can imagine. These are extortions for the punishments that come from all the most outrageous sexual crimes against children, the most terrible and terrible acts, and these are a good response from the government and a good response to certain convictions that may have been difficult to understand in relation to the seriousness of the act. But I would ask the Minister of Justice — we have had this debate before, but it is worth mentioning here too — whether the whole chapter of the criminal code, that is to say the chapter on sexual offences, is going to be a total reform, because it is 20 years old and society and values have changed a little over the last 20 years. When there is always a problem with legislation that patchwork is corrected, is the overall reform of sexual crimes to be carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u102	Madam President! This is a welcome proposal and certainly a very broad sense of justice in this country. We have all read and heard about cases in which understanding is put to the test when the judiciary has not been able to determine penalties for the perpetrators of serious crimes that would be justified. I would like to draw attention to what the representative has to say. Mr Räsänen said in his excellent speech about the age of serious sexual crimes. I fully agree with Mrs Räsänen that we should look at these criteria, because there is a very solid argument that, for example, many serious crimes against children may only be revealed with a long delay, and it is therefore important that they be tackled. I would also like to welcome the overall review which Mr Kurvinen called for. I believe that we still have a lot to fix in the area of sexual crime legislation and in the criminal code in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u103	Mr President! The main objective of the UN’s children’s rights is to secure the basic conditions of life and a safe environment for growth for each child. The sexual exploitation of a child is a form of violence that leaves life-long damage and marks on a child, and it is excellent that Minister Häkkänen has taken this proposal on board. This is a proposal to tighten penalties and to anchor penalties. I believe that Finns are also prepared to accept the costs of tightening the penalties for these crimes. However, it is in the interests of our children and also, I believe, of the human sense of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u104	Mr President! As such, I do not like Parliament's criminal law populism and that is why I make it clear from this motion that, according to your own assessment, this proposal has a very minor impact on penalties, the effect of just under 13 years of imprisonment. Even in public, this reform has become the view of a few professors of criminal law that this is a rather apparent reform. The problem, then, is that if we want to increase the penalties for crimes, then we need to raise the minimum threshold for criminal offences, not the upper limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u107	Irade fru talman! Regeringen föreslår att det till strafflagen fogas en ny bestemmelse om grov våldtäkt mot barn. Också maximistraffet för sexuellt utnyjande av barn föreslås höjas. Utgångspunkten är att barn aldrig kan ge ett giltigt samtycke till samlag med en vuxen. Det är mycket viktigt och jag stöder förslagen. I våras fanns ett uppmärksammat och också överraskande fall där högsta domstolen meddelade att man inte beviljade besvärsrätt i ett fall där en 22-åring hade samlag med ett tiioårigt barn. Mannen dömdes visserligen till treårs ollkorligt fängelse för grovt sexuellt utnynde, men inte för våldtäkt, något åklagare hade yrkat på. Tingsrätten och hovrätten ansåg att det inte kunde bevisas att samlaget sketch mot barnets grain eller att barnet skulle ha kunt rädsla eller variants hjälplöst. Det är sjukt om ett 10-årigt barn ska behöva bevisa att det variants hjälplöst eller känt rädsla. Det är ett barn det handlar om, och så klart är ett barn alltid hjälplöst mot en vuxen. Barn måste få vara barn och måste skyddas och lagen måste ge dem det rättsskydd som de behöver.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u108	Mr President! After all, this bill is extremely good and worthy of support. Then the details that are the penalties can be discussed later. But I would like to see one more sentence added, starting right away, and that is that the planning of gross exploitation and sexual activity of a child is also a punishable act. In the Criminal Code, of course, planning a serious crime against life and health must be punished, but now that we have the children brought up, I would like to see this matter taken into account in this legislation. This issue has been raised by the police, those who are working on sexual crimes against children. They say they don't have the means. If they know that there is a plan, but when there is no action, they have no means. However, this would possibly be one way to prevent the sexual abuse of a child or the gross sexual abuse and rape of a child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u109	Madam President! I would also like to thank the Minister for this bill. I've made two legal initiatives in connection with the hardening of punishments. The last one is from 2015. It is great that things have finally progressed, and it has progressed on your initiative, and you deserve to be commended for that. I would like to ask, however, that, now that the maximum penalties are being increased, how can we guarantee that the penalty actually works, because it is so that minimum penalties should be raised there? I would also like to ask whether serious child abuse remains in the legislation in such a way that it is possible to get away with it and not go to jail. Is it so now that if you commit child rape or gross sexual assault on a child, you go to jail for it? I am also asking about abortion legislation, because it is now the case that an abortion decision for a child under 17 years of age, such as a young person who has been raped, requires a single doctor's decision, but for an adult woman, two. And this was, for example, a loophole to what happened in Oulu,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u110	Madam President! As has been well raised in this debate, this proposal does well reflect the Finnish sense of justice that rapes and aggravated sexual offences against children are something that must be punished hard enough. I am also in favour of Mr Räsänen's idea that we should consider the age of old age, because, as has been shown here, these cases may often only come up in adulthood. For example, when you start a family and have children, those memories come to the surface. I would also like to ask the Minister, when this case has come up, where the abuse or rape of a 10-year-old was not defined as rape because it was considered that the child did not resist enough, how is this proposal, where the definition of rape would be raised as a lack of consent, going forward? In these cases of rape, it often happens that the victim is unable to resist, the victim freezes,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u111	Mr President! As has been pointed out in this debate, in recent years, there has been a major public debate, particularly on these cases of sexual crimes against children, where the punishment of the offender has not been in line with the victim's sense of justice, nor with the general public's sense of justice, and it is therefore important that this government's proposal is now corrected. The proposal would therefore increase the maximum penalty for sexual abuse of a child from four to six years and add a new penalty rule for aggravated child rape to the Criminal Code. We have dealt with the citizens' initiative in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which dates back to 2015, specifically on the strengthening of the penalties for serious sexual crimes against children. We have not taken this citizens' initiative to the level of the report, because we have been waiting to see whether it would still be possible to clarify these issues during this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u112	Mr President! This government proposal is good and worthy of support, and it brings criminal law in these very serious matters even a little closer to the general public's sense of justice. However, there has been a great need for citizens' initiatives, for more than one hundred legal initiatives and for incomprehensible public cases that this matter has finally progressed. It has already begun to be a problem for the whole credibility of Parliament that this cannot be promoted. What is bad about this is the basic reason why it is necessary to legislate on such a law at all. Why, in general, should minimum standards be raised when the law would have already made it possible to judge more severe sentences, but the judiciary has not judged them and even the few judgments given need to sit from day to day. I would see that this is more of a problem in the judgment of our judiciary, in the ideological basis and in the dignity of the people working there, but we are doing what we can here in Parliament to remedy these issues despite these problems of attitude.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u113	Mr President! Children must be protected from sexual violence. These gross acts leave permanent wounds to the soul. This proposal by Minister Häkkänen is therefore very welcome and it is a real pity that this important citizens' initiative has had to wait so long in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let us hope that we can now deal with it in this context. The hardening of these penalties is therefore to be welcomed as a means of preventing these acts. The Minister himself spoke of rehabilitation of convicted people in order to prevent new forms of action. The victims are scared and wounded. We have to do everything we can to help them. I would therefore like to ask Minister Häkkäinen how the status of the child and the rights of the victim are safeguarded in the judicial process: how is the right process for a wounded, frightened child taken into account his or her weak position and yet in such a way that criminals are punished for their actions?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u114	Madam President! I too would like to extend warm thanks to Minister Häkkänen. This bill, which is now under discussion, has indeed been long awaited and very necessary, because it has been against the public's sense of justice what sexual abuse or rape of children, gross cases, has been and how mild these penalties have been. I would also like to raise the issue of extending the expiry period of the crime raised by Mrs Räsänen and a number of other representatives. I would like this to be addressed, because really the younger the child has been when abuse or rape has taken place, the deeper it may have been compartmentalized into memory, can only come out when your own family is being set up or your own child is having a child, or when your own child has had a child, in other words, a grandchild’s reaction in the grandmother may awaken the memories. And another point I would like to ask: the victim is now at the heart of the crime, rather than the offender — it is quite right — but, as has been said here, often the perpetrators are victims. In what way would more attention be paid to the treatment of these offender victims in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u115	Madam President! I am surprised that there is some misinformation about this matter on the part of the Finns. It is precisely here that minimum penalties are being laid down, two more years, that is, the penalty scale being increased to four years, and that means absolute punishment. This has to be put right in the Minutes, and hopefully also in the light of what is going to happen. What is also essential is that the child will never be able to give consent to sex, sexual intercourse, adulthood, and I would ask the Minister whether there is going to be a step forward in which a lack of consent would also be added to the general description of rape. This issue of the aging of gross sexual abuse of a child has been on the table. Together with my colleague, Mr Tuomo Puumala, I have taken an initiative with over a hundred signatures to ensure that they never get old. I would like to ask the Minister: could you, as an infectious minister, still take care of this in the rest of the season?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u116	And yet another person who has not yet received the floor on this matter is Mr Kauma, and then the Minister's reply, and then we will go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u117	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that this proposal is now coming to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for us to assess and deal with. I would like to draw attention to the same questions as, for example, Mr Tavio with regard to the maximum penalties. They are now rising from four to six years, but is there any particular reason other than economic issues, which is why these minimum penalties were not specifically mentioned here? Then the second question, which is actually linked to this, is whether you see this as such an interim improvement. Are we still in the process of reforming Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code this season? I think it was Mr Kurvinen who brought this up. But, of course, at the time the offender is punished, a great evil has already happened in the life of that child, and one must consider how to prevent the recurrence of the crime of these offenders. For example, there has been a stop programme in Riihimäki prison, which has produced good results, but also some contradictory results. It has been found that sexual offenders have been able to exchange information and different methods among others, and this is, of course, counterproductive for the renewal of the crime. What do you think is the future of this Stop program?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u118	Then the Minister's answer, three minutes. Then let's go to the list of speakers. Let me remind you that we will only spend 45 minutes on this, so we will have time to take a single floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u119	Mr President! Thank you so much for the thanks. I believe that such issues are those that enjoy, a little like sports clubs in spite of political colours, quite broad support, but not just because of hardening, but based on careful social assessment and analysis. It is not intended to impose foot-and-mouth penalties on everyone just like that, but it is done to cool and update the criminal policy system based on a thorough assessment. So many questions came up that I probably don't have time for everyone to answer, but let's try. First of all, limitation periods. We have a starting point for these homicides and the most serious crimes, such as murder that does not get old. In this respect, I have already set in motion a little clarification as to how we might look at the limitation periods for offences against children. Those limitation periods are long now, but the problem is that the courage to speak, or perhaps, in a way, the knowledge that has happened, will only be revealed when the person is perhaps more than thirty, forty, or perhaps even more older, in working life. So this is where the problem comes in. The challenges raised by former Minister of the Interior, Päivi Räsänen, are also very difficult to achieve. But is that, in a way, sufficient reason for not even opening these things? [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u122	And then on the list of speakers. So we have time to take the floor, Mr Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u123	Madam President! A minor, whether a child or a young person, has the right to childhood and youth, which does not involve any form of sexual harassment or abuse. As a former secondary school teacher, I am regrettably aware that early-onset promiscuity or consentive sex tends to have an adverse effect on those who are still immature in their mental development. The effects may also become apparent much later than in the years of youth. There are young people under 16 years of age who are at different stages of development, many of whom already look like men and women but who are still children in their spiritual development. The Government’s bill aims to protect those younger than 16 years of age so that sexual intercourse is unequivocally unlawful and that the minimum penalty for committing sexual activity is increased from the present four to six years. This clearly signals the will of our society to protect children and young people from sexual abuse, which can always be regarded as activity when the other party to sexual activity is under 16 years of age. The new thinking in the bill is the view that sexual intercourse with a minor does not require the consent of the person concerned, but the starting point is that sexual contact with a minor is always a criminal activity. One may even wonder that this fact has not previously been enshrined in the law. Perhaps even in public, an unfortunate example in which a little over 10-year-old has had sexual intercourse with an adult without any clear opposition has given rise to a need for legislation so that sexual contact with a child is not more acceptable even if a clear ban is not expressed. However, the child is a child whose will condition may not be clearly expressed in such a situation. It is up to society to protect the weaker party from abuse by criminalising the situation as a whole. Mr President! I particularly welcome the government bill because we live in a world where we cannot fully protect our children and young people from over-sexualised advertising and communication. We can support the growth and dignity of our children and young people, so that they would not be too vulnerable to things and experiences that clearly belong to the adult world. When implemented, the law sends a clear message to adults that it is always wrong to touch a child and a young person, even if this person himself might change the message. The ultimate responsibility for the situation and the course of events always rests with the adult.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u124	There are indeed requests to speak on the list now, but all of you who are now here in the requests to speak have already had one speech this afternoon, and since the Minister's timetables are what they are, we will have to move on to the next item. In other words, the debate and the proceedings are suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u125	We will now resume the debate on the third item which has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u126	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u127	Mr President! Once again, a very pleasant draft law is being discussed. Children should have children. Marriage is something that belongs to two adults who, of their own free will, want to tie it. The exemption procedure for minors' marriages has rightly been the subject of criticism in other countries for several years. It is now time to address it in Finland too. My assignment has been prepared for the bill now before us, which proposes that marriage as a minor be banned in Finland altogether. At the time, an exemption procedure was considered necessary. Lived in a world where common - law marriage and children born out of wedlock were very much viewed. Moreover, the legal status of a child born out of wedlock was also uncertain. In the 1990s, the exemption procedure was still particularly in use. As many as a hundred permits were granted each year by the Ministry of Justice. However, in recent decades, attitudes in society have become more tolerant in this regard. Today, more and more youths choose dating and cohabiting instead of marriage. Marriages in general have decreased, and they are also concluded at a later age. Even the first children are getting older and often out of wedlock. Mr President! At international level, there is a constant desire to eradicate child marriages altogether. This is part of Finland’s foreign policy. In many developing countries, child marriages are a major problem that is detrimental to girls’ health and educational opportunities. By abandoning the exemption procedure, we are sending out a stronger and more credible signal of our commitment to work to improve the rights of girls internationally. Finland sends a strong international signal by giving up the marriage of minors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u128	Madam President! Just as the Minister of Justice says, marriage belongs to two adults who willingly and voluntarily engage in it. That is why it is very good that child marriages are banned. But this law leaves the other side open, and then it means that when we talk about forced marriages, there are still situations where the consent and voluntary nature of both parties are not involved. The Istanbul Convention obliges the countries that have ratified it, among other things, to criminalise forced marriages, and, as we all know, Finland has ratified this agreement, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister how we intend to promote the criminalisation of forced marriages. It would also facilitate their identification in this country. At the moment, they are hardly reported at all, and that is why cases in criminal proceedings do not end up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u129	Madam President! With regard to the previous proposal by the Ministry of Justice, we discussed how the change in society and the change in values can be seen and called for changes in our fundamental laws, such as the Criminal Code and the Marriage Act, and this is a typical example of the abolition of this famous exemption procedure. In the past, the President of the Republic gave it to me and now the Ministry of Justice, and I myself know people who married with Kekkonen's permission, so with Kekkonen's permission, marriage will stop, and that is the right thing to do. This is a certain kind of message about a certain kind of value-taking that children must have the right to childhood and young people to youth. I would ask the Minister of Justice that this does not have any negative effects on the people who, although they have now been married at 17 this year, theoretically. Then perhaps I would say — and I myself think it is a good idea to criminalize forced marriages — that we should remember here in Parliament that evil
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u130	Mr President! I too would like to thank the Minister for this bill. This is very important that we, in fact, ban these child marriages and allow the child to be a child until the age of 18, which the law says is the age of adulthood. These forced marriages were also mentioned here. I think it is important that they also be criminalised. It will certainly not remove them, just as Mr Kurvin said, the problem will not disappear if they are found illegal, but it will certainly help to bring the matter under control. And above all, it is important that this particular kind of forced marriages be annulled, and in that we can help these people who have been in forced marriage, that they are not only dismantled but are precisely annulled. Then they will not remain in the register, and in their own lives such an annulment will be a great help.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u131	Madam President! I also think that this is a very good change of law, which is about to happen. So far, a few dozen applications have come in each year, most of which have been based on pregnancy, religious beliefs or cultural reasons. Of course, now that immigration has increased in Finland and in some countries it is very typical that parents look ahead to their underage children, this type of arrangement has certainly increased. I'd like to ask the minister: What is the current situation? Are there any requests waiting for such immigrant families to legalize their marriage? And if you have already received permission for such a marriage, will they then be annulled?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u132	Madam President! Children really need to be children, young people, to grow up and develop in peace, hopefully, even sexually, before this type of living or relationships, let us say that, is done. It is certainly a good presentation, and child marriages must be banned, just as forced marriages must be annulled, as has been said here. Of course, we in Finland have largely had to marry these 17-year-olds who have become pregnant and then wanted to formalise their relationship. But if you think that we have increased immigration and now there are different cultural backgrounds and, increasingly, perhaps underage marriages, then it certainly makes sense and it is good to draw the line to adulthood. However, I would like to ask that if minors are cohabiting or we have immigrants who may have more than one wife, who may have more than one minor, perhaps one official, but then more, then in what way in the Ministry these issues have been thought to be dealt with accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u133	Madam President! Now, of course, perhaps partly because of those with foreign backgrounds, this legislation will have to be amended. In some ways I had understood that if you are a few months old and you are 18 years old and you are a pregnant young woman, you may have been allowed to marry with an exception, but I understand that, in line with the UN recommendation of 2015, we are now following the Swedish, Norwegian and Danish model, where this is also banned from these nearly 18-year-olds. I would ask Minister of Justice Häkkkäs — the biggest problem is that we have forced marriages of foreign origin that take place abroad, i.e. when a Finnish girl is taken abroad and forced there: is this legislation going to interfere with it, i.e. can such forced marriages or child marriages be cancelled abroad?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u134	Madam President! Again, our Attorney General is doing a good job, thank you for that. You've brought an important performance here in the hall. Even the Greens' political agenda takes a position on the criminalisation of child marriages and their removal from the law and also on the prohibition of forced marriages. They are, of course, partly their own questions, even though they have similarities. For forced marriages it seems that there is also a very broad understanding among those present that there is at least a need to investigate more closely whether it is possible to criminalise them more quickly and also to invalidate them. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in Finland’s development aid — which goes a little outside the Ministry of Justice’s remit — we place great emphasis on promoting the rights of girls. I think that the fight against child marriages is something that we should also take into account there, and I hope that you will send a message to your colleague, the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u135	One more reply, then we will go to the list of speakers. Representative Talvitie, reply, and then the list of speakers, Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u136	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Häkkänen, for bringing this amendment to the marriage law here and an important matter. As the Minister said, children have the right to be children. This proposal also responds to the same path that we are equal to the Nordic countries, with Sweden and Denmark and Norway. The Committee on Legal Affairs also deals with this large package of laws relating to child custody and access rights, which is also a good package. This will, in a way, tie these together, will also update this legislation in that respect. But then I would have asked a small question, which I did not immediately find in this government proposal, that if there is a person under the age of 18 but a Finnish citizen and intends to marry in another country where there is a possibility of marriage to a person under the age of 18: do the Finnish laws or the laws of another country apply to the person, and how do we proceed with this? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u137	And then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u138	Mr President! Indeed, today's session is dealing with an important whole when it comes to the protection and protection of children and young people, and this bill, which we are discussing today, is in many ways well-founded precisely in order to strengthen the rights of children and young people and, as Mr Häkkänen said, also to send an international message. It should be noted, however, that this applies in practice to a relatively small number of people at the moment. So according to the own arguments of this government proposal, at the end of 2017, we had a total of five married minors, and mainly these marriages are made on that very threshold of 18 years, i.e. 17 years of age, so it is good to take it into account. In other words, a major problem, as it were, is not currently at issue in Finland. Perhaps it is this message effect that is of greater importance. Minister Häkkänen said that it is possible to live in a common-law relationship. Well, that is possible, but in situations where you have a surprise pregnancy and you want to have a child, you have to take into account that it is for a young woman or for a young girl that you have a common-law relationship, living in a common-law relationship and taking care of a child is not necessarily a safe option and a good option. All in all, of course, it would be better if children were also given time to adults, to whom I hope this will send the positive message that it will also be possible to prevent teenage pregnancies. But I personally regard it as a bit of a double standard that when we talk about child marriages for 17-year-olds, at the same time, we are not talking about child sex in the open or in the sexual relations of young people, but that it is considered as normal that young people start to have sex with each other long before the age limits. In other words, I do not consider it to be an ideal development, but, in that respect too, a change of attitude would be needed in order to give young people and children a complete peace of mind. Then there has been talk of people from other cultures, immigrants, and indeed, according to Islamic law, marriage is possible when a person has matured. In practice, this means that in many Islamic countries the marriage age may be very low, for example 13 years or 15 years, and even younger in practice these marriages may be entered into. I understand that in all of this legislation: There has also been a desire in the Nordic countries to send out a clear message that this is not acceptable here, and in that sense I appreciate this message and this legislation. However, just as Mr Tanus said, it is problematic that in Islamic law there may be a marriage in front of an imam that is not legally competent in Finland, but the same man may have several wives according to the Islamic legal order, and in the light of Finnish law only one of them is then the legal wife. In the same way, I believe that attention should now be paid to the fact that this does not necessarily eliminate child marriage practices within Islamic culture, that is, it is still possible, in accordance with the sharia law, to have that child wife, even if she is not formalised according to Finnish law, and it may even put her in an even more vulnerable position. All in all, I do think it is important to achieve the objectives set out in this legislation, but at the same time it should be noted that it does not necessarily remove these problems, that this law should be put into effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u139	Mr President! The draft law on the prohibition of underage marriages, which is now in the referral debate, is a matter of principle. When this law enters into force, it will include Finland among those countries that consider marriage to be a legal agreement between adults, that is to say adults, without exception — not even on religious or cultural grounds. There have been relatively few minor marriages in Finland in recent years. This phenomenon is largely related to the fact that the pregnancy that has often been the basis for marriage in past decades is no longer subject to the same social pressure today as it was in the past. More than 40 per cent of all children born in Finland are born out of wedlock, in a cohabiting relationship and in single-parent families. Society has created a safety net for coping, so marriage and through it child support is not necessary for the child or the child’s mother. Also, underage marriages are not allowed on cultural and religious grounds. It is good that Finland, too, takes a clear stance on what is and is not part of the adult, adult world. Child marriage enables underage pregnancy and sexual intercourse, even though our general social attitude sends a message of calming childhood and youth to the joys and sorrows they share. The rights of minors include studies and the acquisition of a profession which may be prevented or at least delayed by marriage and the things it brings with it. Minors are individuals at their stages of intellectual development, but the prohibition of underage marriages by law gives a categorical opportunity to calm down the years before the age of adulthood from a legal agreement such as marriage. It is important that the couple are both in full spiritual understanding of what marriage is all about. In my former life as a secondary school teacher, I was rather saddened to hear from a 14-year-old girl from the Middle East that her biggest dream was to marry as soon as possible and be married — without education and the opportunity to support herself. My estimate at the time was that the background community created pressures on traditional culturally-linked behaviour. Therefore, it is good that Finnish law provides the necessary additional years for the development of independent thinking. The bill also aims to ensure that the age difference between the marriage partners is not disproportionate. In other words, an 18-year-old is mentally closer to an older partner than a 16-year-old. Mr President! In an increasingly internationalized Finland, where immigration will lead to more people from different cultures — even from countries where even marriages as a child are possible — there is a clear message of what we consider to be valuable and important when the law comes into force. Here in Finland, like many other European countries, we want to give children and young people full rights to childhood and youth, to mental and physical development and, above all, to their own free will to enter into or not enter into agreements that are legally relevant.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u140	Mr President! In Finland, a person under 18 years of age is not allowed to drink alcohol or drive a car, cannot take out loans or enter into many other contracts and is not fully responsible for his or her livelihood. Society considers that a person under 18 is not mature to make many choices about his or her own life and does not have all the rights of adults. Marriage is an important legal and cultural agreement, an agreement between people in adult life and a social institution. Marriage is one of life’s important decisions. In today's human rights-based, child rights-oriented thinking, marriage is considered to be an agreement between adults. The UN Human Rights Council has recommended that all countries ban child marriages under the age of 18. In Finland, the age limit for marriage is 18, but with exception, marriage can also be allowed for younger people, and the minimum age has not been defined at all. A total of 126 derogations were granted to minors between 2010 and 2017. The majority of persons with a derogation were 17 years old, but in 2012 the exemption was granted to as young as 15 years old. The majority of children who have been exempted in 2010-2017 are girls. The question is therefore highly gendered. The applicant’s spouse is often one to four years older than the applicant. However, the age difference between spouses has been over six years in 18% of cases. In seven cases, both spouses have been minors at the time of granting an exemption. The number of cases in which the applicant or his or her spouse are foreign nationals has been 22 per cent. Mr President! It is good that the possibility of a minor marriage is now being removed from the law, thanks to the Minister. Marriage isn't for kids. It's for adults. It cannot be considered that a minor is mature to give his or her consent to a marriage when he or she is not considered mature to conclude other significant contracts or to assume full responsibility for his or her own life. It is also internationally questionable that Finland, which places emphasis on the rights of the child, has made it possible for minors to marry in its own country, even though Finland acts globally against them and to reduce them. Globally, child marriages are often forced marriages, leading to child abuse, the interruption of girls’ education, teenage pregnancies and increased infant and maternity mortality, high birth rates and thus to a continuous circle of poverty. Mr President! For example, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Germany allow marriage without exceptions only for over 18-year-olds. Thus, Finland will move to its right and own reference group when it stops the possibility of child marriages completely without exceptions. Although a minor cannot be considered mature to decide whether to marry, marriages entered into with an exception are not necessarily forced marriages, but they may sometimes also be in Finland. There are probably also some reluctantly married girls in Finland. Thus, prohibiting underage marriages in all ways also prevents forced marriages of children. In the case of children, it may also be very difficult to distinguish between when it is actually a matter of the child’s own will and when it is a matter of exerting pressure on parents or the environment. Mr President! In the past, it has been justified by religious and cultural grounds and convictions to retain an exemption allowing child marriages. I do not believe that these are acceptable grounds for underage marriages, because this criterion opens up a sloping surface for the trampling of children's rights and undermines human rights-based legislation anyway. Child marriages are also justified by the pregnancy of minors. The reason is today lame, because the rights of the child who is born can be safeguarded and the paternity recognised also outside of marriage and the marriage can always take place after the birth of the child when the mother reaches the adult age. Mr President! This legislative change does not change the regulation of children's marriages abroad, where a case-by-case judgement has been used today that they are permitted or are not allowed and legalised in Finland. I think it is very important that this line strengthens the critical attitude towards when underage marriages entered into abroad can be legalised in Finland. The line must be strict so that this law is not circumvented and go abroad to marry girls. In the past, there has also been talk of religious, non-legal marriages, and in order to prevent them there is certainly a need for attitude education, cultural change and work on it. But, Mr President, this is also a matter of principle, and legislation always sends out a message, and I see that this is a welcome change of law and sends out a message that marriage is not for children, and I hope that this will also affect the cultural and religious attitudes that may sustain child marriages and attitudes that favour them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u141	Mr President! Culture, tradition or religion must not jeopardise the right of children to have children. The position of the girls has come up here. This is precisely what protects more on the girls' side, although of course there are some cases where both sides have been underage. Society has changed, it is noted here. It is possible to live in a cohabiting relationship and then get married as an adult if that is what you want. Now, with this legislation, this escalating surface is being taken away, and this is the right step. With regard to forced marriages, too, and in particular what the previous representative has said here, I would like to point out that there is a strict line that forced marriages or marriages abroad should not be accepted, at least on light grounds, if there are minors. And then a tight line to this when we go abroad to take especially girls to be mutilated. This is some incredible thing to do, to lure children abroad, as it were, on holiday, and then there's the shock that's ruining your whole life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u142	Mr President! This bill, which prohibits children’s marriages, is in the right direction. In the current situation, these derogations, which have allowed marriages of under 18 years of age, have been trending towards a significant reduction in the number of permits granted in the long term. That's good. However, there are currently 10 to 30 annual applications, most of which have led to a positive decision. The granting of this derogation has always required particular reasons, and the most common reasons for marriages under the age of 18 have been pregnancy, religious convictions and cultural reasons. The Greens warmly support this government proposal. In our own political programme, there is a desire and an objective to criminalise all child marriages. The Women's Network in Parliament and the Federation of Women's Organisations have long been working to ban underage marriages, and the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women also aims to do the same. The Ombudsman for Children has stated that underage marriages may involve activities considered to be child trafficking, and from this point of view, too, the government's proposal is excellent. In recent years, the possibility for a minor to obtain an exemption for his or her marriage has also been waived in Sweden, Denmark and Norway. However, child marriages are still a major problem, especially in developing countries, and the position of vulnerable people in humanitarian crises is becoming increasingly fragile. In the midst of crises, sexual violence is increasing and child marriages are also increasing. It has now also been said that perhaps as a result of climate change, the number of child marriages in developing and developing countries has increased. At the same time as the government has cut back on development cooperation funds, this contradiction exists and the aim must be to increase the spending limits to 0.7% of GDP. Mr President! This is not about forced marriages, it is about child marriages, but forced marriages are another matter that would then be the next step to criminalise. I therefore hope that the government will further promote this, hopefully even in this context, if possible. Now the government's proposal does not take a stand on forced marriages, but it is known that forced marriages in Finland also occur, but they are only poorly identified. Many cases are not reported at all, and these cases do not end up in the criminal process very much. Thus, legislation on trafficking in human beings and coercive measures are currently poorly suited to identifying situations, such as situations where a child is sent to the country of origin to marry. Mr President! However, this bill is very much to be welcomed. I hope that in its follow-up, the government and the Minister will also take into account and ban those forms of marriage that are still not criminalised, such as forced marriages.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u143	The window of time for this debate is about to end, but I will give the floor to the representatives of Laukkanen and Pauli Kiuru, and see how far we are at that point in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u144	Mr President! It is very important that society and Parliament monitor the development of society and also that the law on marriage is kept under review from time to time that it is in line with the development that society is otherwise undergoing. It should not mean, however, that the traditional meaning and value of marriage itself as a social institution is in some way the object of changing or even reducing its value and importance. Perhaps one of the main points of this amendment is the desire to create a framework for a good marriage and the conditions under which no one has to enter into marriage under pressure for any reason, but that the marriage itself should be seen as a meaningful and important event. I wonder if this performance will be good or bad at the end of the day. I am a little concerned and interested in the committee's report and what experts are being consulted. There are certainly good things here, but this is such a deep and varied issue that I do not think this is just a matter where forced marriages by foreigners are the greatest threat that is being rejected here. There are other nuances and perspectives. But, as I said, it is important that the marriage law is looked at and considered whether it corresponds to the social situation, and I will wait for the decision of the committee before my final decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u145	Mr President! A little bit of the main topic for the side path: Mr Halmemenpää raised the issue of development cooperation money, and indeed, we have had to reduce it somewhat in recent years, but a small correction has already been made. Women, children, reproductive health are at the forefront of our development cooperation, and that is the way it should be. Targets have been more focused in order to make the aid as effective as possible, and the Minister for Development, Estonia, has continued to do a good job here. I would also expect responsibility from development partners when it comes to marriages, the status or reproduction of children. The President of Tanzania, for example, said about a month ago that women in the country must go into labor because five children per woman are not enough and more Tanzanians are needed. At the same time, Finland provides development aid to the country. Senegal’s population in 1970 was 4 million, and it happened that Finland’s population also amounted to 4 million in 1970. The difference is that in 2100 Finland’s population will be between 5.5 million and 6 million, to the Senegalese population of 70 million. Against this background, no development aid will be sufficient. Africa's resources and food production will not work unless these countries and governments also take responsibility for their own people and their future. In that respect, I hope that our development aid will at least take into account, in a rewarding way, those countries that are better acquainted with this responsibility, and then perhaps we will give a little less support to those who do not really take responsibility for themselves. But I still want to thank you, Minister. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. With these things, Finland is indeed in the right reference group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u146	Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u147	Mr President! Thank you again for the good questions and comments. Indeed, the reason for this legislative drafting is that when I started as a minister a year and a half ago, I began to consider why we have such a right, whether this is like a remnant that is not actually being used. But it is actually used, those permits are granted. And frankly, at least I draw the conclusion that I cannot be entirely sure that there are some religious or cultural or other grounds which, in my opinion, do not form part of the Finnish legal system so clearly. That is why I started drafting the law, and it was found that there is actually a possibility that this exemption procedure will also allow some kind of pressure to be exerted. This derogation procedure should therefore be abolished in Finland as a whole. As far as the issue of foreign marriages is concerned, this bill does not bring a clear change, because I would not have had time to bring this bill either, because it would have required longer preparation. But such an effect is that if you now get married abroad even if you are a minor and an adult, this increases the age limit threshold, when Finland considers that a marriage can be recognised. So now this is one of the general principles of the legal order that only such marriages are accepted in Finland. So now, if a person between the ages of 15 and 16 who has married abroad, and a man in his 30s, these are very likely to be unacceptable. In fact, they are not accepted today, but they will be adopted even less in the future. So you have to be very close to each other's age and, in a way, a child's advantage on the grounds that you have a 17-year-old and 18-year-old couple living in Afghanistan with a child. In such cases, where it is considered within the framework of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child that it is in the best interests of the child that the family should not be legally dissolved,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u148	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u149	Mr President! Your home is too expensive for too many people at the moment. The price of housing in Finland threatens to become a problem of economic growth and business activity in many areas, especially the largest, growing urban areas. People do not accept jobs if the price of living has become too expensive. That is why we need to take measures on the part of the state, which, in particular, will enable urban regions to achieve an ever better housing policy, so that the price and quality of housing can be improved. In other words, we need to reform the housing stock, respond to the demand for housing, increase the choice of housing and respond to the change in the structure of housing needs. These objectives can be promoted by this reform now prepared by the Ministry of Justice to facilitate the winding-up of housing companies. In practice, defusing new construction means that building companies in growth centres are dismantling or handing over their buildings in need of major renovations and significantly more new homes and other apartments will be built. The location of the plots along good transport connections is essential for the purpose of new construction. This reform is an important housing and urban policy law. The draft law under discussion contains various ways of promoting the demolition of new buildings in housing companies, while at the same time safeguarding the housing of shareholders, the value of housing assets and the status of the company and the creditors of the shareholders. The bill facilitates the implementation of land use and housing policies, in particular in developing urban areas. For example, the objective of the Helsinki Housing Strategy is that 40 per cent of housing construction is in-fill. More than 40 per cent of Finland’s national wealth is also in residential buildings and their properties. Half the apartments in the whole country are in housing companies. About 30 per cent of housing companies' dwellings are again in the capital region and one quarter in other cities with over 100,000 inhabitants. Population projections, including conservative ones, indicate that the population of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and the Oulu Region will grow by around 20% and that other growth areas will grow by between 10% and 16% by 2040. At the same time, the annual repair needs of old housing companies are billions. Mr President! This proposal is therefore a very important reform of housing and urban policy. There are opportunities for a completely new kind of regional construction in which the use of land in growing areas can be significantly improved and at the same time the availability of housing and other apartments in the area can be improved. It is clear that housing companies also need information, operating models and cooperation, especially with municipalities, builders and financiers. In view of the generalisation of demolition and other infill, it is important that the requirements of municipalities in terms of planning, land use fees, car location and other requirements also take into account the realistic possibilities and predictability of housing companies considering infill, taking into account the long duration of these new construction projects. In order to succeed in the amendment of the law on demolition, it is essential that social objectives be accompanied by the needs and legitimate expectations of the shareholders of the housing company in relation to the protection of property and housing security. These claims will be fulfilled in this bill. Mr President! The purpose of the proposal is to make construction more flexible, especially in growth centres. The fact is that people are looking for cities. Nearly 80 per cent of people live in cities in Finland too. We need new ways of creating more attractive living environments in cities. We must ensure that the regulation of construction is at the same time fair and accessible. Furthermore, the development of growth centres is not excluded from rural areas or smaller municipalities. The whole of transport connections, planning and housing construction must be examined both regionally and nationally, particularly through people’s comfort, economic growth and employment. With this proposal, therefore, we are trying to provide more ways of facilitating in-service construction. I believe that this would be particularly important to facilitate housing in growing cities. Mr President! I would also like to thank the representative. The winter road from a worthy initiative in connection with the launch of the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u150	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Talvitie, for the activity and the Minister for the Government's proposal on forwarding and initiative in this regard, I think this was also in the Government Programme. Of course, in this context, megatrends have an impact, and it is very difficult to influence them with individual decisions. People run into cities, we can't really do anything about it, but we can do that for us to react in the right way. Making it easier to dismantle and rebuild and build up is the right thing to do. The housing market is not fully healthy in Finland. Just yesterday I read the Rossilahti report on Savonlinna, which says that there are more than 200 municipalities in Finland where arava and ARA-supported rental apartments are more expensive per square metre than those on the free market. It speaks a sad language about the situation in many municipalities. We're not gonna use the apartments. The filling rate that the nose stays on the surface is somewhere around 90 percent, but then when you start going down from it to up to 50 percent that half of the apartments have residents, so such ghost houses are in financial trouble. And when it comes to these arava loans and ARA-supported dwellings, if they go down, no one will benefit: it will not benefit the state, it will not receive interest and the payments will not be made, and people will lose their property. Such dismantling, systematic and consistent, systematic progress is certainly the best way forward with regard to housing policy, and this is now one of the precise ways of doing this as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u151	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Häkkänen, for bringing the third good government proposal here in the Chamber. As we all know, growing urban areas, and in them, particularly affordable housing, will have an impact both on our employment situation and on people's smooth everyday life and on the image of the future. Almost two years ago, we had a referral debate on my bill, which we did together with our colleagues in Oulu, and which specifically concerned this amendment to the housing company law. First of all, I would also like to thank all the colleagues, you 105, who signed the initiative, and when a couple of years ago the bill received the number 105/2016 and thus it has also been easy to remember, I thought that it might have some chance to make a special contribution to making progress. Of course, the bill is also based on the Government Programme, where one entry is to streamline the decision-making of housing companies. Indeed, this bill on the amendment of the Housing Company Act is based on the need to enable and clarify the smoother decision-making of housing companies and, when implemented, to reform our old housing portfolio to better reflect issues that are relevant to people with reduced mobility, senior citizens and families with children, such as accessibility, and, at the same time, to accelerate the development of one of our major national assets, i.e. the building stock. For my part, this matter was met when I was the chairman of the City Council of Oulu between 11 and 12 C.E. When we specifically promoted the development of the property stock both in the city centre and outside the city centre, we faced very different needs, many of which are crystallized by this need to change the housing company law. So what had become of these projects and has become a problem at the moment when we have failed to bring the law into force? The fact that the Housing Company Act requires the consent of each shareholder, in addition to the unanimous general meeting, to dissolve the company. The dismantling of the company has often taken place in recent decades, and in the coming decades it will be the case when it is not economically sensible to repair the old building stock, or in fact the only option is to build a new or dismantle a part or sell this building right. How big is it? Our housing stock is therefore made up of more than one million, 1.3 million, buildings and nearly 3 million, 2.9 million, dwellings, and 40 per cent of the dwellings are in housing companies. In that sense, this significant share of Finnish dwellings is located in buildings formed by the housing company, and of course decision-making is then regulated by the Housing Company Act. What, then, would change in this government proposal? According to the Board of Directors’ proposal, the General Meeting could therefore decide by four-fifths qualified majority on such winding-up and new building, in which the principle of equality of shareholders is implemented and the rights and obligations of the share-producing housing company and other rights and obligations of the shares in the company are not changed. In due course, our legislative initiative began by presenting nine tenths of the majority, and in that sense the proposal under the direction of the Minister for Justice, which, of course, is also based on the results of these studies and studies carried out by VTT, and the working group of experts, which put forward a proposal for four fifths last spring, is even a little bolder, and that is a good thing. In addition, the Government's proposal proposes provisions on the plan for such decision-making and the opinion of an independent expert on it, and on the keeping and transmission of them to shareholders and creditors before the general meeting. Finally, we have already stated in our legislative initiative that it is important to take care of and assume responsibility for the legal protection of each shareholder. It is therefore proposed that the right to claim the redemption of its shares at fair prices within the time limit of the decision of the general meeting should be the primary remedy for the shareholder opposing the winding-up and the new building. Thank you again to all colleagues and under the direction of the Minister for Justice for the legislative preparation of the Ministry of Justice. Now that this is before the Committee on the Environment in the next few weeks, and I hope that I will also be able to be an alternate there myself, I have already discussed with President Hassi that the tasks will allow for as fast a timetable as possible, because there is also broad support for the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and then it would be possible for the law to enter into force on 1 January 2019, as the government's proposal is proposed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u152	Mr President! This bill is in such a way well timed that this is, could say, this kind of preparation law for what is coming. So, especially now in the capital region, we have a huge number of houses built in the 1960s that are coming to the end of their life cycle. Some of them have been well managed, and they still have a lot of years left to live, and some of them have been treated worse, and they are practically in a state of disassembly. Some of them have been built in such a way that, although they have been well treated, they must in any case be dismantled. I would say that this legislative amendment now provides a framework for these legal frameworks and frameworks, the frameworks, being clear and the housing companies will then be able to make these decisions. These existing houses have people's property caught up, so it is probably good news for them too that their property can be preserved in this way through demolition and reconstruction, and even the property acquired, which has also sometimes been thought of as an inheritance for children, is safeguarded here. This bill is a much more significant initiative than the number of Members present in the Chamber could be deduced, but fortunately, quality here will then replace it, because it is rarely seen in such a bill, which, as it were, is as clear as it is in this case. In other words, I would like to thank all those involved for this. Unfortunately, this will not eliminate the need for us to have affordable housing; there will then be a need for other measures. Even the amount of housing that is being built does not currently produce cheap or cheap housing, but every new apartment that is being built in the capital is more expensive than ever, including rental housing, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u153	Mr President! This bill is very much to be welcomed and, of course, this now applies particularly to growth centres where this need for new construction is great. In this context, as a resident of a sparsely populated area, it must be borne in mind that there is a situation in which housing companies no longer have access to loans even for the small renovation construction that would keep the housing in reasonable condition. Some time ago, in connection with municipal mergers, mention was made, among other things, of Nils, which already had a housing company for older people, from which the bank simply stated that the loan would no longer be used for the repair needs there. I must say that these people are quite trapped in their own apartment when the value of their property has virtually collapsed and been lost. But back to this bill. Of course, it is important here that the legal framework has now been brought into these redemption situations and in those situations where the shareholder is indeed opposed to this dismantling or new construction, these remedies have clearly been raised and also these fair price redemptions within the time limit. I believe that this will bring the kind of clarity that will then move things forward in these situations. In these housing companies, not just in these types of situations, but quite often in much smaller repairs and others, it is very easily possible for so-called difficult shareholders to hold back and challenge these issues. In that sense, it is good that the ministry has moved forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u154	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Laukkanen and Mr Essayah and especially to Mr Laukkanen for still painting the overall picture, that we really do have situations in many housing companies to think about what can be done, and this has been a kind of quiet and silent problem because of the fact that the magazine columns of those housing companies that have had problems or disputes have not wanted to make it public, because it certainly would not have contributed to it. I would also like to thank the citizens and the chairmen of the boards of housing companies and the various bodies that have been involved in this matter over the last two or three years, because it has also, in a sense, given the strength to take things forward and talk about them. When a single shareholder has opposed that project — or it has not necessarily even had to be a shareholder — it could have been a succession that has not been able to agree on it — it has, in a way, been opposed to the property of those who are the majority and its security, and then to the property of one of its shareholders or heirs or individual shareholders. These situations have been rather unfortunate. Although most of these apartment buildings and our building stock are, of course, in a growing urban area, I can see that this government proposal to amend the housing company law also promotes and facilitates the individual development of the property stock in smaller municipalities, for example, because it may be an elevator-free house, almost half of which is still ours, and these accessibility issues will also be at stake in the next few years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u155	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u156	Mr President! As we know, major measures have been taken in recent years to balance Finland's central government finances. Expenditure has been cut, it always hurts, and the overall tax rate has also remained relatively high during the current high economic period. At the same time, various tax deductions in the field of income tax have been carried out with a great deal of effort over the last few years. The long - term, almost sacred reduction in interest rates in mortgage loans was addressed years ago, and now it is likely to decline gradually before long to zero. The right to deduct from voluntary contributions has been reduced. The household allowance was first reduced and then increased, but the level of the deduction is still lower than in 2011. Years ago, a tax deduction was abolished for eyeglass purchases, for example. This list of tax deductions that have been cut, removed or equipped with an own contribution over the years could continue. In the name of consistency, i.e. a stronger tax base, it is justified that the remaining fully self-responsible and therefore fully deductible gains in the taxation of earnings should also be reviewed with a critical eye. In my own budget and legislative initiative, I have again proposed that the tax deduction of contributions from social partners should be deducted. This would apply both to contributions from wage earners to ay organisations with 100 euros of ownership and to employers' organisations with 500 euros of ownership. At present, therefore, these membership fees are fully tax deductible. It is quite clear, President, that the social partners, through their historic role and their current job description, are doing important social work. But so do the Red Cross, Save the Children, Unicef, Cancer Association, Refugee Aid, Amnesty, War veterans and so on. However, they are not deductible for tax purposes. No, I am not suggesting that this should be the case. Let me just say that the line is certainly not clear. The own contribution that I propose would therefore retain the basis of the tax deduction and the underlying idea, but would still bring additional tax revenue needed for the state treasury and thus greater consistency to income tax. According to the draft budget for 2019, the current full tax reduction means that the State will lose EUR 205 million in tax revenues. According to the VM, the provision of the responsibility that I propose would generate at least 75 million additional tax revenues for the state, municipalities and the church.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u157	Mr President! The Christian Democrats' own alternative budget has this restriction of the right to tax deduction for the third time, as I recall, during this term of government. In our view, this also includes the fact that the corresponding contributions from employers' organisations would be completely non-taxable. In other words, in a certain way, the idea of the same kind is that, in the case of employee associations' contributions, it would be half of this amount, which is the amount of the membership fee in each movement, but then, in the case of employers' organisations, it would be completely tax-deductible. This is based on the empirical survey that has taken place at that business associations event and which has asked whether this is such an important issue for business associations that this is specifically tax deductible. There has been the feedback that not at all that they should be part of the organization anyway. That is not the reason why we belong to an organisation that is tax deductible. In this sense, the Christian Democrats have been very much in line with this whole period and quite similar arguments that we have some form of ownership in a wide range of personal tax deductions, and that is in a certain way, could you say, healthy in this type of taxation, that we are trying to ensure that taxation is simple and consistent? And in that respect, a very worthy proposal. A little bit of different amounts are moved and a little bit of different logic, but you can say that the thoughts go in the same direction here. If we are also thinking about central government finances, I think it is important to consider what are the incentives the state uses to promote different things in society. In that sense, as we move forward on this list of agendas, there will then be some tax deductions which, for example, the Christian Democrats consider to be more important than this type of tax deduction, which in its entirety would then be financed by the State. Here we believe it is important to have that responsibility as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u158	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Wallin, for this proposal, which gives us the opportunity to have a little discussion on this issue. I am thinking here of the fact that this transfer of income from the state directly to the trade unions is no longer, in my opinion, the time in which we live. For example, if we look at it from the point of view of the principle of fairness and compare it with support for other organisations involved in social work, then we are at a completely different level, in a different world. This in no way meets the principle of equality. This is just a taboo. This must not be discussed without a stamp that you share, you oppose trade union movements. Well, not in that way, but perhaps a little bit of the principle — or not the principle — but this implementation, which, at this time, is a good principle, has come about, that the salaries of the leaders of trade union movements are higher than the salaries of the Prime Minister and these buildings in which they sit are huge monuments. This is a relic of some time, and it's only developed like this. I think it is important that this issue should be discussed openly and that consideration should be given to how other social associations and organisations could then also be involved in such substantial support of hundreds of millions. So thank you for this initiative, which now gives you the opportunity to say and put your head in a wasp nest, as it were. I would be happy to do so, because I would like to see this discussed in greater detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u159	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Wallin, for the good opening of the debate. When there is a time of so-called scarcity in society and a time when there is also a lot of weakening of the various benefits – and that is what we have had to do and also to save on a wide range of things in this period – I feel very responsible that a colleague in this Chamber is taking the initiative, as Mr Laukkanen has said here, to give the opportunity to debate but also to bring responsibility to this Chamber, because it is precisely because when something becomes automation, it is no longer really appreciated, but it simply becomes that the right to deduct tax is regardless of what the amount of the euro is and whether it is large or small and whether it is even reasonable. We have been dealing with many things, such as housing allowance and many others, so that when that benefit becomes automatic, then those sums will also become very high economically for the state as a whole. I think the bill is justified and good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u160	Mr President! In this speech, I would also like to point out that the Christian Democrats in their own alternative budget have also emphasised this, and in this speech too I would like to point out that there is nothing against freedom of organisation. An initiative of this kind is always very sensitive to the view that there is a desire here to attack such a fundamental freedom, which comes from the Constitution, the freedom of organisation. I can tell you from my own point of view that I have been a member of the Economist Union since I was a student. At that time, I joined the Economist Union as a student, and I have considered it important to have the possibility of belonging to a trade union movement. Over the years, there have sometimes been legal advice, various advantages, opportunities, interesting seminars and so on. I have considered this activity to be something to be supported in itself. I would pay the membership fee regardless of whether it becomes a tax deduction or not, because I appreciate the work that is being done in my trade union movement, and in that sense I believe that quite a few Finns have a similar view. As such, the fact that you pay the membership fee of an organisation now tells you, at least, whether you could say, the first positive view of why you want an organisation to exist, why you want to support its work, why you want to see it do important things in society. In that sense, I do not believe that this would make any difference, for example, to the degree of organisation. Perhaps rather it may be that then there would be such transparency and then information to the members about how different things are supported and what types of things you want to be promoting. Among other things, as we approach the spring of the elections, I have observed that various trade union movements have very different ways of supporting, for example, candidates belonging to a trade union organisation in the elections. The Economist Union has at its best offered the possibility of being able to write a few lines of itself in that magazine, and this huge opportunity has been offered to every member of the Economist Union who is nominated for the election, and that is, of course, a passel way when it is the same for everyone. But I have heard that in a few ay movements there is a slight other way of supporting and perhaps in particular the representatives of certain political directions. All in all, however, an initiative which is very much to be welcomed, and I hope that this debate in society will start and that it will not immediately be recognised that there is some form of constitutional freedom in this area and that many of us who are in favour of this abolition of the right to deduct tax are, however, quite clearly of the opinion that these trade union movements have an important role to play in Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u161	Mr President! It is very easy to agree with this analysis. It is not a question of attacking the trade union movement; it is a matter of other things that I will return to in a moment. Of course, I must admit that I do not consider it very likely that this initiative will now go through. I'd be pretty surprised. Perhaps there is a higher probability that Liechtenstein will win the World Cup at some point. But the intention is precisely to stimulate debate, and I quite agree with Mr Laukkanen that any topic of this kind, in which taxpayers' money is used as pawns, should not be taboo, but a common issue. When I took this initiative for the first time in 2013, I learned from a newspaper on the left — perhaps even an editor - in - law or an editorial columnist — that Wallin was trying to undermine social peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u162	Mr President! Indeed, these internal tensions make this issue difficult. I'm gonna take one of these by the side. I have made a budget initiative several times that if a citizen wants to donate funds to development cooperation, he should be allowed to deduct them from taxation to a certain extent. This has never led to anything; it has been considered a bad performance. However, it has not been compared to this issue, to which it would be quite clearly comparable, because we all know that these big NGOs are doing a really important job and that Finns would be happy to give even more money than what goes through the tax money. That is what I wanted to raise to this side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u163	Mr President! When Mrs Wallin told me from her own experience in 2013 that she became a great shocker of social peace, it must now be said that, when the 2015 Helsingin Sanomat did the story and then as a fairly recent chairman, I presented the content of our alternative budget in it, and I also told her that the membership fees of business associations would also be abolished as a whole, then it became a very typical response for the Christian Democrats, that is, it was written that, Mr Essayah, the new President, is now moving in dangerous waters, at least I am resigning from the church.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u164	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u165	Mr President! Indeed, as I promised, there are still points in the order of day that would be happy to see that the right to deduct would not be taken away. Child allowance has been something that the Christian Democrats achieved during the previous term of government. Well, that was about the baby supplemental surgery at the time, wasn't it? It was found that this was unreasonable for families with low and middle incomes, and then such a graduated child allowance was made. In fact, I must say that the history of this is even further away. So during my first parliamentary term 2003-2007, I think I was the chairman of the parliamentary group in 2004 and then we wondered what would be the way in which we in Finnish society could taxly support families with children. We were immediately brought to the idea that there is so-called family taxation in Central Europe. Family taxation is reasonably good for you, but when you start thinking about it, it does quite well favour the kind of families where one person has high incomes and the other person has no income at all, at least if it is carried out classically, or so that the income is distributed between two persons. Then, on the other hand, when you think about a very large number of single-parent families in Finland, in that sense I did not get caught up in the idea but then went on to look for what might be a better way, a better way, and then came the idea that it could be a tax reduction, which could also be carried out independently of the number of guardians of the family. Then I called the Ministry of Finance and asked for a little help with the calculations, because at the time the Parliamentary Information Service did not yet provide such good services to the parliamentary groups, and then, in the midst of all the budgetary rush, a friendly official put it to me. For a long time in that period, for example, it was on the table in the alternative budget of Christian Democrats. Now, in this situation, when the government went and abolished this child allowance, we have considered that during this period of government the only group of people whose taxation has actually tightened is families with children. It seems terribly strange, and I dare even think in such a positive way that it has not even necessarily been intentional that families with children should be disciplined here, because otherwise we have tried not to increase taxation on anyone. This is, of course, a general line that the Christian Democrats also want to support, but this point is that it is precisely in the families with children that this abolition of child allowance is now taking place that we would like to correct. In that sense, we are proposing that this child-retirement last season be continued. It is then stated here that the amount of the deduction is EUR 50 for each dependent minor child and if the taxable person is not subject to the provisions of this law relating to spouses and does not have a spouse abroad, the deduction is granted twice as far as the children of whom he is the sole guardian are concerned. However, the amount of the deduction shall be calculated on the basis of a maximum of four children. It can then be said that when the total amount of the taxable person’s pure earned income and pure capital income exceeds EUR 36000, the amount of the deduction will be reduced by one per cent for the sum of pure earned income and pure capital income exceeding EUR 36000. In other words, in Finnish this means that this still applies to families with low and middle incomes. This is not intended specifically to favour high-income families, but to favour those with low and middle-income incomes. It is only to be hoped that there will still be some understanding for this initiative in the house in order to keep to the government's promise that the taxation of any group of people will not be tightened up during this period of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u166	Mr President! Let us start by saying that the Christian Democrats are now on the right track to propose the return of this child-reduction from 2015 to 2017 for families with children on low and middle incomes, and in fact the Parliament Group of the Finns Party has also taken a legislative initiative with almost the same content this autumn. Mr Essayah already mentioned the child allowance and its history, but let us now repeat that the child allowance was actually introduced at the beginning of 2015 to compensate for the rather drastic child allowance cuts carried out by the Stubbi Government. And last autumn, we remember that the Sipilä Government refused to extend the period of child allowance despite our proposals. Mr President! Families with children need to be listened to, parents need to be supported, and all families and especially children need to be provided with the conditions for a good life, and there is also a need to respond to concerns about the drastic decline in the birth rate of Finns. Unfortunately, poverty in families with children is a reality in Finland. Finns also want much more investment in the well-being of families with children and, in particular, the position of families with children with low incomes to be improved. As Mrs Essayah said earlier, the child allowance was normally EUR 50 per child and guardian per year, up to a certain income limit. The reduction was therefore for parents with low and medium incomes, but the high incomes did not receive this child allowance, and we believe that this practice in 2015-2017 could also continue, although this year, in 2018, the deduction has not been in force. So, like Christian Democrats, we Finns are suggesting that child allowance will be restored at the beginning of next year to the same level as it was in 2017. Moreover, the child allowance would be a very significant hand-out for families: it would allow families with four children to receive up to EUR 400 in pure hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u167	Mr President! In a way, this proposal can be seen as a demonstration of the fight against poverty in families with children. At present, in the capital region, the increase in cost of living is so high that wage developments and the rise in other benefits are no longer in line with the increase in cost of living. There are growing numbers of families with children, single parents, some even children, in the bread lines where I myself am very active — even during the parliamentary term I often share food and talk with these people. Others come there because, although they have two jobs, they have so little income that they are not enough to live, but some of the food must be fetched there. So, against these backgrounds, we would certainly like to see success in this proposal, and that is why we are sticking to it. We also want to show that the Christian Democrats have been a family party for 60 years — not just between elections, but we are a family party for 24/7, and we also want to demonstrate this through our presentations. A reasonably priced residential building is not in sight, not in any growth centre, but every apartment that is built, whether it is housing construction through the MAL agreement or anything else, is more expensive than ever, including rental housing, and this is a problem for us. At the moment, this cooperation with MAL will result in large cities receiving money for their transport solutions, but it will not reduce the prices of dwellings, not for 50 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u168	Mr President! That reminded me of the last moments of Stubb’s reign, that is, the cuts that were made at that time, and I would like to remind you that it was precisely this bringing about a reduction in children that Christian Democrats were required to remain in the government that began to tear at the end of that period so that the door started to run at a rapid pace. In other words, precisely because of the desire to compensate for the cuts that had to be made in the case of forced labour, that they did not hit the most vulnerable families with small and middle-income children, in the sense that, although this was an initiative, as it were, in that economic climate, today we have child poverty and we have families with hard living. Just as Mr Savio put it there, at best this could be up to 400 euros if there are four children in the family, so it must be said that this is really important in the everyday life of the family, in the family purse and in the income that is available there to run the daily life. You just have to hope that we will have a future government that understands that the welfare of the entire society rests on the welfare of families. It is a very Christian-democratic idea that we are in this society exactly as well as we are in that family and in our immediate community. Society’s support, therefore, should focus on the care and educational work of families and thus help the family to cope with their own important role.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u169	Mr President! I am sure we are very much in agreement in this House that this country needs children and child-friendly policies. A situation in which the birth rate is so low and, unfortunately, even worse can not continue for very long. However, I prefer, for example, the systematic continuation of work to reduce early childhood education fees. That way would also guarantee that we would have more and more Finnish children in day care. Unfortunately, according to OECD statistics, Finnish families do not shine in those statistics. On the contrary, we have quite a lot of children outside day care, and unfortunately, it is those families with the biggest and worst problems that often do not take their children to day care, so reducing the fees for day care and especially early childhood education would also bring benefits in this regard. If there are additional resources, then of course child benefits would be badly needed for repair.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u170	Mr President! I am very much in favour of any initiative which reduces the poverty of families with children, because that is a real problem at the moment. I have in my hands the poverty report of the Finnish Network for Combating Poverty and Exclusion for 2018, and it does tell quite a harsh story about the situation of families with children. In other words, according to the statistics for 2016, poverty among families with children affects 10.2 per cent of children under 18, i.e. 110,000 children and young people. The number of children at risk of poverty and exclusion is even higher, i.e. an estimated 15% of children live in households affected by poverty or the risk of exclusion. And as for the child, we all know that parents’ problems with their livelihoods have negative effects on their children’s future. Poverty reduces the child’s potential for a normal life in its growing environment and creates an outsider. The Mannerheim League for Child Welfare has studied that children of poor families are even more bullied at school. This is of course this kind of value and attitude debate, what we should be doing anyway, that why is that, but it's just a fact that these things have an impact. It has a negative impact on the well-being and development of children. But I am not sure whether this is the best way to influence the poverty of families with children, either, but I think it is very valuable that we have this debate here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u171	Mr President! Mr Järvinen also raised an important issue, namely the calculation of early childhood education fees, but I do not see these as mutually exclusive. In fact, when the government presented this cut, the same budget pointed out the fall in early childhood education fees and justified it precisely by the fact that, now that early childhood education contributions are being calculated, the child allowance can then be abolished. But it must be noted that this is not going to be one of the same families, that is, not all of them have children in day care who have the opportunity to receive this child allowance. Therefore, we feel that both of these are important things for you to promote, but we should not think that they are mutually exclusive. In that sense, we continue to support the need to promote both the reduction in early childhood education fees and the return of child benefit. Of course, the fall in early childhood education fees still has its own role to play in reducing this so-called threshold of incentives, and this is also a good thing to bear in mind. In other words, when early childhood education payments are high, it has been statistically shown that the threshold for receiving the work, especially the low - paying job, will increase, because it makes no sense for the income of another income earner to go about the day - care fees. It is good, though, that this has been awakened in Finnish society. The model of encouraging basic security for the Christian Democrats has also taken this issue into account, i.e. it has a very clear incentive effect, or it is an incentive if it is the case that day care payments run high, and that is why we must continue to reduce them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u172	Mr President! I would like to pick up briefly on Mr Essayah's speech. Indeed, Mr Järvinen said that a better way would be to reduce early childhood education fees. It is also a good way, it has been done on several occasions during this term of government. Now, especially for low income families with children, these early childhood education fees are already very low. After all, the lowest incomes are not collected at all. It must also be remembered that if this reduction in early childhood education contributions, which has already been made, were to continue, it would only affect families with children under school age. On the other hand, the introduction of child allowance would also make it easier for families with school-age children. They would at least get a child allowance for all children, so I think that both these different ways of making it easier for families with children are absolutely in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u173	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u174	Mr President! This is an important initiative to promote equality. In the formation of a child’s identity, language is an important element. Language is also used to socialise with culture and the community. Each language also develops and changes all the time. These are the reasons why this bill has been taken. Children hearing deaf parents, i.e. so-called CODA children, should be entitled to the teaching of their second mother tongue, i.e. sign language. Mr President! The Sign Language Act entered into force on 1 May 2015. The purpose of the law is to promote the linguistic rights of persons using sign language. According to the Act on Sign Language, the person using the sign language is the person whose own language is the sign language. The law also includes people with normal hearing, for a large proportion of deaf people who use sign language have hearing children. According to a government bill on the law, sign language must also be considered the mother tongue of a person when at least one of his or her parents or one of his or her older siblings is in sign language and the sign language has been used with the child since his or her birth. The Sign Language Act also recognises and recognises the sign language and the cultural identity of the children of CODA. It also imposes an obligation on the authorities to promote the use of sign language in their own language and to obtain information in their own language. In accordance with the Basic Education Act, the language of instruction is usually Finnish or Swedish. It is also possible for a child with a mother tongue other than Finnish or Swedish to receive education from his or her mother tongue with the help of separate state funding granted by the Ministry of Education and Culture. However, this right did not apply to sign language children whose language of instruction is not the sign language. Schools have the opportunity to organise education for students of CODA also in sign language, but there is no obligation to do so and there is no funding from the state. Currently, education is available very randomly in some municipalities but it is not a uniform way everywhere. The possibility for CODA students to receive education in sign language can be strengthened by providing the basic education law with an obligation to provide sign language education as a mother tongue education based on the student's decision. This right would apply to those in sign language whose sign language is not a language of instruction, i.e. those who hear at least one parent is deaf, deaf - blind or deaf using sign language. The change would place the native language of sign language on a more equal footing with other language of minority origin. Mr President! At the time of the drafting of the Basic Education Act in 1998, the linguistic and cultural awareness of those using sign language was weaker than at present and their needs as bilingual and cultural were not widely identified. Their right to mother tongue education was largely ignored when considering sign language teaching, and the legal background for the organisation of education was inadequate. Furthermore, due to the situation prevailing during the period of the Basic Education Act, sign languages have not been included in the provision of state aid for the teaching of foreign-language native languages, as sign language was thought to be used only for the teaching of deaf people. In the basis of the national curriculum for basic education, the status of sign-language hearing pupils has been identified. In the teaching of sign-language speakers, the specific objective is to strengthen the student's sign-language identity and awareness of their own culture and sign-language community. The education uses sign language communities and media. However, there have been significant shortcomings in the practical organisation of education for hearing pupils using sign language. Mr President! In 2014, the Finnish National Board of Education survey found that it was difficult to assess the number of CODA pupils in Finnish schools. Among other things, the answers received confused them with those wearing signs because of hearing loss. The phenomenon is apparently not even properly identified in municipalities, which then makes evaluation difficult. Since the number of deaf people using sign language is estimated to be at least 4,000 in our country, the number of CODA children — that is, about 40 hearing students using sign language — obtained from the school's high-level e-mail survey cannot really be considered reliable in relation to this size and age structure of the deaf community. It would therefore require further clarifications before it can be validly assessed how much this amendment would cost. Finally, Mr President, by increasing the teaching of sign language, it is possible to strengthen the knowledge and understanding of the mother tongue of hearing pupils using sign language and to support their bilingual identity. The proposed change would place CODA pupils in a more equal position with other pupils using minority language as their mother tongue. That is why this draft law proposes to amend the Basic Education Act, to amend Article 12(2) thereof, and to amend Article 12 thereof. A new Article 3 would be added as follows: ‘The mother’s language can also be used to In the mother tongue, sign language is taught in the mother tongue based on the choice of guardian.’ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u175	Mr President! When I was allowed to be on the Administrative Committee, we looked at a study there on the importance of mother tongue for children in a foreign-language environment, and according to that study, the tracks continue up to the third and fourth generations. Even in the third and fourth generations, children who have had the opportunity to learn their own mother tongue, their parents, their families, have much better opportunities to survive life, to manage their own daily lives and also to adapt to society. In other words, awareness of one’s own culture, roots, background, language and the appreciation of all of them together improves the child’s ability and ability to cope with one’s own life. When we know that listening children in sign language can have very special problems with their own family in this life, I warmly support the bill to teach them in sign language as a native language, based on the decision of the guardian.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u176	Mr President! During this process, when I have made this bill and clarified and discussed with these families with deaf parents hearing children, and then also discussed with the municipal authorities, I have been a little confused about the attitude to this issue because I have been told, among other things, why teach a hearer sign language, that what is the point of it, because the mother tongue of its child is Finnish, and he does not need sign language because he knows Finnish. This has somehow been underestimating or nullifying those families, since sign language, however, is the language of that family. Then I have also heard it said that the child will learn sign language there in his own home, but it is then an understatement of the language, because sign language is a constantly evolving language and must also be carried forward as grammatically, and without proper instruction from his own language, one cannot develop the language and the language does not evolve. In that sense, this is an important issue of equality and equality, that we should enable deaf parents to have the right to that second language as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u177	Mr President! The language is certainly a strong part of identity for all of us, and in that sense one might think that this bill has very similar fundamental elements to safeguard rights. Today there are also many so - called signposts used in schools, such as children with various learning difficulties, whose education is supported by signposts. I think it is, and whether it is part of the educational program or whether it is the awareness of teachers, that most of the lower classes learn some signs, all children learn some basic signs. In my opinion, that is an extremely fine thing. In the case of my own children, I have noticed when they go to school that both have such courses or periods of instruction, which have then gone through some of those basic signs. In my opinion, this is a good indication of the way in which the threshold is lowered also for the use of signs. Today, at the meeting of the European People's Party at the Exhibition Centre, the first deaf meppi ever in the European Parliament, the Hungarian Ádám Kósa, with whom it was a pleasure to work when I was in the European Parliament. One can say that if one person at European level has been able to increase accessibility and bring the rights of sign-language speakers out on a broad front, he will by his own example. He has studied as a lawyer in Hungary and, indeed, in his own political career, he has focused on taking forward the rights and accessibility of the deaf, but he has also taken it upon himself to promote the rights of other people with disabilities. I have to say that seeing people of this type in high political places when they use signposts when it is their native language: I believe that it is also of great encouragement to many who follow political events and the like, for example, through the news.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u178	Mr President! It is certainly a good thing that we have examples at a high level of both sign language and other minority groups in order to increase our understanding. The example of Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen was also an illustration of how a hearing sign-language child can experience the same anxiety as a child in a foreign-language country, for example, whose mother tongue is someone else. We have worked hard here in Finland over the years to teach Finnish to Finnish children in Sweden, for example, despite the fact that these Finnish children also speak Swedish very well. This is just the same thing, which should also be understood in the case of hearing children, but in the case of sign-language children. Why don't we give them the same benefits?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u179	Mr President! To the good speech of Mrs Essayah, I would like to add that in some municipalities this matter has been handled terribly well — in other words, sign language teaching is perfectly possible for children of CODA — but in most of Finland this is not the case. When questions were asked to school managers and principals, the difficulty of this matter and the phenomenon arose. They did not even recognize what these children are, whether these are, and why they should be taught separately. The difficulty of this phenomenon also arose when I first asked the Minister for Education and the Ministry of Education about this matter in writing. In that reply it became clear that not even there was an identification of this issue. They simply did not answer my question about the children of CODA, but in their answer they explained how well the teaching of the sign language of deaf children has been arranged in Finland. It's just a picture of this situation. If the ministry does not recognize such a phenomenon, how could there be information in the municipalities or schools about this phenomenon, however, which is important to me in terms of equality?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u180	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. - And I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, the President's voice is running out, but I'm trying to get through this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u181	Mr President! Sympathy can be given here, unfortunately it is difficult to replace that voice with another. We were just talking here about child poverty and its increase. Unfortunately, our pensioners are another group where poverty has increased. During this term of government, 24,000 pensioners have fallen below the poverty line, and at present there are nearly 200,000 of these pensioners below the poverty line, more specifically 190,000. Of course, there are many reasons why this has happened, but during this period there have been painful cuts and freezes in the National Pensions Index, increased health care fees and reimbursements of medical expenses, reduced travel allowances, and all of these combined have meant to pensioners that more and more people have actually fallen below the poverty line and are having trouble coping with everyday life. Many people have to wonder whether to get food or medicine. Poverty among pensioners is an alarming disadvantage in the Finnish welfare society, and it is worth remembering that women over 75 years of age who have accumulated a very non-existent earnings-related pension are particularly vulnerable and then those who are dependent on disability pensions, more of whom are men. That is why the Green Parliamentary Group proposes a fair level increase in the guarantee pension to combat inequality and pensioner poverty. Let me take a few examples: during the last period, the guarantee pension was increased, as it were during the economic downturn, to EUR 59. In this period, when we have already enjoyed economic growth, the guarantee pension has been increased in the coming year, including only EUR 38 for next year, and that is simply not enough. Instead of the EUR 9 increase proposed by the government, we Greens are proposing an increase of EUR 50, which would already be relevant in the pensioner's bag.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u182	Mr President! This bill is to be welcomed because, as I mentioned earlier in the debate on poverty in families with children, this week I got into the hands of the Poverty Watchman 2018 of the Finnish Network against Poverty and Exclusion, and it also talks about the poverty of pensioners. In 2010, Finland committed itself to reducing the number of people living in poverty and social exclusion by 150,000 by 2020, and now it seems quite clear that this objective will not be achieved. Poverty has decreased only slightly in Finland in the 2010s, and the livelihoods of the low-income population – i.e. I am also talking here about the livelihood of pensioners who are small retired – have weakened especially the cuts and freezes of basic security benefits. The changes made to social benefits during the period 2012-2015 were favourable to low incomes. On the other hand, changes since 2015 have weakened the position of the low-income. So this information is from this poverty watcher, the poverty report. The purchasing power of basic security benefits is lagging behind overall cost developments and will also deteriorate in the coming years if the cuts made are not compensated and the freezing of the indexes affecting benefits is cancelled. In addition to pensions, the livelihoods of pensioners have been hampered by service charges, caps on payments and higher housing costs. In addition to index cuts and freezes, increases in service charges and reductions in Kela's medical and travel allowances have further weakened the situation of pensioners. In other words, many different directions have become issues that undermine the livelihood of pensioners. In a civilised society, I think that pensioner poverty should be reduced by various means, and Mr Järvinen's bill is one way of doing this among many things. It is a step in the right direction, but of course there should also be adjustments to these other issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u183	Mr President! As Mr Järvinen and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said earlier, we have pensioner poverty in Finland. We have not been able to correct it, even though it has been known for a long time, but, on the contrary, during this term of government, many cuts have hit the very low incomes and those who are already in a difficult position and, in particular, low income pensioners. For example, index freezes have been such a measure or, for example, increases in customer fees, a rise in the medical ceiling, a rise in the health ceiling, because we know that the lowest income also suffers more. That is why this bill by Mr Järvinen, which is part of the green alternative budget, is extremely important: then this withdrawal of the guarantee pension of EUR 50 is already visible in the purse of a low-income person, and we are also tying Kela's benefits to the index in our own alternative budget, so that we ensure that pensions will not then fall behind in the future. Indeed, as this debate has shown, during this term of government, 24,000 new low-income pensioners have been born, and in fact the government's draft budget for next year will increase by another 5,000. With this level increase in the guarantee pension, we would be able to remove 10,000 people from the low income trap, and that would be an important step forward. However, as we have said in this Chamber before, even though poverty, poverty with children and poverty with pensioners, we often talk and feel that there is such a consensus that something should be done about it, unfortunately these decisions have in practice taken the other way. In order for this common will to genuinely advance, it would be important for us to have clear indicators in the budget book that would be followed up and to pay attention to it, because unfortunately, when these individual decisions are taken, whether they relate to index freezes, whether they relate to increases in the allowance or customer fees for medicines, the overall picture is often forgotten and the impact on certain groups of people disappears, and when these decisions come from many directions, the combined effect is very high. For this reason, too, it is extremely important that this guarantee pension should be increased significantly, because it is precisely the lowest incomes that have often been left without an occupational pension during their career.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u184	Mr President! In their own alternative budget, the Christian Democrats also have a very similar proposal for raising the guarantee pension. Although, as has been pointed out here in the speeches, the government is also raising the guarantee pension, it is precisely this group of people who, as a result of these cuts in the government, have been placed at a disadvantage financially. Index cuts and freezes have affected but then also many other increases in customer fees, travel discounts, self - responsibilities, and increases in medical responsibilities. These have all been those who have happened to this same group of people. Of course, it must be borne in mind that many of the small retired people are often also the kind of people who may then still live in a owner-occupied dwelling, where, for example, the price of electricity and different transmission charges and the corresponding costs of living are also affected. There is also often a situation, as is the case with this proposal, the bill, which says that this is particularly true for women. Many times, for example, these women are still the widowed ones in a family with a higher income. In that sense, you can think about how this group of people can cope in their everyday lives. For example, there have been a number of proposals in this Chamber on the periodicity of these different reimbursements of medicines, and there has been a debate as to whether it would be possible for these responsibilities to be amortised in a slightly different way. I hope that this is the sort of administrative means that could be used to respond to this situation, so that, for example, early in the year, this burden of payment will not become totally excessive for these people. But regardless of the way these various expenses and responsibilities will be amortized, the truth is that there is too little money in the purse. That is why this initiative can definitely be supported, and indeed, as I said, the KD has a similar initiative in its own alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u185	I have the next reply that has been requested here, Mr Essayah, but when he has just spoken, then Mr Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u186	Mr President! Some time ago, we conducted a survey with the Parliamentary Information Service on the impact of the decisions of this government on different groups of people, and the worst part of the survey was that the most purchasing power has been cut from the lowest-income pensioners. As I recall, this government period has cut as much as 2% of their purchasing power, and despite the fact that even minor improvements have been made in some areas, such as the abolition of VAT on low incomes and tax reductions and a slight increase in the guarantee pension, unfortunately the increases are very small compared to, for example, the increases made by the last government. When we talk about pensioner poverty, it is worth remembering that the increase in the guarantee pension is one of the most effective means of targeting improvements to these very low-income ones. When you look at the graphic pattern of who in Finland are the beneficiaries of the guarantee pension, this result is quite interesting. Firstly, the total number of guaranteed pension recipients is approximately 102,000. Approximately half of them are over 60 years old, which means that about half are under 60 years old, i.e. still of working age. The number of beneficiaries under the age of 30 is 13,500, i.e. a total of 13 per cent of the beneficiaries of the guarantee pension. But this graphic presentation is particularly fierce for older pensioners: among the 65-year-olds, women account for almost twice as much as men. When we talk about over 70-year-olds, the proportion of women is already at least three times higher than that of men, the proportion of women over 75-year-olds is probably already four times more than five times more than 80-year-olds, and when we talk about pensioners over 90-year-olds, when you see visually, the proportion of women is almost ten times higher. In other words, especially older, single-lived women need our help. Let them have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u187	Mr President! I now have to point out, quite a technical point, that my speech after Mr Mikkonen did not, for some reason, sign up to the list of speeches here, so I hope that technical expertise will now follow this list. For some reason, it didn't log in at all. On the other hand, I would like to add to these statistics by Mr Järvinen that it is understandable to consider, for example, the pension structure of the past decades, how often it was that, in agriculture, only the owner of the house was the one to whom, at some point on the basis of agricultural income, pension contributions were made, and, most often, those who had perhaps come into the house as very young daughters-in-law were involved in it, working in the house, working full-time, caring for the children and the livestock on that page and yet did not raise their pension income, can say, for decades, before this agricultural pension law, the MYEL Act, was changed. Indeed, this was the situation for a very long time, and this partly explains the agricultural-intensive Finland, which is why we have had a lot of these people, who then have so little pension. On the other hand, even in the past years, there may have been situations where a person was at home caring for children for a longer period of time and then, necessarily, there was little or no career accumulation, or very fragmented, or that the income generated was so small that they could not actually come out of it. [The President knocks ] Moreover, we had a long-standing situation that no pension was collected for under 23 years of age until that legislation was amended. It may have been the case that perhaps a young person was working for 23 years, then perhaps stayed at home and later returned to work, so it could be said that in that early stage, the amount of pension was accrued for the years when it could have accumulated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u188	It has, of course, been logged in here, Mr President, and has just been checked.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u189	Mr President! Indeed, as Mrs Essayah has just said, and Mr Järvinen has also said, it is precisely of these lowest-income pensioners that we have very many women. One of the reasons is that quite a few women have been at home and have not worked and there have been no pension contributions, or indeed in agriculture these women did not have a pension. But in the same way, of course, and certainly for the future, the disability pension may be one that is not a gender issue in the same way, but, unfortunately, there will be more and more men and women, and today there will be a large number of younger people who are going to be on disability pension, and then their pension intake will be extremely low in the future. That is why, because we know that in the future this range of pensioners and their income levels will perhaps be even wider than what we have seen today, we Greens have considered it important that these increases should be made, above all, to the most low-income pensioners. That is why we have been very keen to increase the guarantee pension, because it will then be targeted at those who are most vulnerable. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u190	Mr President! According to the THL survey, women aged 75 living alone are the lowest on income. It's the most vulnerable group at the moment. Then we should remember that pensioner poverty has a very comprehensive impact on the lives and well-being of older people. In my opinion, THL has studied this with merit, and they have found that the low socio-economic status of older people is associated with weaker physical and mental function, higher morbidity and higher mortality. However, according to this study by THL, they do not visit a doctor and do not use services because of the poor financial situation. They would have the most needs, but they do not go to services because of lack of money. The low-income and low-income older people also need home services and home care far more than those on higher incomes, but they feel that they cannot afford these services either because of their own responsibilities. They feel that they do not receive enough services. The need for income was felt by more than one in ten, but most of them felt that they had not received enough or that they had not received it at all. In other words, of course, the first thing to remember about pensioner poverty is that it causes human suffering, but if we think about the extent to which it involves sickness and a faster deterioration of health due to the lack of use of services, it also causes an increase in costs for society over a long period of time. Therefore, it would be worth making sure that none of the pensioners live in inhumane conditions or experience pensioner poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-08-ps-111.u191	Mr President! In time, I was awakened to this problem by a landlady who had just reached retirement age. She said that she had come to her husband’s family’s farm in her time, that she had worked there for decades 24/7 — she was hand-managing a dairy herd — and, no wonder, on the eve of retirement, the husband found a younger wife. They got a divorce. The man took away not only his homesteads but also his entire pension cover, and the woman was left without any protection and security. In the life of this woman and women of this kind, the guarantee pension has brought enormous change and improvement. That is certainly one of the best decisions we made during the second term here in Parliament. But even this guarantee pension will not work unless it is systematically increased, for almost 15% of pensioners still live near the relative poverty line and no more than a fifth on the poverty line above the poverty line. According to the survey, 60% of pensioners aged over 75 belong to a low-income group. That is why both this government and future governments must really remember to use the increase in the guarantee pension as a means of combating pensioners' poverty.
