ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u2	Question Time will be launched by a Socialist Parliamentary Group. Congressman Viitanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u3	Madam President! We are in a situation where the economy is growing, employment is improving, tax revenue is increasing — good. But at the same time, we must note that some people have missed out on this growth. The government has cut child supplements, home care allowance, pensions, unemployment benefit, and yes, these people have noticed in a sad way that every year when they go to the store, the bag of money has been lighter than ever. President! We are in a situation where the centre-driven government is again going to cut down on pe-rus security. And now, Mr Mattila, when the spending limits are coming, is it not time to find the heart and humanity and is it not time for growth to belong to everyone, not just to the rich? My question is: would it be time to cancel future cuts to indices and basic security?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u4	Madam President! First of all, it is not true that the government is cutting everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u7	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u8	Mr President! I think that your answer was not enough for the low-income Finnish person who has been the victim of surgery. The fact has been, Mr Mattila and the government, that every time we talk about unemployed people, students, pensioners or families with children, the government has had enough money to reduce the tax burden on millions of people. This is simply not right. There's a contradiction between what you're doing and what you're saying. There are weekend speeches in the centre calling for rights for pensioners, and vice versa: pensions are being cut by government parties in this Chamber. Mr President! So let me ask you again, Minister Mattila: you have the power to bring the proposal to the spring debate about no further cuts to basic security. The Social Democrats have insisted on this and we continue to insist. Minister Mattila, do you have the courage to bring a proposal to the spending limits panel that basic security is no longer being cut?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u9	Mr President! Now you're using the truth sparingly. As I said earlier, the government has not cut everything. And I also think it is worth it in itself that the economy has grown and employment has improved. What is going on in the spending limits debate, what is the whole package of spending limits — the end of which — is the responsibility of the whole government, and the whole of public finances and central government is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and all parties together. What comes out of the spending limits debate is a government proposal, not a single minister's proposal. [on behalf of the Socialist Group: You are the rapporteur!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u10	Mr President! Minister Mattila, you can't get out of this by going around. Who brings that proposal to the spending limits committee other than the minister responsible? [Department: Right! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u13	The Minister was asked to speak there. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u14	Mr President! First of all, I would like to start by saying that this government policy is only producing results, as Mr Viitanen well said here. The economy is growing, for the second year in a row, strongly. Employment is improving significantly. We are about to reach a 72% employment rate. Tens of thousands of people have been given jobs. Today we have about 70,000 more jobs than a year ago. Long-term unemployment has fallen by tens of thousands, youth unemployment by thousands. This is the best thing we can do in Finland to prevent inequality, poverty. This is the best. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that we are able to break the debt. Even in spite of these wonderful news, we still have not managed to control the government’s debt. Last year, some EUR 3 billion in debt had to be taken up. This is something you should remember. At a good time, debt must be brought to a halt and at a good time, in line with old folk lessons, something should also be left in the sock. And when I listen to what you say,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u15	Madam President! It is quite illustrative that the Minister of Finance here also closed his previous speech. Or when we started here with the opposition to ask about this development of inequality, the representatives of the government party on the right were laughing and talking about whether they were again asking about inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u18	Madam President! The government's economic policy has also worked from the point of view of inequality. In other words, VATT and THL published an interim report on the study during Easter week, which states that the government's efforts to increase employment have reduced economic inequality in such a way that it has compensated for what has unfortunately been done with painful cuts. It is clear that action must be continued. The Juho Saari team did a very good groundwork on what should be done in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u19	Mr President! It's great that the economy is growing. It is great that employment is improving.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u21	Madam President! First of all, there was a question here about basic security, about cutting off basic security. I'm sure you understand that it's not alone under me and my ministry. [Left: Will you bring the performance?]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u24	Mr President! Minister Mattila is right in the sense that the government has not cut everything. But the government has cut significantly both education and social security, including in the form of a freeze on the Kela indexes, and I really hope that Minister Mattila will understand that it is precisely those indices that are at stake in this debate. These cuts in social security have been particularly targeted at low-income pensioners, students and the long-term unemployed who do not benefit from the effects that the Prime Minister has just spoken about because these people have not moved to work. For those who live on basic security, the government has offered nothing other than cuts that destabilise their position.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u25	Mr President! So the fact that employment is improving will help the situation of tens of thousands of people directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u28	Madam President! Mr Orpo, we fully agree that it is important that employment is improved, that the economy is growing. They are all very important for the future of Finnish public finances and society as a whole. But you do not want to understand now that the government of this government, Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Orpo, has been subject to cuts in the basic security of people in the form of indexes and in other ways, which has led to a rise in costs, which has led to the emergence of people in squares and tures against people who halve the drugs because they are unable to buy medicines and food at the same time. This is, Minister Orpo, the truth this government has built for these people, the low-income Finns, the most vulnerable people who cannot find employment or work. That's what you're gonna fix. The last chance for this government to correct these issues, even in part, is what is happening in the spending limits debate. I ask for an answer, Minister Mattila, from you now: are you prepared to correct these indices, to bring in a proposal to cancel the Kela index cuts?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u30	Madam President! Once again, it is not true that the government has cut everything. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u31	Madam President! Field mail: In Oulainen, a man at 78 years of age brought me his list of medicines. It is here: 14 medicines, of which 8 are on break because this man cannot buy them because he has no money. He has to choose between bread and medicine. I am asking you, and I am asking all of us, because we are all, in a way, guilty from one government to another, that the medicines have just been saved: is it not time to say that this limit has now become full and fair in everything, and now, in the spending limits debate, to take this into account in particular? It is very wrong that this person with his list of medicines, which said that he should also be published, approached and told his sad story, as well as the situation of the elderly in general. What are you going to do about the nurse's measurements? In home care, customers increase and nurses decrease. According to the THL study, this is also true. Will you make sure that there are plenty of nurses there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u32	Prime Minister Sipilä wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u33	Madam President! Yes, many families of the unemployed have been in quite a similar situation. Now 85,000 unemployed people have been employed and their situation has improved, more than 30,000 long-term unemployed have been employed and their situation has improved, but it is true that not all of Finland are doing well yet. We have to put the economic base in order so that we can take care of everyone, and in this spending limits debate, this big picture of the economy is now in order, but we have to stick to that spending framework. The small margin we have, our priority, is to further strengthen this employment development and the small margin we have, on the other hand, to use it to improve the situation of the most disadvantaged people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u34	Mr President! The government's cutting policy has been very selective, though. Among other things, you were unable to cut 4 billion in inefficient corporate subsidies, but you were able to cut enormously from education and research. In recent years, we have heard of the plight of our education system as learning gaps are growing and, unfortunately, educational equality is falling apart. The question is whether the government is finally going to reverse the course and invest in competence in the spending limits debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u37	Mr President! Thank you for the question. The representative asked whether the government was going to reverse the course and what, for example, the funding of education would look like. To this end, as early as last year in the mid-term review, the government made important decisions that could also increase the resources available for specific purposes in our education system so that these issues could be addressed, for example, in terms of learning outcomes and their decline. Decisions were made there regarding early childhood education, early childhood education fees were reduced. The funding for equality in comprehensive school was increased, doubled in this year's budget. We also support schools in the weaker regions in the development process so that regional equality can take place. At the moment, we are also preparing as part of this spending limits barrage process measures to ensure the availability of skilled labour in Finland now that growth is taking hold.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u38	Mr President! As far as my field of activity is concerned, for example in the area of study aid, we are currently collecting information specifically on how most effective it can be to remedy this problem, which you have raised, which is that about a quarter of the costs of books are clearly perceived as a problem. Here is one very worthwhile way in which I already have a study report in my own ministry, which is a study material supplement for these secondary students of low-income families. This could lead to a correction of the situation of students in these low-income families in comparison with a completely free second degree. This brings me to tell at least these cost calculations in the next few weeks to Parliament and the whole of Finland, which will certainly be interested in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u39	And then the original author of the question, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u40	Mr President! I'm a little surprised at the Minister's answers. It is certainly the case that the low-income pensioner or the family of children, when they go to the store, knows whether there is more or less money in the money bag, and even now, Minister, these top-notch projects cannot be eaten. It was reported here that pension recipients will be cut by 300 euros a year. It was said here that the Commissioner for Children's Emergency Call that we have more poor children than poor children. This government will increase the taxation of families with children this year. Politics is in this direction, Minister. The question was asked whether humanity could now be won and if you, as Minister, could make a proposal within your competence to cancel future cuts in Kela indexes, that is to say cuts to basic security, Minister. Why don't you even want to think that you're doing this kind of show at the spending limits? Could hope still be alive?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u41	Madam President! I think that you yourself, the representative, answered the impossibility of your question when you raised the issue of pensioners, families with children, many other groups, that is, you did not specify where these indices were from. [Laughter — Intermediate calls from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u42	Next question, Parliament Group of Finns, representative Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u43	Mr President! According to the authorities, as many as 10,000 persons are staying illegally in Finland. For many of them, the background cannot be verified with certainty. The Finnish People's Parliamentary Group has prepared a bill to amend the Aliens Act in order to make detention more effective. According to our bill, persons who have received a decision to convert could in future be detained instead of being allowed to move freely in Finland. Mr President! The Finnish people also have strong support from the people. According to a survey conducted by TNS Gallup, 59% of illegal residents want to be detained immediately after a negative asylum decision. On the other hand, only 18% of respondents would allow them to move freely in our country. Mr Mykkänen, I would like to ask you whether you intend to take concrete measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u46	Mr President! I will, and the whole government will, take concrete measures to remove those who have received a valid negative decision from the country, and this is the work we are working on all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u49	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u50	Mr President! In the view of the Finns of Peru, the detention of illegal residents, but of course also the effective return to the countries of origin raised by Minister Mykkänen, would significantly improve the public's sense of security and, of course, increase confidence in the activities of the authorities. There is an urgent need to improve the implementation of conversions. Until now, individual returns have mainly been made on scheduled flights among tourists, and unfortunately, problems have not always been avoided. Mr President! Obstruction or harassment on return flights should by no means be allowed again. In principle, converts should be returned on charter flights, with a larger number of persons at a time, which would make return flights more efficient. Mr President! Finally, it is time for concrete action. Do you intend to act in the interests of the Finnish people and finally take measures to ensure that persons residing illegally in the country:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u51	Mr President! As regards the immediate large-scale deployment of detention capacity, I would also like to remind the Finns of the fact that, as we currently have reception costs of around EUR 400000 per day, that is, between EUR 40 and EUR 50 per person involved in reception, if we were to introduce large-scale detention in thousands — that is, for all those who have received a negative decision — the cost of this would increase significantly. And, fortunately, when the situation is such that reception services are able to control the situation even for those who have received a negative decision at the moment, then it is worth putting the stakes in the fact that we are able to create procedures for identifying those who are genuinely at risk, for detaining them or, of course, for their immediate conversion when the conditions are met. Yesterday, here in Parliament, a referral debate was held in a good spirit regarding the withdrawal of a residence permit from or from the perpetrators of serious crimes,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u52	Mr President! A naive policy and a cross-border policy has led to the situation that when the police, by means of foreign surveillance, catch a person illegally in the country and tell him that ‘you are in an illegal country’,the person says that ‘then what?’and the police say that ‘we’re not doing so, having a good day’. Do you really have the means to return illegal persons, including those who do not want to go back to their own country?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u55	Mr President! As has been said, detention at the moment on a large scale would mainly increase costs, would not solve the basic problem of illegal return. The number of illegal residents per se is relatively low at the moment because most have legally complained or applied again, but it is, of course, possible that this amount will increase as administrative rights and the system complete the applications. In this respect, I agree that we should be able to organise more systematic returns. This is the subject of ongoing negotiations, in particular with Iraq, where most of the target persons come from, and the work is being done in good agreement with the government and also with the whole of Parliament. This is the rule of law, which operates on the basis of laws, and I also think it is an important value in Finland, but within that framework we must do better than what has been achieved so far in Sweden and Germany, for example. We must have the means by which a person experiencing a personal threat gets asylum here, but if the conditions are not met, it is not appropriate to stay in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u56	Mr President! This week, President Pekka of the Supreme Administrative Court Vihervuori publicly criticizes the amendments to the government's foreign law. Green Mountain said quite frankly that it is problematic if political decision-makers hide behind the back of the court, and the choice of legislators is very important to what happens to people. A lot of changes have been made to the Foreigners' Act over the last couple of years, and Vihervuori supports the idea that the overall impact of these changes will be assessed in terms of legal certainty. I would like to ask the minister concerned: are you going to carry out an overall assessment of the impact of this kind of legislation on the implementation of the human rights and legal protection of asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u57	I think it's Häkkänen's. - Minister Häkkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u58	Mr President! This is at the interface between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. First of all, Finland faces an historic challenge in terms of immigration, which led to changes in the regulation of legal protection. In the first place, eligibility requirements will be raised, controls will be improved, and therefore better regulation will be made on these conditions as to who can act as legal protection providers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u61	Mr President! It is good that the Finns of Peru brought up a new topic, so there is absolutely no impression of the movement of one thing. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u62	Mr President! Last year, the number of asylum seekers, new applicants, was about a tenth of what in 2015. In this respect, the clarification of the criteria for granting asylum has certainly contributed. Of course, there is a similar situation for Europe as a whole. In fact, last year, a significant part was that of submitting re-applications, and this is certainly one of the challenges facing us in the judicial system, how to moderate the cycle in the future, and the work that is being done with the Minister for Justice is being done that it is possible to do so. Representative for Aalto's question, in fact also from this broader study: external evaluations of the whole change in our asylum policy would take a very long time, more than a year, if we were to set up such a wide-ranging project. My approach is that we internally deal with all the shortcomings that come up, where it is at all possible that this could be a broader issue. These issues are also regularly discussed with organisations close to refugee issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u64	Mr President! The original question referred to the interests of Finns, and I think that it is in the interests of Finns that we promote the implementation and humanity of international agreements and their purpose. I do not think it is in the interests of Finns to stir up the spirit that was at stake here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u67	Mr President! To this question by Mr Vanhanen: these negotiations are being held all the time. The challenge is, of course, that Iraq has a lot of its own challenges and has so far been one of the most challenging targets for all European countries, particularly Germany, Belgium, the United Kingdom, where there have been many Iraqis. We've had a lot of trouble together. I have also strongly appealed to the EU immigration commissioners on this issue that if Finland is part of common solutions in Europe, then the EU must also be part of the solution in Iraq. And yes, there is a certain degree of optimism here that, in Iraq, however, the war on ISIS is at a new stage and they themselves understand that they now have a better territorial control over the country, and I believe that certain progress can be made. But a challenging field for sure, I don't make too many promises.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u68	Next question, Mr Vartia, the Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u69	Mr President! The bourgeois government, among the three parties, did not manage to find any savings in corporate subsidies in the last budget debate. This was decided to be resolved by the creation of a parliamentary group on business support, involving three parties that did not want to make cuts. Six other parties were included, business representatives were included to monitor this debate — that is, those to whom subsidies are paid — and decisions would only be taken if all parties wanted to make these cuts. It was clear that this was not going to work, but I can assure you that it was not caught by us Greens that there would be no cuts. Most of our corporate subsidies still do not meet the criterion of good aid as defined in the law. What will you do about this in the future, Mr Sipilä? Do you think it is acceptable that, during your term of government, business subsidies were not cut, but rather increased?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u70	Who's answering? — Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u71	Mr President! This was indeed a task force that I set up, the work was handed over to me. It is a very difficult matter, as we have seen once again. One of the reasons why a broad parliamentary basis was adopted was that I thought it was good for all parties to have the same information about these business subsidies, their setting up and also their elimination, and this information was ensured by the fact that the opposition was also involved. - This is interesting for you. Quite often, the opposition demands that they be involved in the decision-making process, [ Arguments on the opposition]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u72	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Vartia continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u73	Mr President! Was it really the case, Minister of Economic Affairs Lintilä, that the aim of the working group was simply to inform the other parties that cutting them is difficult that the aim was not to cut them? The Finnish economy is doing well at the moment. We may be at a peak in the economic cycle, and yet we will not balance the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u76	Minister Lintilä continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u77	Mr President! Finland is not a freak with these subsidies. These subsidies are available in all countries in Europe. The first question, of course, may also be what is defined as support. I think that quite a few Finns know what is currently defined as support. Of course, the fact that the working group was unable to reach an agreement was largely due to the fact that different parties have different priorities for different types of aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u80	Mr President! Big changes were expected to be made to business subsidies, and public opinion has spoken, as Mr Vartia has now said, and many other Greens suggest that business subsidies can easily be cut by billions. Business subsidies and tax relief exist in order to make Finland competitive. In addition, we must have a tax system that promotes entrepreneurship and keeps rural areas alive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u84	Mr President! This example is a good example of how difficult it is to distinguish between what is business aid or what is an effective part of the corporate tax system, for example. At the moment, it is very important for us to have a predictable environment for our companies. Now, for example, I am referring to this business taxation itself, where the government has been determined to adopt a policy that we have seen as predictable, that we have not tightened the taxation of business, and that is partly the basis for the fact that employment is so strong. As far as business subsidies are concerned, I am aware that this representative, Mr Vartia, is concerned that when the next recession comes, then we will probably have to face the situation again that something needs to be reduced. If we do not get the debt under control by then, then we will be faced with bad decisions again. I think it is a shame that no solutions were found. We should be able to find solutions together in the future that can at the same time reduce emissions and contribute to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u85	Mr President! The Group on Business Support did a careful, good job, wiped out all business subsidies, direct and tax subsidies, and the long-term impact of this work was that we found new, sustainable criteria for assessing business subsidies in the future. It is the greatest achievement of this work. Then the question was whether, along with it, we could bring some sort of business support cut-off package, the scale of which we talked about — 100 or 150, 200 million, something like that — everyone in that working group talked about this. The only thing that happened now is that there was no such agreement. We had different goals in different groups, and such a common view of what was being cut was not found. We also have our own objectives, and I am not going to list them here. But I just wanted to say that this is a pretty difficult sport, and this kind of populism was rampant in this whole work too much: in the billionth grade suddenly could be cut [The President : Question!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u86	Mr President! I very much appreciate Mr Ihalainen and his attitude towards this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u87	Mr President! Although this Group on Business Support did not make any specific proposals, this work has not been wasted. Of course, you cannot be satisfied with the outcome, but not disappointed. The most important thing, of course, is to note that in this kind of corporate support cut, which the government has tried to do a few times, it has not been successful. The problem in the parliamentary working group was mainly the fact that the parties have different objectives. One thing came up in Mr. Vartia's speech. Vartia mentioned that what matters is that if a few factories close, then those people will be employed elsewhere, while other parties, such as the blue ones, have important industrial jobs. And even if this result was not achieved, I would then have asked the Prime Minister in this connection, mainly, to continue this work: should we not be careful, however, that at least new business subsidies would not be made, since even these former ones could not easily be cut off?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u88	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to join in thanking the group for what it has done — a very careful job under the leadership of Mr Pekkarinen, Vice-President. There was a genuine desire to find a solution that would have been acceptable to the whole of Parliament. Mr Pekkarinen presented his own proposal and I could have accepted it, for example, but there was not enough support for it in that group. This only shows how difficult this is for all of us. For example, when Mr Vartia drives a diesel car to Turku, for example, he will receive corporate support all the way,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u89	It is certainly reasonable for Vice-President Pekkarinen to take the floor on request, and when the name has been mentioned, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u90	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank most of the members of that working group. [Laughter] We had a great deal of agreement that various tax subsidies for business should be targeted so that, in future, we will no longer support the use of fossil fuels, but clean energy solutions. We did not quite find the means and ways to do this, but we were not far off. We also had about 100 and 150 million direct cuts on display, not larger than them, but that much. There too, in the end, problems arose that no common note could be found, where the border would break. Mr President! However, when it comes to this, Mr President, may I thank the government for relying on this working group so much that what it did
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u93	And the Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u94	Mr President! Let us humbly accept our thanks. This is a very difficult whole, and I would really like to thank the members of the group and especially the leader of the group for the work you did there. The aim was, therefore, just as Mr Pekkarinen described here, to create a package that would support both renewable energy and industrial renewal, and that we would find between 100 and 150 million in size for this work. But there was no consensus now, apparently not even close to unanimity. I appreciate the ground motion that Mr Pekkarinen made. For example, I would have been able to accept this basic proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u95	All right, this is gonna be a thank-you hour, not a Question Time. We'll continue with the inquiry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u96	Mr President! If you ask a representative of the business community whether Outokumpu, for example, needs this support, the law on limited liability companies alone obliges the employee of Outokumpu to say ‘yes’ because he needs to be a shareholder. They have been mainly listened to by this working group, not by independent researchers, economists, who also recognise the externalities. If Outokumpu gets money, those resources will come from somewhere. Something else will have to be taxed more so that this aid can be paid, [Right : Diesel drivers! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u97	Minister Lintilä responds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u98	Madam President! The task force was mine — I think I am also in charge of it. Firstly, I am a little disappointed if experienced parliamentarians, dedicated parliamentarians, did not
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u103	And one more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u104	Madam President! As has already been said, the very good result was that the criteria were defined, the criteria for future business aid. And one criterion is also international competitiveness. That is the problem of so much business aid being given throughout the world and in Europe. We should have this situation translated into a genuine market economy at European and global level, including energy and similar issues, and we must have the same level of competition. I hope we try to get it. I therefore hope, on the part of the government, that there will be a debate at European level, not to provide operational support, but to support renewal. But that other point of view, I'm going to ask you a question about it. We also have the fact that we are seeking, for example, to reduce the use of coal, even to stop it, and at the same time we are still supporting fossil fuels. We might have to find him.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u105	Mr President! Of course, public spending must always aim at increasing the overall benefit of society. As the Prime Minister said, if companies are supported or supported by industry, good criteria are, among other things, to get from fossil fuels to renewables, and to be able to target support to reform our industries, to reform our businesses towards the future and its challenges. During this period, we will continue to seek solutions that will enable us to increase the share of renewable energy in accordance with our objectives and at the same time reduce Finland's dependence on fossil fuels and reduce CO2 emissions from fossil fuel use,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u106	Next question, Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u107	Mr President! The unemployed have enjoyed the help of the active model for the first three months, and the model has functioned exactly as feared and warned about: there are great differences in the fulfilment of the active model conditions. It suggests that, for example, long distances, the narrowness of the labour market, gender, and the lack of employment services are selective for those unemployed who are being paid for unfair cuts and often for no reason of their own. Ladies and gentlemen, when are you going to give up this completely unsuccessful project?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u108	Madam President! In answer to the latter question, we are not giving it up yet. It's just been laid down, the law. We are following it, as required by Parliament. When you started this question, you said that the model had worked as feared. Yes, there is also this aspect, but the model has worked as the government has planned that it has activated the unemployed. It's not a cutter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u111	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u112	Mr President! Even before approving the active model, Kela estimates that the need for income support will increase and has now confirmed its own assessment. These cuts have not shown any impact on the labour market behaviour of the unemployed; that is a very certain fact. Of Kela’s customers, almost 100,000 people have already been subjected to massive cuts, and it does not include those who receive earnings-related security, they are not involved in these figures at all. Ministers, what other cane line reforms are you preparing in addition to the previous ones? Is the active model number two coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u113	Madam President! The government is not a stick-line operation in this preparation, but that people become active and find a job for themselves and thus a new, better life. That's the government's goal, not cutting and bullying. With regard to this so-called 'active model' for the second or self-seeking model, it is still in the process, that is, we are considering it, because we have certain problems with the one that I am not going to open here because it is in the middle. It's not coming to this row yet. In the case of an active model, the jury shall consider the whole and the complementary measures required by this active model to operate on the TE side and then on the STM side as guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u114	Mr President! The most important thing is that people get a job and, as has already been said here, between 70,000 and 80,000 people have been able to work under this government, and when the unemployed get a full-time job, then the income increases by about EUR 1 000 a month. It is a huge improvement for the individual and the families, so that this active model must also be able to find the solutions that take things forward. It was very gratifying that the MTK announced that it would set up its own employment office offering seasonal jobs in rural areas, so that these jobs could also be found nearby and, at the same time, ease the labour shortage in rural areas. There are also examples of areas where this has been more successful than elsewhere. For example, the employment experiment in Pirkanmaa has worked so well that there is even a municipality such as Punkalaidun, where 84% of the unemployed have been active, in Sastamala 76%.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u115	Madam President! Indeed, very good work has been done in Pirkanmaa, I have visited their model, and good results have been achieved there. In answer to this question, when this experiment is taking place there and on the other hand we are going to have growth service pilots next autumn, these two things will be combined so that the good practices that have now been learned from it will be taken into that growth service pilot and will then be able to move into the future world, the world of growth service. So the answer is this, and I think that this kind of intimidation that these experiments are going to be wasted is certainly not true, but that these experiments can be used in future growth services pilots and growth services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u116	And one more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u117	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Activering i sig är ju en bra sak. Det är bra att man försöker acttvera de arbetssökande, men då ska också resurserna räcka till. Nu visor den Senaste statistiken att fler än älften av de arbetslösa får ett sänkt arbetslöshetsunderstöd. Det betyder att resurserna för att vägleda pineskor in i activerande åtgärder inte är tillräckliga.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u118	Mr President! Yes, it is. There is a need to increase resources, and the government has identified and recognised this and intends to do so. That is why we have asked the regions for a service-requirement questionnaire to tell them what you need, whether you need hands to do it, and we have received these answers. In addition, we will gather together from other ministries this whole, after which the government will make a decision as to what is resourced and how much. So you are on the right track: the government is on top of this and there will be more resources. It's a promise from the government, but it'll be decided in a row.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u119	[Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u120	Mr President! This is a citizens' initiative to stop the necessary aid and support for people with disabilities from being competitive. First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the author of this citizens' initiative, Markku Virunmäki, the Disability Forum, the Advisory Board on housing in the field of mental disabilities, the more than 30 organisations that have been involved and the 72059 citizens who have supported the initiative. Having discussed it several times with the authors of the initiative, I am convinced of the importance of the initiative. After all, the aim of the initiative is to put an end to the competition for the necessary assistance and support for people with disabilities. The citizens' initiative calls for clarification of the Public Procurement Act. Competitive tendering under the Procurement Act should not be applied to the purchase of services for the entire life of people with disabilities, personal assistance and interpretation. It is very important for people with disabilities to have long-term care relationships. Permanent staff have a better ability to interact, communicate and cooperate. A familiar close nurse by the side creates a sense of safety and enables the treatment to be effective. Competition of services for disabled people prevents a smooth, permanent everyday life. It should also be noted that tendering violates the human rights of persons with disabilities and Finland has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and this is contrary to it. The tendering procedure is therefore a key pain in the organisation of services for people with disabilities. It is an indispensable way of providing essential services for the needs of people with disabilities in terms of their lives. The citizens' initiative, not for sale, is a citizens' movement for people with disabilities. Through the initiative, disabled people and their loved ones have brought their experiences of violations of their rights to the attention of all of us. In the current situation, the user of the services is not involved in the tendering procedure. The Procurement Act provides only the local authorities and Kela as subscribers and service providers. The actual user of the service is, as it were, a bystander in decisions concerning himself. In the case of competitive tendering, persons with disabilities and their loved ones also have no legal protection. This cannot be the case in Western rule of law. This will require a change, and we in this Chamber will have the opportunity to make that change. For a disabled person to be sidelined from the decisions of one’s own life causes great powerlessness and often distress. It also eats well-being, often also work and functional ability, both for the disabled themselves and for their loved ones. It is a question of coping with everyday life, both at home, as entrepreneurs and perhaps at work. What we can do in this Chamber is to give these people the authority to decide on matters concerning them. It's their life, isn't it? Permanent relationships are important to all of us. Finland does not sufficiently recognise the crucial importance of permanent and continuity-oriented relationships in life-size services. This is reflected in the competitions for housing services, personal assistance and rehabilitation services. Personnel’s ability to communicate, communicate and interact with people is a key factor in a truly effective service. The ever-changing important relationships created by competitive tendering undermine the quality of life of people with disabilities and their loved ones and also pose a security risk. The tendering procedure also causes significant additional costs when we consider special care. For example, about 25, up to 50 percent, and 30 percent of the people in the autism spectrum have epilepsy as an adjunctive disease. Impairment of the seizure balance of epilepsy, as well as, for example, the cancellation of diabetes treatment or the transfer of a person with speech or mental health challenges to institutional care, not only causes human costs, but also a lot of costs for taxpayers. Poor or variable services can also be used to destroy basic work done in a childhood home and in special care, as well as in school or in cooperation with them, while significant social investments can be made. These costs of special medical care are not reflected at all in the cost of municipal services for the disabled. I hope that the Not for Sale Citizens' Initiative will receive its due value. It's an important message from people with disabilities and their loved ones. The addition of the citizens' initiative to the procurement law should be accepted. It is important to find a way out of the current competitive tendering process in a more sustainable way. Mr President! The key motto of the international and national disability movement is: ‘No, we don’t. “ People with disabilities and their loved ones must be able to take part in decisions relating to their own lives. This must also be done in Finland in accordance with the UN Convention.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u121	Mr President! Everyone must have the right to make their own choices about their own lives. Choices can be small, such as what you wear in the morning, what you eat, or they can involve great choices of life, your body, relationships, and housing, for example. Housing is not just a matter of walls around, but a home is also a feeling, a space of your own, where you can be protected and you can exercise yourself freely. However, many people with disabilities have limited opportunities to decide on their own lives and may also need support to make decisions. However, the use of services is still all too often seen in competitions as a passive target, not an active player. In practice, therefore, services that are essential to the lives of disabled people, even life-long, are being offered without their own influence on this process. Unfortunately, there are also sad examples of housing competitions in this country. Competitive tendering, mainly based on price criteria and without ensuring inclusion, creates unnecessary problems for service users and their loved ones. The quality of the services offered has also become critical, and the turnover of staff and frameworks responsible for services, for example, unnecessarily increases uncertainty in the everyday lives of people with disabilities. Our own home should be a safe haven, and unfortunately this is not always the case. An example of real life, Mr President: An elderly mentally disabled person had lived with his parents until they aged so that he had to move elsewhere. Gradually getting used to it and getting to know him, he was able to move into a secure and reliable community. Just as he had settled into his new home, the service was put out to tender from his pool, and there was another move to completely different, unknown circumstances. When the municipality was asked about the matter, the answer was strike-like recourse to the Procurement Act. There was no mention of human rights, hardly thought of it. There are too many such cases, Mr President. Each situation is individual and needs to be better addressed. Of course, competitions can also produce good results if the skills for competitive tendering are in order, but differences in quality vary greatly from region to region, for example. However, it is now a question of ensuring the right to self-determination and home for all. Unfortunately, the current procurement legislation does not help. This means that the law needs to be changed. More than 70,000 people have now also tabled a change with the citizens' initiative, and we need to respond to concerns here in Parliament in one way or another. Mr President! The citizens' initiative now under discussion is the result of consistent cooperation between organisations with disabilities. It became a visible and audible movement for people with disabilities and their loved ones. It is based on the disproportionate situations experienced by people with disabilities and their loved ones. The initiative also calls on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was ratified in Finland in 16 years, to emphasise the equality and participation of people with disabilities in all decision-making. Under the agreement, for example, a disabled person has the right to choose his/her place of residence and must not be obliged to use a particular housing arrangement. In order to address this issue, the ongoing social and regional reform is also putting particular pressure on us, which is bringing about significant savings obligations and a financial deficit for these services. It is not far-fetched to think that the price criterion will continue to be highlighted in the competition for key services for disabled people, and uncertainty about the quality and availability of services will increase greatly as a result of the reform of social services and regions. So this is what we will do if we do not make a change in this Chamber. [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : RepresentativeLaiho. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u126	Mr President! We are dealing with a Non-For Sale Citizens' Initiative. Indeed, a good name for an initiative, because disability services are not really services for sale, but must be remembered that they are people's services. The citizens' initiative has attracted over 70,000 supporters, and that is a large number. It tells us that we want to take care of everyone in our welfare society, including all the most vulnerable or those with disabilities or weaknesses that hinder their ability to function and who need support for the necessary care and support in everyday life to survive. The citizens' initiative is concerned about competitive services for people with disabilities, which, according to it, leads to exclusion and undermines the well-being of people with disabilities and their loved ones, work and functional capacity, and because of poor competitive behaviour, costs are also suspected. Of course, competitive tendering must not undermine the service or the level of service received by the person. However, the reason for this initiative is clearly the problems encountered in everyday life in organising services for people with disabilities in municipalities. Of course, this must not be the case. In Finland, the ways in which services are organised are very varied and the practices vary. Competitions for transport and housing services, for example, have been made both well and poorly. When tendering services in accordance with the Procurement Act, it is important to carefully define the criteria and requirements that we want and need for a service contract. The definition of the requirements of the competition agreements is burdensome and requires close knowledge and time. In the context of competition for services of relevance to the public, which, indirectly, may undermine the quality of life of a person or undermine the self-determination of a person if dependence on others increases, procurement must be carried out with particular care and consultation with experts and also with organisations in order to achieve the best possible range of services. Competitive tendering is not a bad thing in itself, because it enables us to better manage and evaluate cost developments and find the best service provider in terms of price-quality ratio and, at the same time, to ensure that tax money is used in public administration, so that money is used as economically and rationally as possible, but with the service being secured, and so that we can obtain as much of the services as possible with that money. If the content of the service is poor, then it is not a problem in itself in the Procurement Act; it is a problem of poorly managed tendering and lack of competence in organising the competition. The fact is, however, that housing services, whether it be care housing for people with disabilities or older people, continuity and security are really important and relevant to human well-being, not to mention human factors related to housing and the whole. As far as housing services are concerned, careful consideration must be given to how to ensure continuity in these services. It is not in the interests of a person to have to change his/her place of residence, for example, at the end of the contract period. A service voucher-type model, which is not covered by the Procurement Act, is well suited to the housing services of disabled persons, and even at the moment municipalities can use it. Municipalities can also provide services themselves. For their part, the improvement in the situation of people with disabilities and other groups that need a great deal of services are the changes linked to the reform of social welfare and health care. It will be an opportunity for a personal budget, enabling the person himself to obtain services from where he sees that the services are reasonable to acquire and are best suited to himself. This will increase the individual's autonomy and will also increase subjective freedom. The customer voucher also has the possibility to supplement the services. I would therefore say that the services of those groups that are entitled to a personal budget for social and regional reform are likely to improve substantially more customer-oriented. This major change in the method of organisation is one of the gems of social welfare reform that improves the customer's position in the system. The one who needs help gets to the center, as it should be. When the service can be provided just in time, I believe that we can provide more targeted and individualised services for people. Mr President! The application of the Procurement Act in connection with disability services is demanding and requires good contract competence and accurate information on the content of the services, including careful consultation of customers and organisations. In the area of social and regional renewal, the tendering process can be carried out with better skills and skills, as the regions have wider shoulders and more competence in the organisation of services than the present nearly 300 municipalities, where competitions have been varied and partly unsuccessful. The needs of users of services must always be the starting point when purchases are made. The price must not be trampled at the expense of quality. In the Sote reform, the introduction of a personal budget will strengthen the customer's position through self-determination and choice. The regional reform will also enable closer and better cooperation between disability organisations, municipalities and regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u127	Mr President! The non-for-sale citizens' initiative aims to secure the conditions for a good life for people with disabilities and to halt the harmful development of the competition for disability services. The citizens' initiative, which has been collected by more than 72000 signatories, to put an end to the necessary assistance and competitive tendering for people with disabilities, was handed over to the President of Parliament 7. Adopted by the Commission As a guardian of this initiative, I warmly support the proposal and hope that it will be adopted by Parliament. I remember the day when the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force in summer 2016. It was a cloudy day, but when we met with disability organizations to celebrate in the park of Little Parliament, the sun was shining out of the crack of the clouds. The sun shined on the disabled, promising better: The right to decide who to live with, where to live. Right to good everyday life, opportunity to work, study, hobbies. This citizens' initiative has been taken on behalf of the most vulnerable people with disabilities: those who are in need of full support, care and assistance, those for whom a familiar nurse brings security to the day. Your own safe home is a fundamental right for everyone. Nurses who are familiar with disabled people bring home heat to everyday life. It is not right to arbitrarily tender life-long, vital services. It is not sustainable for everything familiar and safe to change overnight to a new one. Many relatives have written about their concern for a disabled loved one. For the sake of all people with disabilities and their loved ones, this initiative is the most important one. Competitive tendering is very poorly suited to continuous services, services provided from man to man. In accordance with the Act on Procurement, essential services of the entire life of disabled persons are organised through the tendering of services. Competitions have led to a situation where people with disabilities are not involved in the organisation of matters relating to themselves. Regrettably, prices have also overtaken quality in competitive tendering, which has weakened the quality of services. Disability organisations have been working for years to remedy this problem, and now the matter is being brought to Parliament by a citizens' initiative. The continuity and predictability of services are essential prerequisites for building a good life. A disabled person's relationship with his assistant is personal. Trust, sense of security and communication are born with time. Short contracts and their re-competition will break the build-up of the assistant relationship, shock the everyday balance and undermine the well-being of the disabled person. Competitive competition for essential assistance and support for disabled persons is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities emphasises the equality and inclusion of people with disabilities in all decision-making. Services essential to the lives of disabled persons must at last be excluded from the scope of the procurement law. In many countries of the European Union this has already been done. The EU does not require that these services be competitive. One sustainable solution is personal budgeting, which is the most internationally used method of providing essential services for people with disabilities of their lifetime. The tendering process returns strongly in the imagination to the auction age, when the householders provided the municipality with less cost to those who screamed. The last auction was held in 1935. The good life of people with disabilities must not be subordinate to a competitive procedure in which the cheapest offer wins. Our legislation is based on the implementation of fundamental and human rights. As parliamentarians and legislators, it is our duty to ensure that the rights of people with disabilities are respected in our legislation and to make the necessary corrections. The solution is to exclude disability services from the scope of the Procurement Act in accordance with the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u128	Mr President! It is a very good thing that, in the form of a citizens' initiative, this obvious problem in the field has been brought up and raised. Indeed, it is an important issue for many people with severe disabilities, and it is also a matter of human rights. The background to the initiative is, as has already been heard, that it has been observed on the ground how the procurement law adopted in December 2016 has brought up really painful problems, particularly with regard to services for people with disabilities across the country. Disadvantages have been noted, particularly with regard to service housing for people with disabilities and long-term personal assistance, and it has been pointed out that, when the services now being offered by cities are being competitive, the choice is often limited to price and to large service providers. People with disabilities and their loved ones have often been unparticipated in their service decisions. They have had no influence or means of making decisions about themselves. There is also the problem of switching service providers from one season to the next. In order to remedy these shortcomings, this citizens' initiative has emerged, which is intended to exclude the provision of life-long and essential services from the tendering procedure of the municipalities. Instead, the disabled person could choose the services in the area according to his/her situation, for example by means of a personal budget or a customer voucher. Such a procedure would therefore be in line with the system envisaged in the Law on the Freedom of Choice of Societies, i.e. instead of the service organiser bidding for large producers, disabled people themselves would make a choice by means of a personal budget or a customer voucher and thus compete with authorised producers according to their situation. Such a procedure would therefore also be much more in line with the UN CRPD's objective of self-determination for people with disabilities. In this case, a background study has been carried out and attention has been paid to the fact that the procurement law or social services legislation would not prevent the provision of services in accordance with the individual needs of a disabled person and that both the Social Welfare Act and the Disability Services Act would in fact oblige the individual needs to be taken into account and that social welfare legislation would require special attention to be paid to the continuation of services of the age and duration of life. It has been said that the municipality should also hear the customer and, if necessary, his or her loved ones. Indeed, there seems to be some confusion about the legal provisions and their interpretation, and it has also been said that, once legal matters have been clarified, the law would not force the municipalities to compete, as has happened, but it is a question of problems in the application of the law in the municipalities and also in relation to the disability service law and the procurement law. Mr President! When the problem is quite obvious and it is a problem that has been widely tested and humanely important in the field and in the municipalities, it is very good that it has been brought here to Parliament. It is important that the committee should now look carefully at the situation, consult representatives of people with disabilities and other experts, and after this report we will be brought here to the Chamber of Parliament with a valid explanation of what the situation is in general and what the situation really is with regard to the legal provisions and their interpretation, and then bring forward a proposal for the necessary amendments to the legal texts so that the shortcomings behind this good initiative can be eliminated. I'm sure that's what we're ready for.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u129	Mr President! This citizens' initiative seeks to change a very important issue: to put an end to the competition for essential care and housing services for people with disabilities. The objective of the initiative is very much to be welcomed — the call for tender must stop. At the heart of the problem is that the user of services is not involved in the tendering process. People who are the object of the competition cannot decide on their own housing and their own important care relationships. The tendering process forgets or does not recognize the crucial importance of continuing relationships in the life dimension of services when the continuity of services is not ensured. Competitions undermine the right to self-determination of people with disabilities. At its worst, competitive tendering can lead to a loss of functional capacity and may mean a greater need for heavier services. Many people here have already spoken well about the problems of the tendering procedure, which are extensive and are experienced throughout Finland. The EU does not require us to compete in these services, which means that services of a life-long scale for people with disabilities can be organised in a different way than through competition.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u132	Mr President! I am happy that this citizens' initiative on equality and human rights for people with disabilities is on our agenda today. The aim of the initiative is very important, and the practice of undermining the dignity of people with disabilities must stop. Since 2013 all Finnish organisations for the disabled have been working closely together and since 2011 all Finnish organisations for the disabled have been aiming for a change in the law, which excludes the essential services of people with disabilities from the scope of the procurement law, because they have a strong experience that this citizens' initiative is their last means of contributing to the realisation of the rights of people with disabilities when organising the services they need. I hope from my heart for this. No success for the citizens' initiative for sale in the parliamentary process and I will certainly be doing my part in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to do my best to strengthen the self-determination of people with disabilities by means of legislation, which is the aim of this citizens' initiative, as the representative has just said. An important ‘notfor sale’ initiativeis also on the agenda of mental health rehabilitation services,and is hoping for self-satisfaction for those As has been said in previous speeches, in Finland, for people with disabilities, competitions have been purely price competitions for decades, i.e. quality has been given little meaning in these competitions. In the case of competitions for services with disabilities, municipalities typically also enter into very short contracts, which will soon be re-competitive. This, in turn, means that people with disabilities are not entitled to choose their own place of residence. This isn't right. It is not humane, it tramples on human rights and it contradicts the agreement signed by Finland, this UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Personally, I fear that the savings of EUR 3 billion sought by the sitting government for social services will exacerbate the situation of services for people with disabilities. The regions that start with the minus budget will need to save on services and increase customer fees at the same time. In such situations, the weakest people in society often pay. This is an inhumane policy and I think it is necessary that the services of other vulnerable groups should also be taken into account in this House. The speaker who has just spoken was wondering whether this citizens' initiative has sought the right thing to do, whether it is a steak in the purchasing law. Personally, I agree with the previous speaker that this steak is what this citizens' initiative is about and that it is about improving the self-determination of people with disabilities and paying attention to how we Members of Parliament, who are responsible for legislation, can ensure that, for example, savings in future provinces do not further undermine the position of people with disabilities. That is what we have to answer to in committee and in Parliament. I fear that the municipalities that are struggling with their economies, that is to say, the provinces in the future, will also seek savings through future competitions — that is a fact. EU directives do not oblige competitions today either, but we are constantly seeing the wrong kind of competition in Finland, the wrong solutions for people with disabilities. Competitive competition at the expense of the weakest is a political choice that violates citizens' rights and has led to practices that increase nausea, particularly for these vulnerable groups. Business is being done in Finland today at the expense of more vulnerable people, and I hope that with an answer to this citizens' initiative we will be able to curb this type of behaviour, curbing the fact that human dignity is cheap in such a health and care market, as it is now. I sincerely hope that the social reform will also lead to a solution that will not make the situation worse for these people, but rather improve it. [First Vice-President Mr Pekkarinen : I'll admit it...]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u135	And now I give the floor to Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. At that point, at least one of the representatives of almost all the groups has been given the floor. Then I will give the floor to two ministers, followed by a debate. — Now, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u136	Mr President! The aim of the citizens' initiative is to exclude services for the elderly and disabled from the scope of competition law. Currently, in many municipalities and joint municipal authorities, housing services for people with disabilities and the elderly are subject to regular competition. At worst, it means that people have to move out of their own home after another service provider wins the competition. How would you feel if you said you had to move now, because living in another apartment is cheaper? In the case of people with disabilities and memory disorders, this situation is often commonplace, although the consequences are inhumane. The basic safety and quality of life of mentally disabled and mentally ill people are made up of permanent relationships and a familiar and permanent environment. Competition for people's homes and basic care and care is always inhumane. What makes it particularly unethical is that often price is a determining factor, even when quality is secondary. Cheapest bidders often win the bidding just like they used to do at the time of the auction. The incompetence and price-oriented tendering of municipalities and joint municipal boards has recently been exploited by large health companies. It is possible for these large companies to make such a cheap offer that small, private companies in the region will not succeed in this competition. I have heard that many nursing home entrepreneurs have already quit their business after repeatedly losing the bidding of big companies. After all, it is possible for a large firm to make even a loss for some time in order to get competitors out of the area. Unfortunately, there has also been a deterioration in working conditions for nursing workers, which is directly linked to the quality of care and care. Zero-hour contracts have increased and the number of employees in permanent employment has been reduced. In the case of trained workers, unskilled workers have been taken over and nurses in supervisory positions have been stopped. Such activities undermine the quality of treatment. People with memory disorders are also disabled. I'm the Chairman of the Memory Federation myself, and In the Memory Union we are talking about community homes and not, for example, enhanced service housing, because we want to emphasise that people have a right to their own home, not just to an apartment. The choice of community home must primarily consider what kind of home is the best home for a person to live in even when he needs 24-hour care and care. For example, a community home for a memory sick person must include professionals who are familiar with the care and care of people with memory disorders and who are skilled, trained and trained. Many municipalities still think that people with memory disorders can be treated by anyone, and this problem of attitude is often the worst problem. A good example of this attitude is that I have heard a senior official say when discussing the competitive situation of large and small companies, that it is now understandable that the transport of toilet paper by truck will be cheaper than the application for at the store. So he justified the choice of a big care community on such grounds. Living, caring and caring for people should not be determined by the cost of transporting toilet paper. Mr President! I believe that this could best be done in the future if the housing assistant and other such services were to be provided in combination with public services and private services provided through vouchers. The right of self-determination can be supported, and it must be supported, for example, by means of supported decision-making, which I hope will now be formally defined in the future self-determination law. In the case of a person with a memory disorder, it is appropriate to take advantage of, for example, the work of the Memory Federation in selecting a community home. A set of criteria for good care to ensure that the community home has knowledge, skills and skills to deal with memory-diseased people and makes it possible for everyone to have a good life. Finally, Mr President, I should also like to highlight the problem of home care. There are currently two major problems with home care. The resources for home care are insufficient for quality and functional care, but the problem with today's discussion theme is the lack of community homes. In this society we say mantra that the best place for all people, for the elderly, is home, but this is not true. The right place to live is no longer a home but a community home for a memory sick person, especially a single person, who cannot wear a safety bracelet or remember to eat or drink. Unfortunately, these memory sufferers are still being treated at home, and the argument is, for example, the development of technology. Technology can do a lot of good, but there are also limits to living at home. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u137	Mr President! First of all, thank you for this citizens' initiative that it is here in Parliament. When this procurement law was already being prepared at the time of my predecessor, Minister Ihalainen, and at the beginning of my own term, I often had a discussion with the organisations of people with disabilities about what we are discussing today. We have asked the EU's position on this issue on several occasions, and now there has already been a speech in this debate saying that the EU does not deny and the EU does not oblige, but the answers we have received from the Commission are that these services fall within the scope of the Procurement Directive, and the EU Commission has confirmed this on many occasions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u142	As has just been agreed for about 3 minutes, Minister Saarikko still has about 3 minutes. After that, there will be a debate, just as we agreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u143	Mr President! The division of labour within the Government on this topic, which deals with the services and implementation and organisation of housing services for people with disabilities and disadvantaged people in general, is the responsibility of Minister Lindström, but the legitimacy of the services will always come from the law on content and, in this case, from the legislation on services with disabilities. First of all, I would like to say that I really understand why this citizens' initiative has been tabled. On behalf of all our colleagues, I believe and dare to say that I am sure no one will say that it is all right or that it is not a problem that this has been done. This has made me think a lot about this subject, and it has also been well-known in Question Time from time to time that what could be done. But somehow I always come back to the same basic answer that is there something wrong with the procurement law. As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I had the opportunity to assess it and, in fact, the law became better here in Parliament on quality criteria. But in the final analysis, it is a question of law and its application and, in fact, even before that, of identifying the range of means available to municipal decision-makers, hospital districts, special care districts and similar decision-makers, and there is already a choice of means, even before freedom of choice and a personal budget, the possibility of direct procurement, the possibility of service vouchers, and none of the procurement laws prevent competition from being carried out in such a way that one company or one organisation-based or foundation-based operator will not be able to emerge as if it were a registration procedure for a number of successful tenders, from which the user of the services can choose. And that is the basic problem, why this is not being done, and when there are a majority of us decision-makers here too, we have to go to ourselves, whether we have looked at the positions of trust ourselves in order to ensure that these tenders have been carried out in a proper manner or that they could not have been carried out if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u148	When the time exceeds 4 minutes, it can be considered as well as 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u149	Mr President! I feel that for eight years I have been having this conversation about the egg-chicken phenomenon: which is the egg, and which is the chicken. And I must say that if I am tired of it, I understand that the parents of the disabled, the disabled who face these situations every day, every year in life there. Some say it is a procurement law, others say it is a no, it is a question of applying the law, it is a question of incompetence. It is now said that it is not a matter of procurement law or lack of competence, but of amending the Social Welfare Act. But so it is that the bureaucracy strengthens what is rewarded and criticised for, and indeed it has been a cost reduction in recent years which has imposed the decisions that have been taken. And unfortunately, we can now watch here. A major listing of the non-for sale citizens' initiative, which has the experience of ordinary citizens of what this legislation actually means. That is what we need to listen to; that is what we need to learn from.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u150	Mr President! I would like to thank the disability organisations and the individual people who have brought this citizens' initiative before Parliament. We will work on behalf of the Assembly to address the objective of this initiative, to find ways of achieving the objectives that this initiative is looking for. I am very pleased that this puts self-determination, man's own choices, accessibility, the importance of good life at the heart of this. One answer is the Freedom of Choice Act, the personal budget. It has been a good experience and has been hoped for by organisations with disabilities. The law is now before Parliament. I hope that the opposition, instead of trying to knock it down, will you now come along and take this motion through. When the minister is here — thank you for that — the interpreting service is one example of a service in which tendering has not really worked. Communication, access to interpreting services is very important for people with disabilities. As the President-in-Office of Kela, I myself have pointed out, as well as the President-in-Office of Kela, that the services of interpreters will be removed from the competition, they will also be transferred to the freedom of choice. Is the government prepared to add a supplement to the Freedom of Choice Act?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u151	Mr President! The decision-making process and the functioning of the public administration must be consistent with the general sense of law, and this citizens' initiative, which collected 72,000 signatures, tells us that this is not the case in the field of competition for disability services. I am one of those who believe that, in fact, the procurement law, the new procurement law, is not the real problem, but the application of it. In some municipalities or entities where contracts are made, this procurement law is very narrow-minded and does not take advantage of other ways of purchasing services, such as service vouchers or framework competition, from which Minister Saarikko has just opened up. And in certain cases, it would also be possible to obtain a service as a direct purchase. I am glad that the reform of the social economy is indeed an improvement in this respect. It is a good thing that the personal budget is made compulsory and also, through freedom of choice, the customer voucher will help to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u152	Mr President! I am very pleased that we are having this debate on the rights of people with disabilities and on these services, and I am also terribly glad that this citizens' initiative has been tabled here in Parliament because we have a problem. I think we all agree on that. I would also like to thank you for the substanceism shown by Ministers Lindström and Saarikko. I believe that they have answered the questions with great honour in this debate. But what I am disappointed about is that we do not yet have a solution, and I think it would also be good to have the Minister of Local Government in that box at the moment for the very reasons which Mr Saarikko referred to earlier. I am also a municipal decision-maker, but we also know the reality of the elected representatives in the municipalities, and this is where the responsibility of the municipal authorities must also be fulfilled. So I now propose that we focus on providing solutions in this debate, and I hope that the new Disability Services Act will also possibly bring its own solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u153	Mr President! I may be against the other side now, but I would like to give my support to Minister Saariko. It is a pleasure to agree with him on something, and that is the personal budget that this proposal for social protection has.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u158	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Lindström for his very fine suggestion that the expertise and experience of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health can also be used in dealing with this citizens' initiative, and I accept that proposal with gratitude and, for my part, I would like to remind you of this good proposal everywhere. We will be ready to implement this proposal. I firmly believe that. Mr President! This is a proposal that values man for once. This is a serious matter. If any of us should not decide on our own living, then each of us will understand how serious the matter is. There are also many challenges in this regard with regard to the future reform of social security, since this personal budget, especially if it is too small, will lead to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u159	Mr President! With regard to competition in general, it can be said that purchasing organisation competence must be in place when tendering and buying is carried out. Five years before being a member of the parliament, I worked as a night nurse at the work unit for elderly people with memory disorders and mental disabilities, and I can probably relate well to the thoughts and feelings that arise to people who are at risk of moving out or leaving their homes. It's familiar and safe staff, familiar and secure apartment, people around there mean infinitely to people. Everyone should have the opportunity to influence his or her own living and decide where to live. We must give this concern what they have, the promise of service that we are constantly talking about in the middle of the war, and dispel the concern that these people can stay and live in their homes and do not have to go miles away, even hundreds of people, because Finland is a vast country. In that sense, the initiative is in order, very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u160	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! The authors of the initiative are on the right and important agenda. Disabled people must have the same choice of place to live and who to live with and how to live, but this can now be put to the competition. Minister Lindström said that there is no fault in the procurement law, but it still allows this tendering process, and that is why this issue needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u161	Mr President! Minister Lindström, you have just said that disability services are covered by the procurement law. The main problem with this procurement law is precisely that the disabled person is not involved in this competition, but is involved in the municipality and service providers, when we should rather have the procurement law obliging the disabled person to participate in it. Last winter we have had competitions in Helsinki, where the services of people with disabilities have all been competitive. The individual service needs of people with disabilities have not been part of the competitive process, which has led to a significant deterioration in their life situation. That is why we should write out much more strongly that every disabled person should be involved and not only be heard — when it has been stated in the procurement law that a disabled person must be heard, not be involved. This is something that we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health drew attention to when Minister Saarikko was also involved in this process.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u162	Minister Saarikko, you have one minute from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u163	Mr President! Immediately after Mrs Kiljunen's reasoned speech, I wanted to ask for an opportunity to comment on this, because the procedure you described, in which people with disabilities have not been consulted, is in fact double wrong — what has happened. I am not saying that this is not the case, but under the law this could not happen and there are two locks. Firstly, there is a lock which comes from the so-called substance or content legislation which already obliges people to hear about the things that concern them in the services to which the law entitles them. Furthermore, the new articles of the new procurement law, which Minister Lindström is responsible for, state that this substance law must be taken into account and that the customers must be consulted as part of the planning of the procurement. In other words, there is no obstacle to legislation and there has been an error in relation to the two laws which would oblige it to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u164	I understand that Mr Lindström has a response to this same point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u165	Mr President! That is exactly what we hope for, of course, but at the Support Foundation for Disabled Children and Young People we have come across this problem. So when we talk about being heard, it does not secure human participation in it. That is why we should write more strongly this right of disabled people to be involved, not just to be heard. I think we all agree on this, but all we have to do is write it louder. And this is specifically related to procurement law and tendering. Then it's one thing when we're talking about personal budgets or service bills.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u166	Mr President! The arbitrary tendering of vital services for people with disabilities is a problem that needs to be addressed now. We cannot wait for the solutions of the social reform, because it is a question of strong human rights. I personally believe that the procurement law also needs corrections. Mr Kiljunen well pointed out that disabled people are not involved in these procurement procedures, and the procurement procedure means that the situation is being assessed every few years and, in the case of a disabled person, the situation is changing arbitrarily. In fact, the reform of the social security system is horrifying the size of a personal budget. I share the concern expressed by the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Salonen has risen several times, but when Mr Kiljunen and the Minister responded, it is logical that the same starter will continue the thematic debate at that point. At a later stage, I will certainly give Mr Salonen the floor again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u168	Mr President! In my view, at this moment, where we are talking about such a serious issue with this citizens' initiative, it is wrong to make an accusation to the government. This is a long-term problem in which each of us is involved, and I think that particularly at that municipal level... I think Mr Elovaara has made an excellent speech that we know the reasons and are now looking for those solutions. And I am glad that I, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, can experience the fact that, with the reform of social security, we will also improve on this issue. It's a very important value to me. But the second thing — if we look for these solutions to this issue — is how precisely the purchasing skills which, however, will continue to be needed in the provinces and municipalities in various matters, we will strengthen both the decision-makers and the civil servants.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u170	First of all, I will give one more reply, and that reply will go to Mr Filatov, and then there will be Minister Lindström, and then the debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u171	Mr President! This initiative is valuable because it raises the right of people with disabilities to self-determination and their own lives and their needs, as it were, into their own hands. But the fact is that, often behind these strict monetary conditions and competitions, money is so scarcely available for services for people with disabilities that, therefore, economic criteria weigh more than quality criteria. And now that we are talking about the decision-making of municipalities, you should think about how we in the municipalities make, for example, those municipal administrative rules and management rules. Is it that, after a certain amount of money, the council and the committees decide what is to be obtained, when the tendering procedure has been carried out, or is it so that we set the criteria and weights that determine, for example, the importance of economics, how much is on social grounds? When Katrina Alhola did her doctoral thesis, she did it on environmental criteria, but it revealed an interesting point, which shows that the price is still the determining factor and that the weight of environmental considerations is on average a few per cent and the weight of social criteria is even less important. This tells us the problem at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u172	And now, Minister Lindström, one minute off the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u173	Mr President! It is precisely this part of the municipality and this competence that I wanted to speak about, and thank you for that. On 17 October 2017, I sent Jari Koskinen, the CEO of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, a long letter of this kind and I hoped that the Association of Local and Regional Authorities would pass it on to all municipalities. This is precisely the aspect of competence that has been covered in these services for the disabled. It is quite true what Mr Filatov said: the price goes ahead of quality. We have been trying all along to market the possibilities of this new procurement law, precisely through these social criteria, to use them, which have been mentioned in every context, but of course it will decide and then, at the Council level, it will take those decisions. But I am able to believe and trust that the more we tell you this, that you use these, the more the courage to do so will be extended. I think we're at the top of something big and important here. In other words, concrete measures have already been taken in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u174	Mr President! Thus, in June 2016, Finland ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I would also like to remind you that it specifically emphasises the equality and participation of people with disabilities in all decision-making. And now, if you think that such services as housing or life-long support or assistance are such, then it is — not just amazing — something that is unacceptable that the actual service user is, as it were, completely bystander in decisions about himself. Since the tendering process, things have already been covered by the courts in Finland, and even at the moment Finland has gone to the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions for five places of petition. It is true that this amendment to the procurement law would certainly not solve everything, but if this area of application were to be excluded, i.e. the law would not apply to the purchase of services for the disabled,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u175	Congressman Tanus, it's been a little over a minute!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u176	Mr President! This is where the emphasis has now been placed on that acquisition competence. But it is hardly now that the county council makes a huge leap in purchasing skills compared to the municipal councils. This needs a little more drastic measures than simply relying on the regions to be better at procurement. This initiative is here precisely because there has been a great deal of damage to people with disabilities from the organisation of municipalities, for example, in re-run competitions. That is why this is here that these people with disabilities are concerned and this has not worked. I myself know that when I have worked as a special teacher, how important many things are in the employment relationship, personal chemistry and the functioning of the family, and they are individual solutions. Since this initiative is here and many countries in the European Union have been made to exclude these essential services from the scope of the procurement law, I therefore support this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u177	Reply, representative Skinneri. I will tell you, however, that, before you, there have been many members or alternate members of the SDP's social committee, former Minister for Social Affairs or the like, so that this is your concern in response to this, and now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u178	Mr President! Mr Skinner, member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, would like to thank you. — The Minister has already left, and this procurement law may have been dealt with to the point of fatigue, not least in the Economic Committee and when the procurement law was reformed. Of course, as the Minister said, with the responsibility of the Finnish officials, this was the way it was supposed to be and this is how it is going to be. I think it is now pointless to go ahead with this interpretation of the EU here and now. Then maybe it's up to the next government. But, Mr President, all in all, it is a question of us wanting services for people with disabilities out of the realm of competition. That's what this is all about. Kiima competes both in the municipalities and in the medical districts is huge. At the same time, we see that the buyer-producer model increases costs by up to 15%. And how do we do that? Now let's look for those solutions. Tonight's a good start. Of course, I appreciate the fact that the ministers were here. But it is a question of a knowledge debate. This acquisition is an eternal conversation. It's not enough to send a letter to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. I've got to do something else.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u179	Mr President! I wanted to replicate this somewhat strange speech by Mr Heikkinen when he said that, in this Chamber, the opposition in some way — was it ‘black paint’ what kind of term did you use?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u182	Mr President! First of all, warm thanks to the authors of the initiative. This is an excellent piece of work, and it must be brought to the debate and improved. It's obvious. After all, it is basically a question of purchasing competence. Today, we already have genuine instruments to manage this procurement procedure for disability services as well as possible and specifically in favour of the customer. There are such direct procurement procedures, as has been demonstrated in this debate, as well as the use of a service voucher, registered service providers and so on. The 2009 Procurement Report explicitly highlighted the fact that calls for tender are being made, if you go into the procurement procedure, to take more and more account of the quality of the tender procedure. Because of my trust, I have been involved in a few cases like this, and I have been monitoring the situation. There are excellent successes, but unfortunately there are also small failures. All the instruments are already in place, but it is good that we are now discussing them and getting a better result.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u183	Mr President! For my part, I would like to thank very much the authors of this citizens' initiative. This is important, and I myself have been able to work together many times over these parliamentary years and have also heard many examples of these disproportionate situations. President! I strongly believe that, now that we have finally ratified the Convention on the Fundamental Rights of Persons with Disabilities, there is a need to find a solution here and now. Every person should have the right to go home, every person should have the right to be involved in matters concerning the home. These competitive situations, as has been well mentioned here, have produced quite unreasonable situations on many occasions. I agree with the assessment that certainly many disabled people and their loved ones are quite tired of what is the state of the matter here and now. That is why I hope for a very serious debate and that this citizens' initiative will be the basis for action, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I think it is an important message that the most important is the objective,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u184	Mr President! It is easy to agree with these previous speeches that this is an issue that we need to deal with. It is quite clear, and it is good that there are a lot of parliamentarians and various parties here, and I really hope that we all have a common will to get this thing through. It is clear that when talking about long-term, life-long services that people with disabilities need, it is important that they remain: permanent relationships, permanent care relationships, familiar people around them. This must be the objective, and that is why the fact that these services are being put on the market is not right and does not achieve that objective. There's been a lot of talk here about purchasing skills, it's weak. That is why a solution must be found for these services to be excluded from these competitive methods or, if they are in any way put to the competitive process, it is done in such a way that they are sustainable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u185	Mr President! I am very pleased that this citizens' initiative is here for our parliamentary debate. No one’s home can change every three to four years without a person’s own desire. Many disabled people as well as elderly people, such as those with memory problems, and their loved ones have a lot of negative experience in tendering procedures for their services, such as housing, transport services, aids, rehabilitation services, and language interpretation services. All of these have been found to be very problematic because of this competition. On the basis of these experiences, this initiative has come, and I really hope that this initiative will receive a positive reading here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u186	Mr President! In fact, this has been a good debate even before this day on these life-long services, which, of course, particularly target people with disabilities, but also the elderly face these types of challenges, which then apply to that condition of life. However, young people have also faced similar challenges where they have become home, for example, and since then they have changed through competitive tendering. Everyone must have the right to their own home and preferably always so that it is as close as possible to their own relatives and their own natural homeland. I'm sure there are ways to find them. Personally, I consider it valuable that, for example, personal budgeting in the future should give these people and their families more opportunity to make decisions that would not create these unreasonable situations. The state of desire is common, and the challenges must be overcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u187	One more response to the representatives Heikkinen and Mäkisalo-Ropponen, and with these views no one else is going to be able to see, but we should continue with the list and the extension will be coming at a later stage. As far as I can see, everyone who has asked has had the floor so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u188	Mr President! Yes, this whole discussion is very important and, indeed, as a professional in the services of the elderly, I feel that I have lived in many situations in which this procurement law has not been properly used. But what I wanted to say in this speech is that it is very good that this citizens' initiative is here, but it is not because this government has done something wrong, on the contrary. We have improved the procurement law, we have brought here a regional reform that will enable these things to be done more widely on the shoulders and with more money. We are bringing in a social welfare reform that brings alternative methods to a major repertuary, specifically in addition to the procurement law. All of this means that in the future, I believe, disability services will be more feasible,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u189	Mr President! Minister Lindström said here that he sent a shepherd's letter to the municipalities on the ethical organisation of competitions, but I am not sure whether there has been an adequate response. As I said in my longer speech, the problem is often a problem of attitude and it is probably a matter of common concern for all of us to consider how to make the attitudes of the UN CRPD spread to every level in this society. If Minister Saarikko had been here, I would have asked him about this self-determination law, because it is also important to attach it to this point, because, for example, the registered will to care and the supported decision-making are very important aids for many disabled and memory-disadvantaged people in choosing their own home. This could also help to ensure the hearing and involvement mentioned by Mrs Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u190	Congressman Elomaa again, and then on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u191	Mr President! The Finns of Peru think that every citizen's initiative that gets here in the hall — that is, 50,000 people at least who have signed it — must be properly dealt with. In general, all citizens' initiatives have a very strong message and are important, and so is this Not for sale. Services for disabled people should not be competitive. It is very important that we have also noted here from various parties that this should not be about the party, but should be behind this citizens' initiative across the party lines, because it is up to us all to be disabled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u192	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u193	Mr President! Even in the 1930s, underprivileged children were auctioned in Finland for as cheaply as possible for better families, who then committed themselves to supporting the child with a certain compensation. Offerings were also held for people with disabilities and mental health problems as well as for the elderly. They were called cheerleaders, as we have heard today. The purpose of social care during that time was to reduce the cost of caring for disadvantaged people to society by transferring them to a kind of family care. However, shouting meant that many children and elderly people only wanted to make the most of their investment. Even though auctioning is now being horrified and even wanted to remain silent about our gloomy history, there are similarities to today’s competition and making it as cheap as possible. History makes it easy to see the blind points of the present era: the things for which everyone acted, although afterwards they proved to be major mistakes, even the tragedies of history. It is more difficult to see in this time the things that will be identified in the future as blind spots of our own age. One such thing, however, could be the direct application of results management lessons to social welfare and health care. Right now, everyone seems to swear blindly in the name of competition as a miracle-making and healing force, whether it be the pencils used by the public sector or the provision of services. In a tight economic situation, competitive tendering has, of course, brought savings in the short term, but at what overall price? The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force in Finland on 10 June 2016. According to the agreement, a disabled person has the right to decide on his or her own life and residence. It is also in the spirit of the Disability Pact that the choice of place of residence for a disabled person should be respected. This citizens' initiative under discussion is a loud cry for silence. It is a cry that this is not the case now. I hope now that message finally reaches us all. When municipalities compete for housing services for people with disabilities, the service provider can often change. Changes in home and housing are difficult for everyone, but excessive strain on living changes is caused especially by vulnerable groups, such as disabled people. The familiar living environment brings a sense of security, and long-term employee relationships in home-like housing make a significant contribution to well-being. Housing services for disabled people are even about living a lifetime and cannot be compared to other purchases, in no way. It is one thing to compete for goods and small-scale services than perhaps for a person’s entire life. At worst, competitive tendering means that you have to change your home every few years. This cannot be the case; people with disabilities must be able to influence where they live. In the recent debat, we discovered that this still seems to be an egg-chicken phenomenon, as I said here myself: who blames knowledge, who blames the law, who blames the law that both are contrary to what is happening in real life? I would have liked to ask this minister one more time: If it is a genuine lack of knowledge, why are the largest cities in our country also involved in these human stories, in which wrongs are committed? Should not large cities at least have the best know-how in our country when it comes to procurement and competition? So there's got to be something else wrong. Personally, I would say that as long as the management of the city applauds the officials on the back that huge savings have been made, there will be no change. But right after the back is applauded for having a human competition for once, which takes account of people's needs and in which people have been able to participate and influence themselves, culture also changes — culture also changes. I am very pleased with this citizens' initiative and with the fact that it has now been brought to the attention of Parliament. In fact, I would like to insist and I would like to see further consideration given to public consultation as a joint public consultation of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on Economic Affairs, perhaps even the Committee on Finance, because this concerns everyone and everyone must be involved. As long as we continue this debate, one committee will look at only one point of view, we will not find the answers that more people have called for in this Chamber. And we need answers. I myself said at the beginning that I am getting tired of always hearing these same answers, which is wrong, but nothing changes. And I said, "I'm sure you're tired of people with disabilities and their families too." But actually, I don't think they're bored. They're in a state of distress. All these stories that I myself have received since the written question of 2013 when people try to find answers to what could be done in their situation in order to make humanity come true, so that their child’s situation does not deteriorate any further, so that the sad stories that people have fallen into do not continue — all these stories tell that people are in need. We can no longer look beyond this need. It is our job now to find solutions. Finally, I would like to say that I hope that this No-for-sale citizens' initiative before Parliament will be taken very seriously and seriously as it deserves. The fundamental rights of any group of people cannot be for sale, and I myself have been the protector of this initiative and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u194	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Salonen for his very good speech. In fact, it is good to get started on the issues that you raised and perhaps look back a little bit at the past, how this current situation has come about and where this despair, distress and distress come from, the messages that we get both here in Parliament and also at the local level and at the local level about the pain caused by, for example, competitive tendering, what it will have to do when a personal assistant is transferred from the flight after years, even decades — not to mention the fact that the mapping of personal service needs has not led to the result of what would have been intended. From somewhere it tells us that there are countless judicial processes going on in this country for these things. It's about something. Is it a matter for the courts or for Parliament or then for municipal decision-makers to correct these matters? I'm sure it's all of that. Mr President! From this very history, so much has been said here about the procurement law, there has been mention of EU law, how we have come to this from 2007 to 2017 and the amendment of the procurement law, but when we look at Europeans, I think we have Great Britain in the same boat as Finland. How many other EU countries have gone into this competitive heat? But once that path has been chosen, as the Minister said, it will be difficult to reverse it. Mr President! The purpose of this initiative is, of course, to ensure that, as should be done, services for people with disabilities are excluded from the scope of competition, and that is possible. What are the means, then, when we know that there is constant competition in the health care districts, in the municipalities, to bring the subscriber—producer model, which in practice, however, leads to it, as I said earlier in my speech, that, according to the studies, the cost of the subscriber—producer model actually rises? This, Mr President, is also my message to the government now that you are putting this social and regional reform into practice on the basis of the buyer-producer model. Is that the solution for the future when the rest of the world is moving in the other direction? It's an old-fashioned solution. In practice, according to studies and experts, this price cap thinking leads to services being concentrated only on a few large operators, as has been said here today, going in at the price, gaining market share — and you know what will happen at the end. In practice, companies will only compete for costs, their bills and not their quality. Mr President! Now for those solutions. Even now, as has been said, the municipality, the hospital district, the contracting entity can in many ways apply its own decision-making powers in relation to the situation, and I am pleased to say that, for example, a job relationship is a way to make it work, a familiar person in that service relationship. In the same way, of course, the service voucher, which has spread across Europe, is a model which I strongly encourage to favour this House and, of course, also the medical districts and municipalities. The timetable we have for the individual budget and the resources we have for the future will then be a matter for the future. But finally, Mr President, this procurement law and the related training. This seems to be an eternity in this last two years, that every single month, every single week in this room, in this state, we will return to how this acquisition competence does not evolve. But why is it that the official is only bidding for the price, the price, the price? Is it because of the pressure of the owners that the weather, the weather, the weather? Under the pressure they experience, they could use the negotiated procedure, they would have any other tools to create that service network innovatively, but they will not, so it is also up to us decision-makers at local level to give them the confidence to use the means allowed by the procurement law if you do not get them out of the competition. In that sense, too, I look a long way into the mirror myself, because I too am such a municipal decision-maker.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u196	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! In time, I myself was allowed to be a teacher and also a special teacher, and there are still many families in the circle of friends who are also affected by this citizens' initiative and related issues. I have received a number of worrying contacts from them in this area over most of the years. This citizens' initiative, which collected more than 72,000 signatures, gave a voice to those whose voice in this society has not been heard in any other way. It is a matter of life-long services, which therefore affect people with disabilities above all, but also the elderly and some young people for quite long periods of time, and it is important to look for ways to make their homes as permanent as possible. In fact, in one familiar family, an autistic boy reacted in a wild way when his home and nearby nurses changed. It was difficult to look at for this family, but also for those of us who saw it quite close — as well as for asperger children or others. Actually, it's a pretty small crowd. There are over 5 million of us Finns, and this question affects only about 10,000 of us and some 5,000 of us who are hard to deal with. In fact, quite a lot can be thought that this is more of a matter of will. It is a question of their living, but also of other, in a certain way, everyday or life-related services, rehabilitation, for some, such as sign language interpretation, speech interpretation and other forms of assistance of this kind. The fact that we have a strong common will in this debate is that everyone should have the right to a home as permanent as possible. In that debate, I myself pointed out that I have also considered it valuable and good that, today, quite a few of these people are also able to live very close to their own homeland and close relatives. For example, this was not the case in my childhood, but the child in the neighboring house was separated tens of miles away from his family. In this debate, Mr Skinner outlined ways of dealing with these issues. Personally, I don't think it's a good idea not to put anything on the line. In a certain way, there must also be ways of monitoring the costs and how we can take care of them. But there are ways of doing this too, for example through the framework agreement, through the framework contract, so that there are more places to be addressed. In fact, I am encouraging all municipal decision-makers in their own municipalities, including in the case of housing services for older people, to highlight these types of solutions, that even in those competitions, they will no longer complain about just the one to which older people must go to live, but will also be given the opportunity to choose. I personally think it is excellent that the reform of social and health services also has a strong focus on personal budgeting. It also gives these mentally handicapped friends and loved ones the opportunity to make choices themselves and with their loved ones so that the home familiar with everyday life is not changed every few years, every five years, as presented and told here. Even today, municipalities can use service vouchers in these and in that way also give them a more permanent home. The need for this citizens' initiative is obvious, and I am particularly pleased that there were more than 72,000 Finns who wanted to give a voice to those whose voice in this society does not want to be heard otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u197	Mr President! This Non-for-sale citizens' initiative is important and the importance of this initiative is indicated by the fact that there were at best up to three ministers on the ground. The progress of this citizens' initiative must certainly not depend on ideology or party politics. Its objectives should be supported by everyone who has received the mandate here for human reasons and without conditions. In human terms, competitive services for disabled people in life will have completely unacceptable consequences. The situation is untenable. Therefore, just as this citizens' initiative requires, life-long services for people with disabilities must be provided outside the tendering procedure provided for in the procurement law. Here in Parliament there is currently a government social welfare law package in the committees. It is a large entity, and there is much to question and criticise. I am not going to start listing those points here, but I would like to highlight one aspect of this, and that is one very good element of this reform, which has also been praised by the disability organisations. I regard them as experts in this matter. If the intended personal budget for the services of people with disabilities is made financially sufficient, it would be a really important step towards strengthening the right to self-determination and equality of people with disabilities. There would then be no need for competition for life-long services and there would be no need to be concerned about the way in which the municipalities handle these competitions — unfortunately all too often today, money ahead. However, the personal budget must be financially sufficient to ensure that, despite the good intentions of the personal budget, some people with disabilities are not forced to settle for weaker and cheaper services. But, Mr President, regardless of whether this reform of the government's social welfare system will take any form, it is important that we get rid of the dumping regime for people with disabilities in all future alternatives to housing and other services. I hope that this citizens' initiative will be thoroughly and successfully dealt with here in Parliament — it deserves it — and I hope that its objective will be implemented as soon as possible. One more thing, Mr President, is that it is close to this citizens' initiative. I also hope that any social reform that will take place, whatever it takes place, will also take into account the improvement of existing practices in the daytime and work activities of people with disabilities. Regrettably, daytime activities are passive and resuscitation ‘sucking’. Sometimes, quite concretely, it is, rather than being humanly and practically of high quality and inspiring and rehabilitating, but it is the place of another debate, Mr President. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u198	Mr President! However, in this very speech, I would like to begin by repeating my thanks for the fact that I think it is very important that this citizens' initiative was taken and is being discussed here. I know the work that has been done over the years in the various organisations and in these organisations for the disabled — it deserves humble thanks for this house. Undeserved devotion to an important cause, I have always been able to admire it. All in all, I think, Mr President, that this is the situation, now that the initiative is being taken here in Parliament and it comes to the various committees, that we must once and for all try to find a solution in order to ensure that the human rights of people with disabilities are realised. We know the problems associated with the competition for housing services. There are, of course, quite terrible situations when, as Mr Guzenina said very recently in his speech, this person may have to change his home as a result of competitive tendering, where money is most often determined. After all, Finland's procurement law in its history has been quite competitive. I remember the frequent discussions along the way, such as with people with mental disabilities and with their organizations, that the problem has been much that of seeing a person as an object, so that economics go beyond human dignity. Of course, this is, in principle, a completely wrong attitude. President! In this debate, I listened to this speculation about the committee hearings and found that the Committee on Finance was mentioned as one of the parties in this public consultation, and I think it was a good idea for us to organise a public consultation between several committees, including the Committee on Finance, which includes budgetary matters, then on this citizens' initiative. I'm sure a lot of us are interested in that. At the end of the day, President, I think it would also be important for me to do so here in Parliament, when the initiative is being discussed, to do so in broad cooperation with the organisations of the disabled, and then to make their views and expertise very clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u199	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The cards of life are not all the same for all of us, and the fact that not everyone gets the same cards in their hand is also behind the fact that we have this Not for sale citizens' initiative here in Parliament. This is very important. There are over 72,000 people behind it. They are people who have seen close to the way in which the services of people with disabilities have been achieved, and they want certainty, security and change. Mr President! I entirely agree with Mr Heikkinen when you said that the government cannot blame these things. We do indeed have a procurement law reform, and yes, the municipalities and those decision-makers should be seen when there are different calls for tenders, that there is that purchasing organisation know-how there. Here, Mr Skinner made a good point about how we can improve that knowledge and how we can do that confidence, send the message to the municipalities and also to the decision-makers themselves, that you choose now, ladies and gentlemen, that quality and not always that price. But then it is feared that market law will be imposed, that is, simple things, that people will be afraid and think that it is always the cheapest one to choose. It's not like that. It's a choice of quality. In that sense, I see that this is a common cause for all of us, and here in particular it seems that the debate has recognised the importance of this initiative. It would be wonderful if we had such a wide public hearing again, that would be wonderful. In my opinion, personal assistance, housing and care should be long-term. For more than five years, I worked in a group home for elderly people with mental disabilities, and I remember the kind of commendation, the feedback came from the fact that during the night, while working as a night nurse, covering up, caring for a person, helping, providing the necessary help, making sure that it is good to fall asleep and feel safe and the nurses are all familiar and people around, the rooms are familiar and the places to move are familiar. It's very important. It seems brutal that we in this group of people who are weak and not so much able to make their voices heard should suddenly compete and move, especially in rural areas, tens of miles away from their elderly loved ones. That, too, is the problem. We have a lot of these disabled people who still live in their homes treated by elderly parents, and the fear of giving up whether or not to let them go into the community of service housing is really big for them. Of course, service providers can compete with each other, which improves quality. It is all right that we have this kind of positive competition and that service providers compete with each other on a number of issues, because then the service will improve. It's important. But if a person is involved — especially now here we are talking about people with disabilities — and on their terms we are going to do this, I do not think it is right. But it's all right that we tighten up those service providers and everyone's trying to make the best of it. Mr President! There was a debate here today on the detention of illegal residents during Question Time, and when the Minister from the box said it was expensive, it is 200 euros a day at that price, so what about this mini-tendering? When in the care of the elderly in Finland today there can be a price set for a service provider of EUR 70 per day, think about how we talk about different things. The care of an old person, including care, assistance, nursing hours, 24-hour care, food, everything, must only cost 70 euros. How does this service provider, which is often a woman, a care provider, cope with her business? But it was said here that, for example, detention in these cases for asylum seekers who are not entitled to stay here, for paperless reasons, costs EUR 200 per day. That's a lot. Mr President! Sote reform promises a lot, it has good services, smooth services, and facilitates people's everyday lives. It is important that all those who cannot make their voices heard also have the personal budget. It is a good thing that these services are being carried out. There was also talk of the screamers. When you listen to stories and have visited the situation of different municipalities, regions and especially this mini-competition, there is a fear of whether the shouting world has come back here if the competitions continue. Yes, I consider this tendering for elderly care to be a very serious matter and I agree with Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen's good comment that there must be professional, skilled staff, assistants, whether there is personal help or nurses there. You have to be professionally trained. You can't be just anyone who's taken off the street to do this job. Mr President! Indeed, it is a valuable consideration of this citizens' initiative — it is the idea of the Finns on which they are based in all their citizens' initiatives. That is great, so thank you all for putting a name on this initiative. I would like to raise this issue of the Council of People with Disabilities, which is also raised in the reform of social security. Among other things, the Social and Regional Reform website contains a very good summary of what is included in the social media, and it says that social services will enable you to influence your services, participate in the Council for the Elderly and the Disabled, and the Youth Council will also be mentioned there. The disability councils are statutory. During the last term, the Finns made a bill about it, and it is great that it is now connected to the law. But I am very concerned whether it will be heard through these councils, because the disability council has to have adequate representation of people with disabilities, their families and organisations under the law, i.e. what is the appropriate representation. On the other hand, the Councils of the elderly and the disabled are not decision-making bodies, which means that they give opinions and then share ideas. But the initiative is very important and I think it is extremely important to hear the voice of a person. Home is a good place to live, live and be, and it has to be long-lasting. You can't just throw people at them like a bag of rice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u200	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the citizens' initiative! All in all, we have had quite a good debate here, not simply repeating the problems that the procurement law has in the services of disabled people. Some attempts have also been made to find solutions, and this is not always the case in this Chamber, as in other social debates. I have already said in the debate that decision-making and the functioning of the public administration must correspond to the general sense of law, and this citizens' initiative and these 72,000 signatures to date are a good example of the fact that this has not been the case in the competition for services for disabled people. Many cases have been reported to the public now and in the past where the housing service unit for disabled persons, i.e. the home, is changing as a result of competitive tendering. In addition to home, the local community, the staff and everything that has become an integral part of the disability’s own sphere of life will be changed at the same time. The everyday life is broken down, and users of services are left out of the solutions of their own lives. The consequences for the individual of such action are disproportionate, and it is quite appropriate to ask to what extent humanity fits in with the decisions we make on behalf of the other person. Mr President! As has been said in this Chamber in several speeches during this debate, this procurement law alone is not a problem. The main problem is the varying application of the law. Some municipalities and bodies that make these tenders apply only the procurement law and it is often very narrow-minded. They fail to take advantage of many other ways of purchasing services, such as a service voucher or framework competition. In certain cases, it is also possible to purchase a service directly and, as I said earlier, I am pleased that the social welfare reform also offers new opportunities, including through the customer voucher of personal budgeting and freedom of choice. Minister Saarikko, among other things, tried to describe in his brief speech what that freedom of choice will mean. First of all, I would like to emphasise that even through the transfer of procurement from municipalities to provinces, the risk of poor procurement skills is reduced, because contracting entities and contracting entities are larger, so many things — I feel and believe — can work better than at present. What this freedom of choice and the customer voucher is: it means, among other things, that the euro alone is not the decisive issue, but in these matters, what is decided to be acquired from the province, criteria are defined which really do not need to be the determining factor, and that is not done by competitive tendering, but rather by criteria and those who, the service providers who meet these set criteria, as it were, and then, for example, a disabled person, his guardian or family member, or together, can decide what is best suited for this disabled person or elderly person. This seems to me to be a very great opportunity, because then the current municipality or future province will not be the decision-maker who makes the decision in favour of it, but the disabled person with his immediate community may be a real party, because he makes the procurement decision either through a personal budget or through a customer voucher. This is a great opportunity, and it is an opportunity not only for small local companies that provide services, but also for third sector operators who, I hope, are increasingly providing these services. Mr President! It is also good to remember in this debate that social and health care services safeguard constitutional rights, inclusion, equality and self-determination. That is why they are most important in terms of continuity, predictability, security and the individual needs of the customer. People with disabilities are in many ways a particularly vulnerable group in our society, and that is why decision-making about them should respect the particular sensitivity of considering how the solutions we make, the solutions we make for them, affect the everyday lives of these people. If the municipality makes short-term savings through competitive tendering according to the cheapest service, we know that those savings can ultimately be costly. With the fall in functional capacity, the need for service is likely to increase quite rapidly. Finally, Madam President, there is one point I would like to address. This is where Mr Guzenina highlighted the quality of daytime activities. Yes, daytime activities are certainly diverse, but there is a lot of good quality day activities in society. I have been able to participate in it in a number of ways, and that is his slightly understating “sucking nut ” cream,which is of real importance to a large number of people with disabilities,and all other activities that are very simple. There's a feeling that I can do this. I'm important. At best, those parties and companies want to involve me in a fine way with disabled people so that they offer such tasks, which disabled people are able to do, for them to do. I think it is a very valuable piece of work, and I hope that more and more companies and bodies will cooperate in this way, because at best I have seen, for example, these disabled people who, in daytime activities, are doing this bagging or splitting of nuts or other small parts, whatever it is that this attempt to involve these disabled people in the business, invites them as guests and shows them the significance of this work done by a disabled person in daytime activities. This increases the feeling that what I do matters. You shouldn't belittle something you don't fully understand. But thank you all for this good debate, a valuable debate. As Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I hope that we will also be able to express our own views on this citizens' initiative and continue the debate on this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u201	Mr President! ‘How to order and compete with the child? This is the telephone call I received when Hämeenlinna moved to the subscriber-producer model and I could not answer that question. It was not a question of money shortages; it was not a question of whether to compete at the price or whether to compete with quality; it was a question of what — by means of a competitive procedure or a ordering procedure — would be able to ensure that what was desired was obtained. The subscriber-producer model is getting old-fashioned. In fact, many municipalities have tried it and concluded that it does not bring the expected benefits and that it incurs overlapping costs, and the municipalities have dismantled these models of subscriber-producer. In that sense, when discussing whether it is a personal budgeting exercise or whether it is a customer voucher for a future solution, both will certainly be good if there is sufficient resources. Of course, the concerns expressed in this Chamber regarding services for people with disabilities and other services and the reform of social security are linked to this funding for social welfare reform and whether the money will then be sufficient to fight with its quality. When we think about purchasing, it is a fight for money and quality. Which one of us will focus on the more important thing that is being invested in? And when it comes to finding those solutions at municipal level, for example, it is often a question of what level the budget is set. If that budget requires cuts and, as it were, requires more savings, then the value of the price increases at the expense of quality, and if you are prepared to invest in quality, then there is often a need for additional resources. This is not always the way this equation works, because sometimes making things smarter can get better quality and still save on price. But when it comes to services for people with disabilities, the situation should not be that those who are close to or disabled themselves have to fight for them and their statutory services and their quality. That is why this initiative is extremely important that, when we talk about specific groups, we have to find procedures that are certainly not here at the auction, as Mr Salonen has well described, in my opinion, what the situation is sometimes like. One possibility could be to build a model for disability services in which disabled people's housing, assistance and other services are produced in combination with public services and, in a way, private services provided with service vouchers. In Europe, these models have produced good results in other countries, and then, in a way, the customer chooses the service provider. It is not a matter of public procurement, and then the procurement law does not have to be applied or considered in terms of the competitive criteria and the weight of price and quality, but the choice is the one that governs it. This is the positive aspect of freedom of choice in the face of war, but once again we are faced with the fact that what is the resource that is used to acquire these entities? At the time I was working on the interim labour market report, and I went through a lot of different procurement processes, and I have been doing one of the procurement laws in my time when I was a minister, and I think that our Finnish problem is that we are competing too small. The EU thresholds are higher than our national legislation, and when you go to municipalities, the thresholds are even lower in the municipal procurement guidelines than they are in the national legislation. Here we find ourselves in a situation where we often acquire very small entities and compete and those competitive costs actually become greater than the benefits we derive from financial tendering, and that is why we should think about this package and find those more innovative procurement procedures. Well, then, if you look from the municipal decision-making point of view, then the administrative and management rules of many municipalities determine how much the acquisition must be in order for it to be decided at the board level or to be decided at the council level, but instead the criteria go through quite quickly. There is an attempt to regulate them in the budget or in some form of guidance, but it would, in a way, be more relevant politically to decide what weight quality and quality criteria have in relation to price, because it determines much more of the outcome. After the tendering process has been completed and the criteria are at the table, the margin is actually rather small, no matter how large the procurements are. Then the power of its political decision-makers will decide differently, as if the result of competitive tendering has been achieved, will be very thin, then there will be no room for manoeuvre. It is therefore essential to pay attention to how this procurement process starts. But, indeed, when it comes to people who need a variety of services, which are needed in a way that is long-term, we should consider the ways in which the disabled person is better involved in this whole thing. Well, this dissertation by Katrina Alhola, which I referred to in that debate, was alarming in the sense that it told me how much we stress quality. For example, during the last parliamentary term, the Government decreed that certain objectives should be met with regard to environmental criteria and that environmental criteria are essential in public procurement. Well, I don't think we've come close to those goals, but that's the price that determines. Similarly, we could go a long way beyond these quality and social criteria. And if you think that the provinces are bigger units and they automatically bring us more knowledge, I dare to doubt it, because many of them are about the same size as Helsinki and Vantaa. In other words, they do not grow to such an extent that there would be large contracting entities that could make the groundwork very much more significant than it has been until now — that there will be quite a lot of scarce resources to go there when the services will have to be paid for and not just for that purchase. What was essential in that Alhola study was that we did not have any social criteria at all, it was as if they had been wiped out. We had transport and we had production security and quality criteria of this kind there, but the criteria that bring quality to the life of the recipient of the service were quite lacking, and I think this reflects the criteria we set for services and the fact that the money talks too much in these situations. The political decision-maker, when we are looking for solutions, is always responsible for the amount we are budgeting for. We cannot blame officials for poor competitions and choices if we allow too little budget to prepare those purchases, so in that sense it is, in a way, a question of knowledge, but it is also a question of allocating political or economic resources. And as far as this nut is concerned, I would like to say that I am perhaps between you two speakers in the sense that I understood that Mr Guzenina meant that when you put a nut in a bag of people for whom it is not valuable work, and you force it and it is done at a price that does not work, which is not reasonable, and you have the ability to do much more, it goes in a bad way, but when you talk about the people to whom Mr Heikkinen is referring here, to whom it is at the very limits of capacity and gives content to the fact that ‘I am a part of a society,that is something useful’, it is changing to make sense. So, no matter what activities are involved, especially for people with disabilities, the essential thing is that the services are the right thing for the person, the jobs are the right thing for the person who is involved. In other words, if one word you want to decide, I think it’s ‘personal’andthat personalityin this process needs to be sought and strengthened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u202	Mr President! First of all, thanks to the citizens' initiative makers and signatories, this is a very important issue, and also thanks to all the speakers in the Chamber. There has been a very good debate, and I think there is a chance even for a citizens' initiative to be well supported. Competitive competition for the necessary support and assistance of people with disabilities runs counter to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is the essence of the citizens' initiative. What happens when municipalities re-enlist services for people with disabilities and the familiar safe staff who have created a familiar, safe care relationship with a disabled person do not go into the service of a new operator? Yes, day-to-day construction must start again, and the consequences of competitive tendering can be damaging to many, even disastrous. In the case of people with disabilities in particular, humanity and money are now at odds. If we look further, it is likely that competitive tendering in this area can lead to even worse economic results. Today I had guests from Turku, the region of Turku, 15 people with some serious injury. Most of them were in a wheelchair in traffic. The first point that they raised in our debate was a positive one, namely that they were delighted that Parliament has taken great account of accessibility in the context of the renovation. Even the disabled person can move better in this building than in previous years, and they were delighted with this. But when we were discussing the issues of disabled people themselves, they had quite a few messages: no competitive tendering for services for people with disabilities; personal budgeting ok; and if this is the case, the rights of people with disabilities must actually be taken into account. Today I also met the mother of an adult retarded boy. I asked him what message he had, and he said that he was worried about the future of his beloved son if anything happened to him. It is also important when I asked him about himself that the days off that he had actually come true. These days off are very necessary for a family carer. The Finns believe that citizens' initiatives should indeed be dealt with in a very deep, strong way and discussed. In most cases, their message is that there are faults that need to be corrected. This citizens' initiative is very welcome. I'm in favour of that. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u203	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The ethical and moral nature of our society is measured in how we treat and take care of the weakest, such as the disabled, the elderly and the sick. People with disabilities and their loved ones, as well as the elderly and their loved ones, have a huge number of experiences of discontent and disappointment as a result of competitive tendering. They usually want places for service housing and community homes that work in a homelike, human and ethical way. These are well - awaited in families with retarded family members. Disabled youths want to move out because they see their own siblings doing so. Many older parents are very concerned about who their children will care for when their powers run out. Parents of special children wonder about the future almost from the time of the baby, especially if it turns out when the child grows up that he will not be able to cope alone. Disabled young people want home-like facilities that can be decorated according to their own preferences and where they can spend time in their own privacy but where they can find company in common spaces and at mealtimes. Personnel who know the good spirit of service homes and community homes with residents. Many times special skills, such as sign language, are needed. You have to be able to take into account every resident with their own special needs, create a home for them. People with disabilities, the elderly and their loved ones have therefore found the application of competitive tendering procedures to social and health services in many areas of life very problematic. In addition to housing, these include transport services, aids, rehabilitation and language interpretation. In the light of these experiences, users have found that the tendering procedure carried out by the body responsible for organising services is totally inappropriate for the provision of essential services of a life-long duration for people with disabilities. And this experience has led to this citizens' initiative, which I am very pleased about coming here to Parliament. In the case of the provision of services to disabled people and also the elderly, the low price must not be a determining factor, as it is often not the most effective solution to ensure quality. The EU does not require us to compete, so let us put an end to it. Regular social relationships in human life cannot be changed arbitrarily and at random. The importance of a socially and physically familiar environment is particularly important for people with disabilities, which is why the transfer of people must be arbitrarily avoided and resisted. The services of everyday life cannot be changed often, because life includes social environments and regular interactions, familiar things that create security and people who bring help. The provision of services for a short period of time constitutes violence against the lives of people with disabilities. Life doesn't exist in periods of three or four years. This also applies to the elderly and their services. Instead of mass competitions in service housing, eyes must be turned on people who need services. Services shall be provided on the basis of the needs of the disabled person for assistance and support and an individual service plan. Public services need to be tailored to people's needs, and alongside them, disability organisations and small local actors need to develop services for people's needs. There is also a need for a greater attitude towards the involvement of people with disabilities and their loved ones in the design of their own services. Workers should be encouraged to try the organisation of services more individually and flexibly than usual. Human freedom must touch all citizens. It should be noted that the freedom of choice for certain categories of service users, such as people with disabilities, is fundamentally and extensively linked to the implementation of such human rights in everyday life, which appear to us, of course, but which they often lack. If people are not free to define their own needs or to implement themselves or to make decisions about their own services and their own home, we cannot talk about social inclusion. This needs to be changed, and this is what this citizens' initiative has come up with. I am therefore very pleased that this citizens' initiative is here in Parliament and that this debate has taken place today. I hope that the proposals in this citizens' initiative will be adopted and put into law and practice here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u204	Mr President! I did not prepare a written speech, and I waited a long time to say a few more words about this citizens' initiative on services for people with disabilities and their organisation. I would like to say that we can no longer hold the debate on who is guilty and talk bureaucraticly about the EU, about the procurement law, about the administration, about the decision-makers or about the skills of officials. They are all relevant parts of this subject, but now we need to talk about what we really do in order to solve this problem. It is terribly difficult to understand why it is so unreasonably difficult there at municipal level to cooperate between authorities and disability organisations, involving all those important and key players and those people and this disabled person and his/her own neighbours in order to find that human and sensible solution for the disabled. So now, in a way, we have gone too far in this administrative language, which is terribly typical, and the disabled is the one who falls in. Unfortunately, no minister will necessarily recognise this problem as his or her own, because it extends to many sectors, but that cannot be the reason why this problem is not solved. That is why I am absolutely in favour of the joint public committee meeting with the Economic Committee, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and possibly the Committee on Finance, where these committees take responsibility for this issue, find solutions and then implement them — and that would all be public. And I hope that after that, the government will step up its efforts there at grassroots level to ensure that these things start to happen as they should. In fact, I do not believe at all that, with the new elements in the law, we can necessarily correct the problem we have in our hands, because it is a terrible human problem. It is that we understand what another person needs. We already have quite a lot of legislation in this area, but it is about the state of mind and the way in which it is done, the way in which it is done. I would like to see every municipal decision-maker in every municipality, and in particular the municipal executive, the city boards, now, on the basis of this debate and on the basis of this Parliament's decision — whatever it is with regard to that citizens' initiative — decide that from now on we will do this. Then it must consider the right and will of a disabled person and his neighbor. I'm so tired of making things this difficult myself. I do not believe that any disabled person or his fellowman will be able to hear a word about the EU, about the procurement law, about anything like this any more. Our job is to solve those problems, and that must be done where they are. It's not that hard. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u205	Madam President! People with disabilities, like all of us, have the right to a good life, and it requires that disabled people themselves also have the right to decide where and how they want to live their lives. Competition for the life-long and essential services of people with disabilities will reduce this autonomy. For many disabled people, permanence, continuity and predictability in services is a prerequisite for well-being. Trust and mutual understanding are born only with time. Therefore, life-long disability services must be excluded from the procurement law, as required by the Non-for-sale citizens' initiative. Thank you very much to those who have taken the initiative and also to colleagues for the good debate that has taken place here today. Mr President! At the moment, the price of services for disabled people is overwhelming. Even if quality criteria are involved in competitive tendering, they do not really matter very much. The people most concerned by the quality of services are the disabled person himself and his/her loved ones. On the other hand, they have too little say on the basis of which services are decided. People with disabilities have been deprived of their own decisions. This cannot be the case. In the case of housing services, it can force a disabled person to move away from his home against his will. This shouldn't happen to anyone. In the case of disabled people, however, it is not just a matter of someone who decides on the new address other than you. A disabled person's life is about a change that can shock his whole life. Changing situations in housing, assistant relationships or social services confuse everyday life. People who do not communicate with speech lose staff who understand them. At the same time, the health and well-being of people with disabilities and their human rights are shaken in the worst case scenario. Mr President! The citizens' initiative proposes that the provision of housing and daily life services necessary for the necessary care and support of people with disabilities be excluded from the procurement law. It's quite possible to do this. EU legislation does not require competition for disability services, but can decide on how to organise them at national level. So it is in our own hands how we want to organise it. For example, in Ireland, Austria and Flanders in Belgium, there is no competitive tendering method such as Finland. Now we have organised this in a way that runs counter to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Finland has ratified that agreement in 2016. Therefore, disability services could also be organised differently. Instead of tendering, for example, service vouchers or a personal budget for all disabled persons could be used. In such cases, the decision-making powers of the services would be conferred on disabled persons themselves. But even then, it is essential that sufficient money is also made available for the purchase of these services. The provision of services, taking into account people's overall well-being, will also be cheaper in the long term. On the other hand, competitive tendering favours partial optimisation and the transfer of costs from one producer to another. Mr President! All Finnish disability organisations work together behind the Not for Sale initiative. It collected over 70,000 signatures. This means that the tendering of disability services does not fit more than 70,000 Finnish citizens in the sense of justice. It doesn't fit my sense of justice, either. The realisation of the human rights of people with disabilities depends on how their services are organised. That is why these services must be carried out on the terms of human rights, not of competition policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u206	Mr President! That society is the strongest that best cares for its weakest, that is, those who cannot take care of themselves. That is what Mahatma Gandhi has said. The rights of people with disabilities are extremely important and we must ensure that all people, in accordance with their specific needs, have an adequate framework for a decent life. The Procurement Act as such is not an obstacle to the quality of the provision of services for people with disabilities. The problems are on a practical level. It is important to increase the skills of municipalities in the application of the Procurement Act in order to maintain the quality of disability services at a sufficiently high level. It is also important to have the right information — for example, the fact that housing services for people with disabilities do not even need to be competitive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u207	Madam President! I myself consider this citizens' initiative to be very important and to be supported, and I hope that it will receive the consideration it deserves in Parliament, whether it is an open committee hearing or where we end up. There has been much talk of competition and procurement law here. As mentioned above, neither of these is in itself an obstacle to the proper management of disability services. It is mainly the responsibility of municipal decision-makers in Finland at the moment, and when I myself sit as a municipal decision-maker and also as an entrepreneur, a producer of disability services, I think it is important that the decision-makers have the ability to organise this service but also to assess the need and ability and how much resources are needed for it. I would like to raise one point of view in this debate, which I have not heard here, at least not today. It is the fact — when it is said that tendering is only bad — that there is also a good thing in it that when the disabled person has received someone’s service but is not satisfied, he does not have to complain about it in any way or anything, but over time this service provider will change when the next episode comes. I can take mine for example: If the disabled person is not satisfied with the service I provide, he is fully entitled to change service providers. This is a good thing. Now, if it is arranged in such a way that it is contractual or municipal service that lasts to the end of life, and it is not satisfactory for this disabled person, then it is extremely difficult to complain about it and thus want to change. This freedom of choice makes it possible not to use the services of Pakkasen Marku if the disabled person is not satisfied. You can switch to another service provider. This is a valuable quality for people with disabilities, too, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u208	Madam President! I would like to thank these citizens' initiative makers, who have given a voice in order to stop the necessary help and support for the competition of people with disabilities, and it is great to see that this debate is still being followed up in the gallery. A lot has been said here this evening about tendering, quality criteria, procurement, purchasing know-how, and it has been discussed that who knows what is wrong with it: has there been a procurement law or even a public procurement directive at the end of the EU, or are they unfortunate municipal decision-makers who do not know how or are officials? Well, in fact, Mr Elovaara said here that we should stop talking about all these things and settle this matter simply by means of such a joint meeting. In my own speech, I have to use all these terms just because every decision that has been taken has its own history. And the reason why we in Finland are currently in a situation where life-long services are being awarded is because of their own history of decision, and it is perhaps worth going through here as well. In other words, not all of this jargon in terms of procurement and tendering responds to the original wishes of these citizens' initiative makers, i.e. it is not a question of whether competition is good or bad, but of not wanting to compete for these life-long services at all. Finland’s procurement law history has been implemented by the EU’s model student class in the Public Procurement Directive. This could be said in an ironic sense, because at the time when the procurement law was adopted on the basis of this Public Procurement Directive, it was decided in Finland that these life-long services would be covered by the Procurement Act. That is why, at the moment, we are in the difficult situation that if these services are not provided by the public sector but are procured on the private market by means of procurement criteria, then we must be competitive, but if we have a public producer, then no power in the world, not even the EU, can force that tendering process. In other words, the options are that we actually produce these by the public producer, or else these different methods listed here too, such as direct procurement, service vouchers, customer vouchers or this personal budgeting. Whatever the opinion of the social-taste reform, I think that this personal budgeting method of acquiring these life-long services might be a good solution if it is possible to ensure that the resources are sufficient and that, in fact, the customer is the disabled person, that it is not limited in the law to the outside world that, if he is unable to express his own will, he would not then be able to be an active actor in that personal budget. So you could say that in that sense this personal budgeting can be one way of solving these problems, where we are at the moment. Instead, a fellow Member mentioned that, when it comes to provincial supply rings or regional competitions, it would be better to be in a better situation than perhaps in a small municipality where there may have been a small amount of purchasing know-how. I am afraid that when these tenders go to the regional level — if they are put to the competition — this will happen that very easily small producers will fall out of the sled and will not be able to take part in these different competitions at all, because these purchase lots may become so large that a small producer will not be able to participate in them. But really, if we look at this procurement directive and the procurement law based on it, then, when this first procurement law was originally enacted, Finland really went down these thresholds well below the maximum limits allowed by the directive, and that was when Finland became the most competitive country in the EU — not just for these services, for example, for the disabled and the elderly, but, above all, we were the most competitive country. Due to mixed interpretations, many small operators were eliminated from the market and local producers were ignored in these invitations to tender. Well, I was a mep in the European Parliament when the directive on public procurement began to be improved and reformed. At the time, the most important reform in that reform was that the directive already pointed out that the cheapest price is not an exclusive criterion but rather makes the most economically advantageous choice, and that quality will then play an important role. In that sense, of course, it was hoped that when this quality was already included in the public procurement directive, then in this revised Finnish Procurement Act it would have gained a little more weight. It also provided for these exemptions for social services and health services, and that is also the case that some of the procurements can be directed directly to, for example, workshops or social operators by means of social criteria. But I must say that even though the procurement law was reformed, knowledge of these possible improvements has not reached the Finnish procurement field, and in that sense all the flexibility that exists inside it has not been realised. Here, too, I recall, Mr Filatov and Mr Skinner raised the point that the fact is, of course, that when the municipalities impose a very strict budgetary framework and when it is known quantitatively that a certain number of services should be provided, it is difficult then to go beyond that quality criterion as if it were past the price, even if it would be hoped, when it is known where it ultimately meets the size of the money bag. But, indeed, I would like to reiterate that if we want these life-long social services not to be competitive, then we should be able to go there to the root and remove them from the whole interpretation that Finland has done in the past. Or another option: we really do assume that these services will then be produced in public. Or the third option: that through direct procurement, service vouchers, customer bills and personal budgets, we ensure that these are no longer subject to competitive tendering. But in other ways this competition cannot be avoided if we go there and get these services on the market. But I have at least understood the core message of this citizens' initiative, that there is no desire here to speak of better quality than poor quality competition, but that these services are simply to be removed from this tendering process as a whole. We must hope that all these different options will be well examined in the committees and then consider how to improve this current situation and, in particular, that we will be able to do what many other EU countries have been able to do, that is to say, to remove these life-long services as a whole from the interpretation of the procurement law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u209	Madam President! I have followed this good debate on the acquisition and competitive tendering of life-long disability services. In this regard, Mr Essayah gave an excellent speech, which I can fully endorse and which clarified this situation. This is an issue in which I too have been contacted with regard to disability organisations and an issue that is being discussed. I think that this is precisely the kind of thing that is appropriate as a citizens' initiative, because this parliamentary debate will certainly clarify this situation and then perhaps lead to any necessary legislative changes. The real situation at the moment is that the municipality has not always been forced to tender these life-long disability services, there are, and so on. On the other hand, this reform of social and health services, which can and must also bring improvement to this situation, is really coming. All I hope, Mr President, is that this initiative, an important issue, will be dealt with well here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u210	Madam President! Not for sale, not for walking over, not for putting aside — disabled people are an important group of citizens with a lot to offer in society, and we have a lot to learn from them. They remind us of a lot of people. Their overall long-term well-being must be ensured, and living, that is, home, and the help and support needed. It includes caring for the health of people with disabilities, good treatment of associated diseases, and all this with a preventive approach. In other words, a holistic approach is needed when people with disabilities are decided on both in the municipalities and here in Parliament. Direct procurement, service vouchers can be used, as can personal budgets, but what is essential is that the budget should be sufficiently large. I hope there's a change to the Procurement Act. Let us hope that the necessary changes will also be made to other necessary laws and regulations and, above all, that the procedures will be improved most quickly. When I was in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and also as a municipal decision-maker, I tried to help it. All in all, more goodwill and a more human attitude towards people with disabilities and their affairs are needed, and that is what we all have to work together for. Here I would also like to thank the disability organisations, the many activists who have worked hard on an important issue. I hope that good cooperation can continue and, above all, so that the necessary improvements can be put into practice as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u211	Mr President! The problem identified by the authors of the citizens' initiative is real. Humanity and good housing and care should be everyone's concern. This is not the case at the moment. The well-being of people with disabilities is linked to a steady pace of life and familiar nurses. Circumvention changes, such as staff change, shock disabled people and significantly undermine their well-being. The basic principle of the welfare state is that everyone is taken care of, including me, including you. It must also be the Finnish principle. On 1 January 2017, amendments to the Procurement Act have entered into force with a view to increasing the quality of the competitive tendering of social and health services. The law in this form has therefore been in force for a short time, which is why it is, of course, still early to say whether new competitions have been affected by the changes. So improvements have already been made to the law, but certainly not all improvements have yet been made. Municipalities also have other options to organise housing services for people with disabilities than tendering. If necessary, direct contracts can be awarded to the services and the municipality can award a customer voucher to the disabled person, or the municipality can also organise housing services in the form of public production. The Social Welfare Act already obliges the body responsible for organising social services, i.e. the municipality at present, to consult the customer and, if necessary, his or her close customer services at various stages of the process, i.e. the assessment of service needs, the planning and decision-making of services, and the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of services. However, someone should be more careful to ensure that this law is also observed. Mr President! Municipalities often conclude fixed-term framework agreements on housing services, although this is not even required by legislation. Contracts could also be valid for an indefinite period, making the availability of housing services more guaranteed. The competitiveness of municipalities may be weak and this expertise should also be strengthened. In the future, the provinces will be responsible for organising social and health services. The future Freedom of Choice Act may be the solution to the competition problem, as it provides for a customer voucher to enable the customer to choose his own housing service. In this case, the procurement law would not have to be applied, as it would be a choice of customers rather than a purchase. The important thing is to ensure that the law works properly for everyone, and, for example, people with very severe disabilities could use a customer voucher in an assisted way. The authors of the citizens' initiative place emphasis on the poor quality of services. However, the Procurement Act requires the use of procurement criteria for competitive tendering, and in this respect it must be precise in terms of monitoring that the criteria are also successful. All in all, this citizens' initiative is good and necessary. People with disabilities are the largest and most discriminated against in the world. This is also the case in Finland, although they have done nothing about why this should be the case. Is it the case that merely being born a disabled person is sufficient reason to be discriminated against? This should not be the case in Finland if we are a civilised country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u212	Madam President! Firstly, I would like to thank the people who put this citizens' initiative in motion and, of course, all those who signed it. It is extremely important that we take care of the weakest and disabled people in society so that their lives are human estimates and good levels. It is a duty for all of us. The first point I draw attention to is precisely this implementation of the Procurement Directive. Of course, the directive imposed by the European Union has been implemented in Finnish legislation by means of a procurement law, and it has also been a very worthy report. So the legal basis in that sense is perfectly in order and there is nothing to blame. As far as these different competitions, which have put the services of people with disabilities on the market in different municipalities, I know from my own experience that in many cases they have been very successful and have produced a good result, but unfortunately there are also those competitions that have produced a bad result, very bad results for people with disabilities, and we must make every effort to get rid of these final results. It should be borne in mind that the municipality can, of course, pursue and operate its own activities in such a way as to provide, for example, service vouchers that enable disabled persons to obtain the services they need, limited their request for the service by the means they consider appropriate. I'm sure that's the best solution for everyone. And when we go into this new social reform which is coming, under the circumstances, when the use of service vouchers becomes much more common and legitimate in a fair way, it opens up the possibility that the service voucher can actually be used to the best possible extent. The most important factor in tendering for different services in municipalities, even for disabled people, is that calls for tenders are made well and thoroughly, highlighting the quality of the service. I have seen many invitations to tender that have really been handled well on top of the last one and the quality scores have been handled exemplaryly. Then the result has been a good one and a service has been created that the customer specifically wants. So, in many cases, in my view, procurement is a major reason for not having achieved the desired result, and the recipient of the service has then suffered from this poor competition and, in particular, from the quality criteria that have been applied. This is something that should be given more and more attention in the municipalities. For example, in my municipality of residence, expert service has been used to determine how these competitions are made and how their results will then be reviewed. It must always be remembered that in these public competitions, when it comes to tendering for services, there is also the possibility that the loss of competition will make it a complaint to the market law, and then we will be in trouble again when we have to wait for decisions. In other words, this is extremely important in this respect for municipalities to pay more attention to procurement skills. Another major factor affecting disability services and many other services, of course, is the economic situation of municipalities. I think that is too little attention in this debate. During this parliamentary term, the economic situation of municipalities has improved dramatically. At the moment, if I recall correctly, there are only a few of the so-called crisis settlements. Indeed, in the last three years, local government finances have recovered at a fierce pace. What I have read in the newspapers around Finland is that in almost all municipalities the economy is improving, municipalities have produced surpluses, which will then open up the possibility that the municipality can provide good quality services to its residents with its own money, its own cashier, who has been able to accumulate from a well-managed economy. And if I have understood correctly the information in the media today on how the country's economy is developing, it will still open up good opportunities for improving the services of municipalities and, for example, for providing services for people with disabilities with better starting points and providing good services for people with disabilities. It is extremely important to note now that the municipalities are indeed playing a key role and in the new reform of social welfare and health care, which is currently under discussion in this House, this issue of people with disabilities will certainly arise in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, as well as in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because it is a question of things that are our duty. And according to Article 19 of the Constitution, we must ensure high-quality social and health services for all people in Finland regardless of their home address — whether they live in Helsinki or Utsjoki, it does not matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u213	Mr President! I listened to this excellent debate in my office, and Mr Elovaara and Mr Salonen in particular spoke well. They asked how this could be so difficult, however, when it comes to human rights. And as representatives of Taavitsainen and Kiviranta may have mentioned, civilised society recognizes how people who need help are treated there. This should not be a political issue. This must be a question of human dignity and human rights, and I hope that this issue will not be a political debate but an agreement. If we want to, we can make this right. I think that Mr Essayah has made a good point about the options that we have here and now. I very much hope that we will move this issue forward together. But I would like to emphasise it again, as I said before, that this is about attitudes. As Chairman of the Memory Federation, I often come across the idea that a person with a memory disorder cannot be involved in making decisions, and that is not true. That is why, for example, the self-determination law currently under preparation is in a hurry. The law does not change attitudes, but it may be a tool to change these attitudes. Mr President! We should ask more about how to make the principles of this UN CRPD more effective in our society. After all, we are still a long way from real equality, and I, along with Mrs Karimäki, have proposed, in the form of a discussion initiative, that we should have a debate here in Parliament on the implementation of the rights of people with disabilities in Finland. I believe that this debate, which we have had here today, has shown that there is a need for this wider debate on the rights of people with disabilities. I hope so very much,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u214	Madam President! I would also like to emphasise the crucial role played by the way in this area. Indeed, it is through the finances of the municipalities that it goes away. That is what we all know from experience, for example in our own parliamentary term or as decision-makers in the municipalities, that a municipality that is financially bankrupt is not able to provide any kind of services. It is mainly the extinguishing of fires to remain an independent municipality. For this reason, attention should now also be paid to the fact that good financial management also guarantees good services for residents and, above all, for people with disabilities who are necessarily in need of those services. After all, the first measure of a civilised state is how we take care of our weakest. This should be remembered by all the Members of Parliament who work in this House, and of course the officials already know that. And it is good to remember that when municipal councils make annual decisions on the budget and the implementation of the budget are monitored, the municipality can, for example, in the middle of the year if there is a problem and the economy is in order, return to the matter and make an additional budget and put it in order. Here, of course, these squirms of the procurement law come before us, but whether they come or not, the services must be organised. For example, in my municipality of residence, a new nursing home called Onnela was built for disability services, where people can live independently and get the necessary help. It's a brand-new house, and we're just having the opening. I'm proud of it. Of course, it was an expensive building, but now you can say that people have excellent facilities there, where they can live and live a balanced life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-05-ps-30.u215	Madam President! To this end, I would like to support this point raised just now by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, this initiative for discussion which he and Mr Karimäki have taken. I think we have had a good debate today on disability policy in relation to these housing services and life-size services, but there are also a lot of other aspects and things that we should talk about together here and think about how we can guarantee disabled people access to work, access to education. Yesterday I myself went to Rinneko to see teachers and tutors of disabled schoolchildren, and there was a lot of discussion about how the right to further study, the right to work for young people with disabilities is being achieved and, unfortunately, they are not being very well realised at the moment. And it would be important for both this theme — education policy, work — and the life of people with disabilities to be discussed together, taking into account all these different aspects.
