ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Administrative Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion. Government presentations, 10 minutes, are made by the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Justice. The debate will then take place at a rapid pace, with group speeches of up to 5 minutes. Other pre-arranged speeches shall also take a maximum of 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. A debate on the 7th, 8th and 9th issues of the order of business will also be allowed in this context. The debate now begins with presentations by ministers, which are ten minutes long. First of all, Minister Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u2	Mr President! Finland’s security environment is changing at an accelerating pace. These changes relate above all to three phenomena. Firstly, the most serious threats to national security are increasingly related to events outside Finland. So security is becoming more international. The consequences of the threat of foreign origin and the threat arising there are also clearly more quickly visible in Finland than before when the phenomenon was born abroad. Secondly, security is increasingly being transferred to information networks. The report of the independent cybersecurity status, future and action group commissioned by the Government a year ago states that ‘the fight against cyber-intelligence is a national blind spot’ should seriously be considered. The fight against cyber intelligence is a national blind spot — something we cannot afford. Thirdly, external threats to national security are increasingly characterised by the existence of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, whose identification and separation are increasingly difficult, whose motives may be equally linked to the influence of Finnish decision-making, clearly damaging crime or even commercial intelligence. These changes in the security environment need to be addressed through timely updating of the competences of the safety authorities and improving the performance of the authorities, so that Finland will continue to be one of the safest countries in the world in the 2020s. Currently, the potential of Finnish society to respond to these growing threats is unfortunately in a significant imbalance with the damage and risks caused by the threat. The terrorism situation in Finland is closely linked to the international development of terrorism. Conflict areas play a key role in the development of radical Islamic terrorism. In recent years, the conflict area in Syria and Iraq in particular has served as a breeding ground for terrorism. Even now, when we are dealing with intelligence legislation here, it is estimated that dozens of people who have travelled from Finland are staying in the areas of terrorist cells in Syria and Iraq. The conflict area is also in the process of transformation right now following the loss of the majority of Isis' land, and as a result radical Islamic networks in Europe are also re-evaluating their activities. The protection police estimate that the threat of terrorism against Finland is now more serious than ever before. Plans and projects linked to the threat of terrorism, which have become known to the protection police, are also more concrete than before. Thus, the threat of terrorism in Finland has risen to the level of the other Nordic countries, and unfortunately we do not have the means to reduce this level of threat quickly. We must be able to prepare for the detection and rejection of individual projects. The change in Finland’s threat situation, if compared to our neighbouring countries, is also characterised by its speed. Of course, similar changes have taken place in other Nordic countries, such as Sweden, but this has taken place in a much longer term, and it has also been prepared in a long-term way. As a result of previous developments in the other Nordic countries, communication from Finland to Sweden and Germany, for example, is already over in their own filtered intelligence, when the time when Finnish communications would not be the subject of any inquiry, regardless of what we are here to decide. The number of target persons in the protection police’s fight against terrorism has also increased strongly in recent years. There are now some 370 of these people. The links with terrorist activities are also more direct than before. On the other hand, the fight against illegal intelligence, its traditional threat, has also become more difficult. The intelligence activities of foreign intelligence services are as active as ever, but more diverse. The protection police are aware of concrete cases of foreign states’ attempts to obtain secret sources of information from Finland to obtain information that is not publicly available. The intelligence organisations also seek to provide their assistants with people who can make a difference. Illegal intelligence by state bodies also harms Finnish companies, especially high-tech companies, and research institutes. At company level, activities can cause critical damage and potentially also have a very large economic impact on the future. Mr President! The importance of the cyber environment is growing, that is to say security is increasingly going online, and the use of cyber means to achieve political goals cannot be ruled out for Finland either. Cross-border espionage via telecommunications networks has become a major threat. The sabotage of information networks and the distortion of information are also practical realistic threats to Finland’s security. Cyber espionage information is used in the information war, for example by influencing the elections in France and the United States. According to an American social media company’s estimate, fake accounts in connection with the US presidential election made up to 80,000 updates that reached more than 12 million Americans — significant scales. There are, of course, closer examples, such as Estonia and Ukraine, which have been the subject of cyber-influencing, and whether the previous Ministry of Foreign Affairs, five years ago, has also been exposed to cyber-attacks and, unfortunately, it was only possible to detect this with resources today. Cyber attacks are a very dangerous threat for two reasons: appropriate technology is developing very rapidly and often involve representatives of organised crime and hackers with the help of state actors. The technical performance of the authorities must be better than the attacker. The powers needed to exercise performance must be based on the basis that threats are detected as early as possible, not after the damage has already occurred. If the authorities are only able to react when this has already happened, the vital functions of society will be at great risk. Telecommunications intelligence enables a proactive defence by monitoring the mapping and attack activities of state-owned cyber-spying missions, not only for their own country but also for other countries. For the most part, the knowledge and know-how needed to start up operations already exists. Thirdly, hybrid influence is already commonplace. In particular, it forms part of the efforts of the major powers and strong political or armed groups to increase their influence, disrupt the opposing party or achieve political objectives. The hybrid instruments of foreign countries are more diverse and relate, for example, to political, economic, infrastructure, information and culture. Unfortunately, the current criminal and personal powers in our legislation do not in every case have the opportunity to identify or combat cross-border hybrid threats which, however, could seriously jeopardise Finland's national security. That is why we must also enable a threat-based definition of competences. Mr President! The Government therefore proposes that civil intelligence be provided for on the basis of the above-mentioned strong criteria. The main objective of the new legislation is to improve national security on the one hand and to create a legal basis for intelligence on the other. The aim is to improve the possibilities of Finnish society to protect itself from the most serious threats to national security. These would be civilian intelligence targets, which are defined exhaustively at the level of the legislation. This is exceptionally clear and restrictive legislation compared to our Western neighbours, for example. The purpose of the new legislation would be to provide the necessary information, in particular on activities that seriously threaten national security, in support of decision-making and in order to protect security. Of course, the protection of fundamental rights has attracted considerable interest in the preparation of draft laws, and rightly so, and it has been very carefully sought to limit its intervention to the minimum required for intelligence efficiency and security in Finland. There is always ex ante control in the process. If telecommunications intelligence is introduced, it will be decided by the court. The protection police must always be able to demonstrate that this is a legitimate need to block action, to reveal it. It is also always necessary to inform the Intelligence Commissioner. In addition to this, real-time law enforcement by the Intelligence Commissioner ensures that Finland will not be allowed to solo accidentally in another way than the legislator intended. The intelligence officer would also be entitled to have access to all information in accordance with intelligence law, even the right to order the destruction of information which is not necessarily required in the sense of the law. It is also intended to provide for parliamentary control, which is in the hands of Parliament. Mr President! I therefore consider it necessary to bring in the legislation on intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u3	Madam President! As Minister Mykkänen said earlier, the Finnish security environment has changed. There's no way to go back. It is important that we are prepared for the security challenges our country may face. Intelligence is a key element in this process. Military intelligence legislation has been prepared in an exceptionally thorough and long-term manner. As early as December 2013, the Ministry of Defence set up a working group to develop legislation to improve the data acquisition capacity of security authorities in relation to cyber threats. The report of the working group called for consideration to be given to establishing a legal basis for intelligence activities. In accordance with the Government Programme, in October 2015, the Ministry of Defence set up a working group to prepare a proposal for military intelligence legislation. A parliamentary monitoring group was also set up for the legislative project of the ministries of Justice, Home Affairs and Defence, which met as many as 29 times. Such close contacts in the preparation of legislation between both the official machinery and the government and opposition parties are not everyday. The aim has been to emphasise the importance of the law for the security of our country and, on the other hand, to obtain the broadest possible views of the various parties already at the drafting stage of the law. All 72 respondents also considered it necessary to lay down military intelligence legislation. The preparation of the legislative packages has been carried out in a good spirit and, as far as possible, in the best possible way. Thank you for that, both industrious officials and representatives. Parliament's follow-up group led by Mr Töll. Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes a new law on military intelligence to monitor developments in the security environment and to provide information to support senior security management and military decision-making. Military intelligence gives advance warning of the military threat to Finland and supports other authorities. The Defence Forces would be given powers for personal intelligence and information system intelligence, radio signal intelligence and telecommunications intelligence. Military intelligence would provide information in Finland and abroad. The acquisition of data by new powers would significantly improve the ability of the military intelligence authority to inform the highest level of state management of changes in the Finnish security environment. Cooperation between military intelligence and protection police would be intensified, particularly in the field of telecommunications intelligence. The powers proposed in the Act relate, inter alia, to monitoring, data acquisition by technical means, cover and source operations, pseudo-purchase, and the blocking and copying of transmissions of messages. It should also be possible to conduct personal intelligence related to external threats in Finland. The methods of intelligence would be in line with the secret data-gathering mechanisms currently in place by the authorities. However, the conditions for exercising powers and the intended use would differ from criminal prevention. Telecommunications intelligence would be as targeted and limited as possible for Finland's cross-border communications services, and would always require the permission of the court, except in urgent situations. The proposed regulation would not make it possible to monitor all telecommunications in general, as the allocation of data intelligence is based on pre-defined precise criteria. Only a small part of the data traffic under the search conditions would be stored and unnecessary data deleted immediately. It is estimated that after automated screening, only about 0.02% of the data obtained under the search criteria would be processed by manual intelligence officers. So there is no question of mass control. Mr President! The impact of the proposal on public finances is due in particular to the strengthening of human resources and development activities in the field of operational intelligence. The costs of telecommunications intelligence consist mainly of reimbursement of costs to companies and equipment and data room rentals. The additional cost of the new tasks for the Defence Administration is estimated to be around EUR 10 million per year in the initial phase and to be around EUR 13 to 15 million in the future. The need for additional funding is set out in the normal budgetary procedure and in the budgetary plan. Part of the cost of military intelligence may be covered in the framework of the Defence Forces' development programmes. The telecommunications company has the right to receive compensation for the costs incurred in assisting the authority in accordance with current practice. The costs incurred by owners and holders of Finnish cross-border communications networks, as well as by the connection provider, would also be reimbursed. Mr President! The nature and acceptability of intelligence activities require increased legal control. Therefore, an intelligence supervisory authority would be established in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. Parliamentary control of intelligence is also part of the overall supervision. All permit cases concerning intelligence methods would be dealt with at the District Court of Helsinki. The Military Intelligence Authority would be obliged to inform the Intelligence Commissioner of the authorisation and decision of the intelligence methodology. The mandates of military intelligence provide the opportunity, rightly and in the event of national security being compromised, to intervene also in the protection of confidential messages and in private life. Military intelligence is organised in such a way as to comply with international human rights conventions and to the minimum to limit privacy. Particular attention must be paid to the adequacy of resources for effective judicial and parliamentary control. Mr President! I consider it necessary to bring the intelligence legislation into force as soon as possible. A key criterion is the need to bring the military intelligence system into line with the changed security environment. The change from the takeover of Crimea in 2014 and already since the crisis in Georgia in 2008 has been rapid and continues. At the same time, technology has developed strongly and military communications have moved from analogue to digital. As a result, critical intelligence without the powers of the new legislation will be very difficult to reach. At the moment, the foreign authorities are trying to target advanced cyber espionage on the Finnish government. Cyber attacks against security authorities have become commonplace. The law is meant to work for all Finns, not against any Finns. Its only objective is to increase the security of Finns. The same applies to the Civil Intelligence Act. We have long been lagging behind other Western countries in the development of intelligence legislation, and there is no longer any delay in this. If the Constitutional Committee considers that the amendment to the Constitution would be dealt with in an accelerated procedure, the provisions of the Intelligence Act could enter into force this year or from the beginning of next year. The work of the Parliamentary Monitoring Group has shown that all parties consider the bill important and necessary. So let us also bring it into force together as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u4	Mr President, ärade talman! Parliament has now been given a wide range of intelligence legislation to deal with. Firstly, it contains a draft amendment to the Constitution on the protection of the secret of a confidential message. It is a question of revising the Constitution in such a way that the ordinary law could provide for the acquisition of information in order to protect national security. Current Article 10 of the Constitution of Finland set strict international limits on the protection of confidential messages. Constitutional regulation is significantly more general in other countries. Many of our control countries have also recently introduced new legislation on intelligence, telecommunications intelligence and intelligence control, but these have not interfered with the provisions of the Constitution. In Finland, the Constitution specifically lays down the criteria under which the secret of a message can be restricted by ordinary law. However, the current criteria do not include data mining to protect national security. The current provisions returning to the reform of fundamental rights in 1995 only identify the legislative needs that were then, more than 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u7	Thank you. — Then we will go to group speeches, five minutes, and they will be started by a parliamentary group in the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u8	Mr President! It is also clear from what has just been said that even in a surprising modern world, the basis for security is the up-to-date and reliable information available to decision-makers and authorities. A well-functioning independent inquiry contributes to such information. The intelligence package is necessary to strengthen the security of our country. The lack of intelligence legislation is therefore quite exceptional at international level. Now it's going to be all right once and for all. In order to identify and combat threats to Finland, it is necessary to obtain information on military activities, terrorism or other activities that seriously threaten the security of citizens. In order to acquire information that serves national security, we must be independent and independent. It is a question of preventive action. At present, decision-makers and authorities do not have sufficient independent tools to ensure national security. They are either missing or incomplete, or we rely on foreign intelligence exchange. Military intelligence is not even regulated at the moment. In the field of civil intelligence, information can only be obtained if an individual person is suspected of a specific crime in Finland. We may be fatally late. Strengthening our own intelligence capacity also makes us a worthy partner internationally. Mr President! There is not going to be a police state in Finland and there must not be a police state, nor will there be any possible mass control of our legislation in the future, as has rightly been explained here in the ministers' speeches. The secret of a confidential message would be restricted as little as possible and only to the extent necessary. The monitoring of intelligence activities would consist of both parliamentary control and judicial control. Surveillance of intelligence activities shall be organised in such a way as to meet the requirements for effectiveness and independence of surveillance. This will help to ensure trust in the activities of the authorities in the future in a very sensitive area. Properly organised intelligence monitoring will ensure the implementation of fundamental and human rights, the appropriateness and proportionality of intelligence activities and the overall credibility of the system as a whole. It's about trust, let's say it another time. There has been positive experience of parliamentary follow-up led by Mr Töll, as Mr Niinistö has just said. This procedure should be continued in some form now that this matter is being put to the work of the committees. Mr President! In the parliamentary deliberations of the Intelligence Act package, the most important thing is to assess the relevant and effective boundaries of intelligence activities and the resources allocated to them. The aim must be a broad consensus on the objectives, criteria, implementation and control of the inquiry. The committees are faced with a thorough and very responsible task. National security is a matter of common concern. The central parliamentary group agrees with the government's idea that the legislative package could be put into effect as a matter of urgency, of course, at the discretion of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u9	Madam President! Technological and information developments will revolutionise the world more thoroughly and faster than we can grasp. News, thoughts, ideas, and all forms of human life move to the other side of the earth in real time and reach millions of people immediately. Global trade changes production, revolutionises livelihoods and enables goods and services to be transferred to markets that may not have been recognised in the past. The closer networking of the earth will bring unprecedented prosperity and prosperity. The upheavals in technology and information also contribute more effectively to the issue of human rights and democracy. The ability of dictators to keep their nations in the darkness of the news is becoming narrower and narrower. But this is only one side of the truth. The second is that the same technical instruments, which enable many new kinds of good, are also available to all those who are malicious. The same technological development that enables the fastest communication in the history of the world will also enable the same rapid dissemination of information and propaganda. The Internet will remove the obstacles to time and geography that previously restricted the activities of terrorist organisations. Electronic data transmission enables secret services in foreign countries to access sensitive and national security critical information that is unprecedented. Most Western countries have already responded to developments by introducing legislation to combat these threats to the changed technical environment. Finland has reacted more slowly to this change. It is high time that our legislation met the changed security threats. Those who do not need to care about legislation, such as criminal gangs, terrorist organisations and foreign intelligence services, exploit the full potential of existing technology without any shame even now, including in Finland. We must be able to meet this challenge by providing our own authorities with adequate tools to combat new threats. We are a long way behind, and there are therefore strong reasons for this. Mr President! In the rule of law, any use of public authority must be governed by law. This also applies to the powers of the authorities. At the same time, when the authorities are given sufficient powers to prevent the threat to our security, care must also be taken to ensure that they are not given more supervisory powers than is necessary to safeguard other fundamental rights. From the point of view of safeguarding fundamental rights, the key element of this legislative package is the proposal on intelligence control. It provides a framework for effective, efficient and independent supervision of intelligence authorities. The intelligence activities referred to in the law may only be carried out by a court order. The activities will be supervised by an intelligence officer who will be given an exceptionally strong status as a law enforcement officer. In addition, all this is complemented by the Parliamentary Committee on Intelligence. Privacy protection has been secured in this package of laws carefully and the powers of intelligence have been strictly and strictly regulated. Mr President! Intelligence legislation has been carefully and earnestly prepared. So it should be when it comes to such a significant set of laws. It is important that the parliamentary procedure is also given the time it needs. But there is no time to lose. At the moment, we are largely dependent on the goodwill of other countries to obtain intelligence. Partners are important, but outsourcing national security to the goodwill of foreign states is dangerous. Furthermore, national security is not — and must not be — a party political dispute. Action that threatens national security does not come about in a vacuum or in a moment. Common - day - to - day attacks are often planned even years before they are carried out. The fight against them is undoubtedly in the interests of all the parliamentary parties. The Parliamentary Group of the National Coalition Party calls for the broadest possible parliamentary support for the adoption of intelligence laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u10	Mr President! Finland needs new, up-to-date intelligence legislation. Because of the changes that have taken place in our security environment and the new threats that have arisen, we need legislation that strengthens our security but at the same time respects the fundamental rights of our citizens. Intelligence legislation as a whole must be carefully prepared and respect the principles of the rule of law. Particular attention must be paid to the realisation of citizens' fundamental rights, such as the protection of private life and communications. We look the facts in the eye. The threat of terrorism and political extremism also affects us Finns. Those who threaten our national security, whether they are individuals or national actors, must know that we are vigilant and also defend our rights. At the same time, citizens must be able to count on national security not to create a general prying machine or a police state. That is why the Socialist Group in Parliament supports a package of laws in which citizens' rights to security and privacy are balanced. We require sufficient time for the parliamentary procedure of the laws and a great deal of care in the committees. Mr President! The Government's Intelligence Act package, almost 1000 pages, still contains open questions, all of which must be answered in committee. I would now like to raise two important points for our parliamentary group: Our first requirement is that the legislation adopted by Parliament is precise and precise and must not allow untargeted mass control of Finnish communications. We also want to be sure that the proposed constitutional amendment does not aim in future to restrict civil rights in the order in which the ordinary law is enacted. Secondly, the whole operation of the aid should be subject to proper parliamentary control as a whole. [Left: Point!] Mr President! The Government has announced its intention to enforce intelligence legislation in Parliament in an urgent constitutional order. We Social Democrats are now focusing on the fact that the proposal guarantees the fundamental rights of citizens, provides effective control to the intelligence institutions and finds a broad parliamentary consensus on the content of the reform. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs must allow its assessment of the order of regulation to be carried out in peace. The urgency will be decided when the package is in place and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has had the opportunity to take a position. So things set a schedule, not the other way around. Here again, the wheel should not be put in front of the horse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u11	Mr President! ‘Initial recognition of the The world has changed rapidly around us. This change requires certain measures and a rapid response from us. That is a fact that must now be acknowledged. We blues want to protect the security of the nation and the state. We need to anticipate better the threats to our country, and we cannot rely solely on the knowledge that friends from the world convey to us of their goodness. We have been fortunate to live in a country that is one of the most stable in the world. We have a western border that has been praised as the most peaceful border in the world. In this respect, we are Europe's pioneers, because the Finnish-Swedish border has been open to trade and employment long before the EU and its internal border policy. Our eastern border, on the other hand, has long been one of the most closely monitored in the world. On both sides and in other directions, our affairs have been between very good neighbours, and perhaps too much has been lulled into that sleep. We may have thought that people, thoughts or things are moving towards a world without borders, a world where nothing is controlled, everything flows freely. We have found that the illusion of an unlimited and uncontrolled world is only an illusion: an illusion that is dangerous for the security of the state and people. New forms of warfare, international terrorism, the tightening of the political climate in Finland's neighbouring areas, the Baltic Sea and the Arctic force us to act for our own benefit. Mr President! Finland’s security environment has deteriorated. The situation in Eastern Ukraine and the development of the Russian armed forces have placed new demands on Finland's defence capability. Military readiness has been developed during this reign. It is now time to modernise military intelligence legislation to reflect the present. The mission of military intelligence is to produce sufficiently proactive information on military threats to Finland and to monitor the development of the Finnish security environment. The intelligence obtained will be used to support the decision-making of the Supreme Government. It is not used in vain, nor is it necessary for an ordinary man of math to fear that his own data will somehow fall into the wrong ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u14	Mr President! True Finns welcome the reform of intelligence laws. We consider it necessary to bring legislation in line with changes in the Finnish security situation. Terrorism and other international crime and cybersecurity threats have become part of our society. The laws increase the powers of intelligence and the protection police, but it must be borne in mind that international crime can also be combated by more concrete means. In the implementation of the intelligence law, due consideration must be given to privacy in order to maintain the trust of both Finnish citizens and companies. The intelligence package is accompanied by an exceptional procedure, i.e. an urgent declaration that has not been used once in the current constitution. The Minister of Justice has assessed that the criteria for the procedure are met, although the Supreme Legal Officers consider that the grounds for urgency are partly inadequate. A change in the Constitution would be necessary if the law were to be adopted in its planned form. This requires broad understanding and acceptance, i.e. primarily by a qualified majority of five-sixths and then by a majority of two thirds. Using such a cumbersome procedure, the entry into force of the Intelligence Act would only be delayed by about a year. Constitutional changes are usually made in two parliaments. If the threshold for amending the Constitution is lowered, its role in society may deteriorate and serve as a precedent for the enforcement of other legislation in the future. True Finns require consideration when assessing the urgency of the legislative package. There are also constitutional problems with an exceptional arrangement. The Constitution sets out the way in which secondary legislation is produced and binds its content. If the Constitution is amended because this package of laws can be declared urgent, it means that the content of the Constitution is covered by lower-level acts. There are restrictions on the mandatory nature of legislation, since in the event of a conflict, the lower level of legislation should be ignored. In the past, the government has had problems with the Constitution in the area of social and regional reform. The Finns are concerned whether the political preparation of the government will give sufficient weight to the leading legislative experts and constitutional researchers in our country. [Left: Good question!] A temporary derogation from the Constitution could possibly be used instead of amending the Constitution. At that time, contradictions with the Constitution would continue to require this qualified majority of five-sixths, which would mean that the challenges of privacy could be properly addressed. This is of paramount importance for the reform of the Civil Intelligence Act, which interferes with the privacy of Article 10 of the Constitution. However, intelligence alone, although important, is insufficient to protect citizens from international crime. For example, terrorism could be combated more effectively if the government implemented its own 80-point asylum policy programme. The implementation of this programme could open up avenues for proper implementation of intelligence legislation, timetable and cooperation. There are many good examples in the Nordic countries and elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u15	Mr President! As previous speakers have already said, intelligence laws are exceptionally broad and important. Although most of the intelligence methods are familiar with the law of coercion, the use of intelligence methods does not require a crime or a criminal, but poses a serious threat to national security. The public debate has focused on telecommunications intelligence, which has been feared to expand into mass control. This is a pity, because although telecommunications intelligence is an important issue, it is only one of the more than 20 methods of intelligence presented, six of which require a change of constitution and each of them deserves as thorough a debate as telecommunications intelligence. Mr President! We Greens often reproached the government for its poor preparation. Now, however, the government must be commended. As a member of the parliamentary working group that followed the preparation, I can prove that the preparation of intelligence laws has been slow. The concerns expressed by the opposition have also been heard and not subjected to party politics. I trust that this line will continue in Parliament as well. Many have said that Finland is lagging behind other countries. On the other hand, Finland can now learn from the mistakes of others. For example, the so-called FRA law in Sweden had to be tightened up because it violated privacy too much. We can also learn from the decisions taken by the European Court of Human Rights on intelligence laws in other countries. Those main lessons concern the supervision of intelligence agencies. The Greens defend not only the safety of Finns but also their freedoms and rights. Regrettably, there are many examples of misuse of intelligence powers in the world. These abuses have also been reflected in the Finnish debate when circumventing the law has been regarded as a characteristic behavior of intelligence authorities. Finland is used to trusting the authorities, but luckily, the case Jari Aarnio has awakened us from too much naivety, and not even Mrs Zyskowicz shouts: “Doesn’t the representative trust the Finnish police? “ In the field of intelligence, internal control is not enough, but genuinely independent external control is needed. We could therefore also consider the right of the intelligence officer to test the operation of the court issuing the warrants with false requests for a warrant. Mr President! I used to think that national security would be too foolish a basis for powers restricting civil rights. Unfortunately, the fact that the Finnish authorities are not allowed to inquire does not protect us from prying, on the contrary it only facilitates the operation of foreign intelligence services in Finland. Or, as Mr Mykkänen said, the fight against cyber intelligence is a national blind spot. Finland’s security environment has indeed changed. Military activity in the vicinity of Finland has increased, the communication of weapons systems has shifted from radio waves to information networks, cyber attacks and hybrid operations have obscured the border between war and peace, and criminal and terrorist organisations have also moved online. We must not justify the inquiry with unjustified threats, but we must also not promise unwarranted security. No reconnaissance is complete. If we forget this, we will call upon the security authorities to give more authority whenever something bad happens, we imagine that they will protect us from anything we can think of. No, they won't. For example, there are terrorist attacks in China, even though the Chinese authorities have very large powers and huge resources. Nor must we allow terrorism to blind us to the fact that there are 7 on the civilian intelligence threat list and 11 on the military intelligence threat to national security. I trust that the seriousness and threat of all of them, not just terrorism, will be critically assessed in committee hearings. The disclosure of information to other authorities and foreign intelligence services also deserves thorough processing. Mr President! Indeed, six methods of intelligence require a change to the Constitution, which in itself is exceptional. The Constitution has even been proposed to be amended as a matter of urgency, which is exceptionally exceptional. We Greens await the conclusions of the expert consultations with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The burden of proof lies with the author of the constitutional amendment. We will only form our final position on the basis of the consultations. We must be careful not to violate the fundamental values of Finnish society that we use these intelligence laws to defend.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u16	Mr President! Parliament received an exceptionally important legislative package to assess the relationship between fundamental rights and the security of citizens and society. The Monitoring Group worked closely together, but there were also open questions, first of all the timetable for processing and the amendment of the Constitution. During the preparatory process, an image has been created of the necessity and threat that require a change of constitution in an accelerated order. The threshold for amending the Constitution must be high. Even if a change is made in the so-called normal order, the entry into force of the laws will not necessarily be delayed for more than a few months. If a violent act took place in Finland during that period — and even if it had nothing to do with the content of these government proposals or with the timetable for processing — the perpetrators have already been considered. In this way security machinery will also put pressure on democratically elected decision-makers. However, even in countries with extensive mass control rights there are violent attacks. The often repeated phrase, "What does an honest citizen have to fear?" In contrast, the question must be raised as to why the honest citizen should be monitored. The vast powers of the authorities also apply to those law-abiding citizens, even if they do not know that they are under control. Mr President! The legislation must be reformed. Security machinery must have appropriate and effective tools to identify and prevent threats. But the rules of the game must be clear and as transparent as possible. The fundamental rights of citizens and the characteristics of a democratic society, such as free information and source protection, must always be remembered. The organisations to which power and power have been given must be monitored. Even before that, there has been criticism, or rather a lack, of the supervision of the protection police. The powers of the protection police are now significantly expanded, while the resources of civilian and military intelligence are being increased. A unit of the Intelligence Ombudsman and a Committee on Intelligence Supervision will be set up to counterbalance this. They will not be able to carry out the task they are assigned with the resources envisaged. The situation in which the protection police assess the eligibility of the people who control its activities, such as members of the parliamentary committee, is also strange to democracy. Mr President! The concepts justifying the strong powers of the authorities must be as precise as possible. 'National security', 'national interest','serious threats to national security' or'society threats','shall be left to the public. Finns are a people of authority. The valuation of the authorities is based on the fact that they have an acceptable objective, that exceptional measures are necessary and that the activities are strictly and precisely regulated. Mr President! Intelligence is a politically sensitive area. In intelligence operations, information is exchanged, stolen, purchased and sold. Now Finnish intelligence organizations are getting a whole new game field. Finland is an internationally interesting country. The laws also allow foreign intelligence services to operate in Finland. What kind of information does Finland provide, and by what means does Finland receive information collected from others? In the final analysis, one person is responsible for providing information abroad. The President of the Republic and the Committee of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy will be informed only afterwards, if any. Democratic control is therefore also important that such trade does not harm Finland’s national interest in foreign and security policy or reduce national mobility. The parliamentary committees have a demanding role to play in assessing the pros and cons of government performances, which is why time has to be given to the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u17	Värderade fru talman, Madam President! The task of intelligence laws is very clear: to create stability in this society and to enable the authorities to protect this people and this country. The greatest threat is the threat we don't know or recognize. With military and civilian intelligence, we can prepare for this. At the moment we do not have enough tools at our disposal, and with the reform of the intelligence laws we are tackling this problem. That is why our parliamentary group is in favour of reforming these laws. The committees now have a big piece of work ahead of them. It is our responsibility to give them peace of work. In due course, we will take a position on the content and order of business of the reform. We in this Parliament must be able to have a passionate debate on this issue and to consider what the proposed laws can lead to in practice and whether there is still a need for changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u18	Madam President! The intelligence laws must be implemented in a timely manner. The Christian Democratic Parliament supports the urgent amendment of the Constitution proposed by the government. National security is not the place for a political game. [Right :Ein! ] The preparation of the legislative package has been thorough and thorough. The preparatory work was launched on a joint proposal from the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence by the decision of the Ministry of the Interior in 2013 already during the last parliamentary term, and a working group on data acquisition law was also set up, which finalised the proposals as guidelines for intelligence legislation. On this basis, the Sipilä Government has continued its preparations and the proposals have been discussed closely by the representative The parliamentary follow-up group led by Mr Töll. The ‘mass control’ or ‘preservation law’ is a Telecommunications intelligence is behind many thresholds. It can only be used on the basis of a serious threat to national security. So it would not be just any crime, but very serious threats. A requirement for a non-state actor is the necessity, i.e. the last resort of the intelligence method, where there is no other way to identify the threat. The use would require permission from the court. Only a small part of the data traffic would end up in storage and analysis with targeted search criteria. The search conditions would not apply to the content of the message but to its technical information. The authorities are not interested and have neither the authority nor the resources to pry through the communications of ordinary citizens. The legislative package takes careful account of the high level of security of citizens' communications secrecy. The presentation clearly sets out the conditions and conditions under which a person may be subject to surveillance. An exceptionally strong supervisory body will be created in the field of intelligence control — an intelligence officer with extensive powers, including the right to suspend an investigation and a parliamentary control committee. These will certainly provide a strong basis for the admissibility of intelligence legislation among the public. It is important that all parliamentary groups are represented under parliamentary control. The development of intelligence would raise the threshold for cyber-spying in our country, which would also increase the safety of business and non-governmental organisations. Mr President! Such powers are now in place in other Nordic countries, as well as in almost all European countries. In Sweden, the authorities have reported that they have been able to prevent terrorist attacks by means of telecommunications intelligence. The authorities of our neighbouring countries therefore have the opportunity to inquire about the cross-border traffic in Finland, and through this we have also been helped to resolve our own threats. Why not trust these powers with the security authorities of our own country? In the investigation of the August terrorist act in Turku, the suspect’s phone and computer’s browsing history have revealed his radicalisation. The authorities had been informed of this, but there was no way to find out what was going on. The tragedy in Turku could possibly have been prevented by better intelligence powers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u19	Group speeches have now been made, and I now give ministers up to two minutes per minister and place. Minister Mykkänen will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u20	Mr President! Thank you to the group speakers for a meaningful and relevant debate. This is indeed a place where Parliament should go through the motions thoroughly and weigh up the way in which they are carried forward. This is an important issue in which we hope to find a truly broad national consensus. There's a few things I'm dealing with. In this respect, I believe that some representatives are still unduly spreading the fear of some kind of mass control, it would be a matter of prying the ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u23	Next up, Minister Niinistö, two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u24	Madam President! Thank you very much to all the parliamentary groups for their constructive contributions. Of course, there were also constructive criticisms, as is the case. The legislative package is a whole package, and it has been carefully and earnestly prepared, but it is certainly a very large package, so sufficient time should be set aside for committee work. I believe that the committee will provide answers to questions, particularly those relating to the protection of privacy. As far as the issue of urgency is concerned, I urge the critical representatives to bear in mind their responsibilities. The risk increases that security threats to Finland will not be identified in time. As Mr Räsänen rightly said: who will take responsibility if something happens?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u27	Mr President! The Finnish judicial system is also being tested pretty hard at the moment. We're in a place where we have to face facts. The changed security environment requires that the state's most important role, namely the security of its citizens, can be promoted through appropriate, modern powers, but at the same time in a balanced way, so that the citizens' other fundamental rights under the Constitution and international treaties can be properly exercised. In other words, in this debate around the core principles of security and the rule of law, Finland should now be able to demonstrate that we are able to promote security in such a way that we continue to maintain the core principles of our legal system strongly. When we talk about amending the Constitution, we must always take it very seriously, and that is why it is good that we have a very thorough, analytical debate on this. In Finland, the Constitution is not changed lightly. There must also be an analytical debate on this, not just at the title level, that national security requires, or that at the title level it is said that the prying law. In other words, analysing deep structures, providing citizens and decision-makers with detailed, appropriate information. This package of laws requires precision and precision. That's the only way to use the powers. Similarly, the monitoring system is certainly one of the most effective in international comparisons. In other words, the control system has preventive control, real-time surveillance and a strong ex-post supervisor. And in addition to this, these overseers are also monitored.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u28	Now we are going to launch a debate, which I shall begin by giving the floor to the chairman of the parliamentary working group on intelligence control, Mr Töll — on the spot, for a maximum of two minutes. After that, we will take the floor for a one-minute debate — you have already got up there, and we have marked you those who want to go up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u29	Mr President! Safety is a key cornerstone and hallmark of the welfare society. In order to keep this cornerstone in place and to be able to support it, that is why this great package of laws is here in Parliament. It is vital that the government and other responsible parties are well aware of the current security situation and security threats in order to be able to act. When new powers are given to the intelligence authorities, it is not an end in itself. It's not for the crab. It's for us. This must be remembered: it is not an end in itself. At this stage, I would like to thank the members of the monitoring group and the officials and ministries for the very good and transparent preparation that has been made here. I would like to raise a few points here: This is an essential part of the control we have been talking about here. Law enforcement is exceptionally strict. There's a new legal authority, an intelligence officer. In addition, we still have the Chancellor of Justice, the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Data Protection Ombudsman, whose powers are not diminished. And the powers of the Parliamentary Committee on Intelligence are very wide. They concern the entire inquiry, in the same way as this law enforcement officer, and there is a clear link here. I hope that, during this debate, Parliament will look carefully at these details and not go out in public and run images, but get to know the facts. Now it seems that there is some very colored information. Finally, I would like to say that this is not a government-opposition setting, but it is built for the future, for our children and grandchildren, so that this whole system can be trusted. This is not subject to political conjunctivities, and that is why this control system must be, and is, as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u30	Then we go to those 1 minute debut speeches, and you still have time to book by standing up and pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u31	Mr President! After Mr Töll has spoken, it is good to continue. In my opinion, this debate has highlighted a certain degree of appeal towards unanimity, and cooperation in the follow-up to this big, serious and important issue is a good sign. This is a serious issue, and it is necessary to emphasise in such a referral debate that it is not too much to politicise this important, big issue. This is an opportunity to cross the government-opposition line with a fair debate. This is a common matter, and this has gone well, with the help of the Parliamentary Monitoring Group, so far, and it is hoped that this same climate of confidence will mark the committee's deliberations. This is a matter of urgency in a certain way, but it is not a rash matter. We must not rush this forward, there is no panic, but there is a certain rush, because we cannot rely on others in these matters, but we must also have our own independent, strong inquiry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u32	Madam President! In no way has this legislative package been taken forward by haste. If we take a historical look at this, as early as 2013, UTUVA stated that work on the development of Finnish legislation will begin immediately. The data acquisition law working group was in place from 2014 to Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government Programme stated that the legal basis for foreign intelligence and telecommunications intelligence will be presented and that the implementation of fundamental and human rights will be considered. The legislative groups of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice were set up in 2015. The Parliamentary Monitoring Group worked until the end of last year. Constitutional experts have been consulted and the consultation has taken place. All commentators considered that military intelligence legislation was necessary. Work has been done with care, and the parliamentary procedure must also be carefully carried out, but thorough work has been done, and hopefully it will also be reflected in parliamentary agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u33	Madam President! Mr Mykkänen, you said that it is even a matter of spreading fear — but not. It was just a proper question in relation to this mass control. We want to ensure that legislation is sufficiently precise and that such untargeted mass control does not occur. I am sure that we will come back to these matters several times in the course of committee consultations and opinions. But I'd like to ask you about the role of the protection police. The protection police are now moving from the police organization to the intelligence organization. Will this parliamentary scrutiny now be carried out in respect of all the tasks of the protection police — as I put a few quotations here from the ministers ’ speeches — or will it be just these increasing powers? This should certainly be the view of the government in this debate, especially with three ministers on board.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u34	Madam President! Since 2013, a great deal has happened in the world since the beginning of preparations for this issue. The situation in Eastern Ukraine has come up, we have seen a direct international migration to Europe, we have seen influence on the elections in the United States, we have many new phenomena that have never existed before, at least not on this scale. And then there is the situation that, quite rightly, privacy is being weighed against the security of citizens, and that is all right, and that is also the fact that we have the freedom of communication and so forth. But, in principle, I see this current situation in this way, that we currently have a free field for foreign countries to act in Finland, and if that is a problematic situation for our communication, for the communication of individual citizens at such a principle level. By improving national capacity, it is more likely to contribute to our privacy and communication opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u35	Mr President! This is where the representatives of the Centre Party, in their own rhetorical speeches, stressed that there is no government-oppositional arrangement. I agree exactly that the Finns of Peru are warmhearted about the changes to this intelligence law, that in this respect a common value base has been found again. However, I would like to ask whether there was at any point in the debate and in the ideas that such a temporary derogation could be used instead of amending the Constitution in the Constitution, in a way to achieve all the benefits that are now being sought, but then, if there had come and, in general — and later it would be discovered — these runaway defects, if there had been such a procedure, then they would have been able to be dismantled as normal legislation and would not have required such a broad procedure. This is what I'm asking you. Was there at any point?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u36	Mr President! Indeed, an independent external supervisory authority is being set up to monitor the use of intelligence methods, and that is a good thing. However, it is to a large extent the same methods of obtaining information as the coercive measures used in the investigation and prevention of criminal offences. The use of these coercive measures does not have an equivalent independent supervisor, although serious deficiencies have been identified in their authorisation and use. Internal surveillance has failed. I would ask Justice Minister Häkkkäs: could the use of the law on coercive measures also be subject to consideration of a judicial authority similar to the intelligence officer?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u37	Mr President! I am absolutely convinced that the members of the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group have perhaps become more familiar with these government proposals than the average. We have not formed our position on any whim or chance, but on the basis of a lengthy process and weighing, so that such inappropriate stigmatisation is in vain. Then on these substantive issues: What about the person being followed, who is being investigated, and the person does not know that he should know? There is no reporting obligation for all these methods and that reporting obligation can also be deferred. How can such a person control his own interests that do not know that he should know? Then on this role as a protection police officer: perhaps the Minister of Justice would be the right person to wonder whether it is strange that the organisation selects the members of this spy committee, at least through a loop, or evaluates their qualifications and then this committee will be supervised by its reviewer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u38	Värderade fru talman! Underrättelseombudsmannen ska vara en myndighet med faktisk vöjlighet och tillräckliga resurser för att övervaka att underrättelseverksemheten går rätt till och vid behov kunna ingripa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u39	Madam Speaker! As a member of the Parliamentary Monitoring Group, it has to be said that the discussion there has been very good-minded and careful, and that is why I am confident that there will also be a full opportunity here in the parliamentary committees to proceed in the same spirit. In order for citizens to have a high level of confidence in intelligence control, it is important that all political ideas are represented in this Committee, because they deal with confidential matters which cannot be shared, for example, by the Parliamentary plenary or parliamentary groups. There was also a clear will for this in the parliamentary monitoring group. However, this has not been mentioned in the articles or explanatory memorandum of the draft law, and I therefore hope that the committees in their reports will pay particular attention to this. It would be good to have
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u40	Mr President! This is indeed the most important piece of post-war legislation which radically alters our approach to communication secrecy. The reasons have been explained here on various occasions. It is clear that when the protection police and military intelligence together report enough 150 people to do this research and follow-up, it is no longer quite small — 150. That is why this monitoring must be very precise that this information is used correctly, as indicated and is only done where there are reasonable grounds for doing so. This relates to the activities of the protection police, which have been discussed for a long time, how to improve the monitoring of the aid, that confidence in it is maintained in all circumstances. I think it is absolutely essential that the supervision of the protection police in this context be resolved in a permanent manner so that confidence in this organisation can be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u41	Mr President! Of course, tomorrow's battlefield will be in hybrid operations. It is in the information war, it is in the development of technology and cyber operations, all of which are at present bound by intelligence — intelligence that is highly dependent and based on various digital networks today. All of this means that we, for our part, must act in a way in which the defence of Finland begins at a considerable distance from the borders of Finland. This is a demanding and big issue, where the primary focus must be on safeguarding the interests of Finland, protecting Finns, while at the same time considering that it is done in a way that concerns the principles of human rights and the personal integrity of people. It's about big interests. Cybercrime is bigger today than drug crime in the world or trafficking in human beings. And they are so huge that an open society such as Finland must have effective systems of defence and action to protect Finns. The mainstream of evil is very strong,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u42	Mr President! Intelligence needs legal rules. The need for legislative reform is obvious and I believe that this view will be signed by the majority of parliamentarians. At the same time, it is very important for us Greens to take care of the fundamental rights of our citizens. Amendment of the Constitution is an exception. The urgent amendment of the Constitution is an exception to the exception. The Greens call for a very strong and identified reason for these exceptions. General security concerns alone are not enough, and the burden of proof lies with the government. It is also the case that the issue of timetables must not be taken away from the primary debate on content. Patience is always an asset, as is the case here, and questions must be answered. Instead of being lost, we must first examine carefully, and in many respects this has been done. I would like to ask you a few questions that I would like to have some answers to. Firstly, how to ensure the accuracy of court proceedings and the adequacy of court proceedings
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u43	Mr President! I think it is very important that this whole set of intelligence legislation should now be brought forward, and in such a way that the security of citizens can also be guaranteed. It is also important that we find a balance here from the point of view of fundamental rights, particularly communications secrecy. All this, as Mr Heinäluoma described this change, must be backed up by clear parliamentary control, which is now being directed specifically at the protection police as a whole. Now that there has been some confusion in this debate as to what the government means by this parliamentary control in relation to the subsidy, I would like to ask Minister Mykkäs and Minister Häkkkäs: How is this whole contribution intended to be implemented? Is it about the whole thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u44	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen, no one here has claimed that the purpose of intelligence powers is to monitor ordinary citizens. But you, as Minister, cannot say here that the messages of ordinary citizens cannot come under the scope of intelligence, because this can and will also be the case with these powers of intelligence, and this must also be said fairly in the spirit of open debate. As far as the right of citizens to information is concerned, this system has now been built in such a way that, if communication is subject to the obligation of destruction — that is, communication between two people in Finland, communication within the protection of sources or communication that is irrelevant to national security — then this information will be destroyed and the subject will not be informed that this message has been opened within the framework of intelligence. So, Mr Mykkänen, do you think that the right of citizens to information is such a sufficient level, because this means that there will be no information about the Huds against innocent citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u45	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det är alldeles klart att vi behöver en ny spaningslagstiftning i Finland. Vi ligger effecter, och vi kan inte tro att världen är så god att vi inte skulle behöva uppdatera oss till en modern nivå. Det måste vi göra. Men, värderade talman, frågan är också om det finns tillräckliga argument för att det arv nu ska behandlas i brådskande ordning.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u46	Mr President! The security threats facing Finland and its citizens must be resolved in time, which is obvious. After all, Finland is not a bird shelter, and Parliament must increase the powers to obtain information. However, it should be asked that when a draft law provides for a breach of the confidentiality of communications in the case of activities that seriously threaten national security, whether it would be appropriate to consider whether the increase in civil intelligence could be further limited, for example, to cover only terrorism, violent threats or state fraud. In this case, we could rule out the theoretical situation of using the article to restrict freedom of opinion. Although we now feel that this will not happen, society will change and at different times this law will mean different things. And I myself am concerned about whether this could be misused at a later theoretical level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u47	Madam President! When action takes place behind the screen of secrets, control and control must be in order. Data acquisition control systems are essential for the implementation of fundamental rights and there must be resources to monitor the legality of intelligence activities closely, even for each individual request to the court. The protection police must also be subject to extensive parliamentary control, in accordance with normal Western practice, and the division of duties between judicial and parliamentary control must be clear. I think that this proposal must now be clearly borne in mind that, first of all, this content must be in good order and then the urgency of this proposal must be assessed. And here we are, hopefully, all giving the Constitutional Committee some peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u48	Mr President! First of all, thank you, Congressman. To the can for a good job, thank you very much. There is little time available here, so I will draw attention to just one thing, that is, how the aid will then be monitored. Up until now, in this House, many committees, half a dozen committees, have monitored the aid. It has to be said that this control has been very poor and even important issues have not come to the attention of the committees. Well, it is now a question of this control being passed on to the Committee on Intelligence, which will then be able to take a closer look at these questions, but I would stress that it is also a matter of secrecy. That information is not leaking out of there. Now I am raising the question of – and this must now be considered here in Parliament in the various committees and in the Constitutional Committee – how to guarantee that these committees which have been informed so far will also be informed in the future, and in what way, with what degree of secrecy and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u49	Madam President! The main task of the state is to ensure the safety of its citizens, and that is why the government has given Parliament a package of intelligence legislation, and I would like to express my warm thanks for that. This would have been necessary much earlier, as has been said here, but I hope that we will actually find a process to bring this to an end during this parliamentary term, because there is no doubt that we need it in this situation. In public debate, this intelligence legislation is often linked to mass surveillance, which means monitoring all telecommunications. However, the intelligence law now before Parliament does not allow unallocated and comprehensive mass control. I think that this mistake must now be borne in mind that we ourselves are not spreading information that is not true. Why do we create threats that are not covered? That is why we are all now responsible for telling the truth about this, and I hope once again that agreement will be reached here, because it will be a question of ensuring the safety of our citizens in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u50	Mr President! Representative In his own speech, Mr Tölli hit the heart of the matter. Security comes as a sum of many things. For example, tackling the root causes of social threats is very important. People who are basically satisfied with their lives and trust in their society do not feel the need to harm their community. But national and public security today does not depend solely on how we build a good society. In a complicated world, national security and therefore the security of our citizens must be strengthened against the threats that can be improved by the legislation now under discussion. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I cannot fail to respond to the concern expressed here that the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would be politicised in dealing with this law. In my own group, at least, it is a tradition to listen to experts in the assessment of constitutional aspects, to weigh all the aspects of the whole and to decide on the follow-up. Finland needs a balanced
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u51	Madam President! As pointed out in that group statement by the Christian Democrats, our group supports the speedy enforcement of these laws. During the last term of government, the ministers of the Christian Democrats and the RKP tried to push these laws forward, but the regime's power relations at that time did not allow. The Minister of Justice very well explained that relations between the supreme judicial officers and then the special advisers will be maintained, but I would have liked to ask the Minister of Justice: do you see that there could be some kind of clarification of the border crossing in the offices of, for example, the Data Protection Officer and then the Intelligence Commissioner, because, as I understand it at the moment, the Data Protection Ombudsman also has an indirect right of inspection of the information systems of both the protection police and the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u52	Mr President! At the very beginning, I would like to thank all those who have been involved in this process, that is, the parliamentary work has followed this reform well. But the problem is that this parliamentary group has not had the power to direct this reform and there are still issues open to it. I think it would be honest in this debate to admit that where intelligence legislation is needed in this country, this work must also be done carefully so that we know what we are doing. There is a need to find clear limits and precision for intelligence through consensus, and these issues need to be further refined in this process. And anyone who dares to say that this work has already been done will surely be mistaken in the fact that there are still a lot of parts of this whole that are absolutely crucial to control, because in this context we must ensure that individual authorities, individual individuals, are not given too much power over fundamental human rights. We've got to work on this pattern.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u53	Madam President! There are strong arguments for the renewal of intelligence laws, and this package of legislative proposals has improved significantly along the way, after parliamentary work has been carried out, although many questions of course still exist. I would stress that we are now giving the committees time to do the work properly, to consult all the experts and then draw conclusions so that we can make these laws as watertight as possible. In such a detail I would be missing that, when the information network inquiry is justified, tragic cases such as the stabbings in Turku should not be used as an example, because, for example, six months in advance had already been reported to the police, and it might have been possible to prevent a case if it had been dealt with in a traditional way. But this is a detail. What is essential now is that we learn from the situations in other countries and that we get to Finland intelligence laws that are watertight.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u54	Madam President! The phenomenon of visitors, illegal espionage against Finland, cyber espionage and hybrid influence are only one example of the threats to Finland’s national security. In many speeches today, it has been well pointed out that Finnish intelligence legislation is far behind other European countries and we are far too dependent on intelligence from other countries. We urgently need this set of intelligence legislation and also urgently, and I would like to ask the ministers on the ground: how problematic do you see that this proposed package is not being carried through as a matter of urgency, and how does it affect the timetables of the legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u55	Mr President! Finland needs up-to-date intelligence legislation. The right of the citizen to security and privacy, the balance between these two fundamental rights, is now at stake. I believe that there is a common understanding in this Chamber, as it has become clear, that we need up-to-date intelligence legislation, but how do we reconcile these two fundamental rights, that is what this is all about. For this to be successful, strong rights need strong supervision. It is not enough to monitor how data are collected. We also need to monitor how they are used. Mr Häkkänen and Mr Mykkänen, without control of the aid, there will be no new intelligence rights. We need full control of the Supo. It is not just a question of judicial control, but, above all, of parliamentary control. In this context, the question of parliamentary control of the contribution — the whole of the contribution — must be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u56	Mr President! We're in a politically sensitive area. In-depth analysis and discussion are needed. The handling of such matters here in Parliament cannot be bypassed by a shrug. As the preparation of the law has been careful, the parliamentary procedure must also be careful, and particularly with regard to these areas of pain. Of course, the purpose of such legislation cannot be to strengthen the power of some parties, but rather to safeguard the capacity of a democratic society. For example, we need a debate which has been referred to as the control of Supo, but then we are also realistic all the time and we are not spreading any unnecessary rumours and fears. Under no circumstances are the intelligence authorities interested in the secret relationships between housewives and janitors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u57	Madam President! I believe that the suspicion of mass control is a source of color and distortion of public debate, and this despite the fact that our constitution does not allow mass control and this draft law does not contain it at all. I would like to ask the ministers: what is the point of a small country such as Finland carrying out mass control, untargeted monitoring of communications? And another question, equally important: with what kind of resources could such a thing be made? I know that the superpowers can put tens of billions into this type of activity, but Finland is quite small, I'm sure we won't put money into that mass control now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u58	Mr President! Life, personal integrity, freedom are the legal virtues protected by the Constitution, and, in fact, at its best, this intelligence legislation can safeguard these fundamental rights, at its best to save the life of a person, the life of a person. This is a bit of a tantamount to privacy, which is also a right guaranteed by the Constitution, but if we compare these two interests, I am at least inclined to make provision for this intelligence law. This isn't about mass control, it's good to remember. There are well-defined criteria. There is control in advance, both in real time and in hindsight, and the supervisors are in fact the traditional District Court of Helsinki, the Attorney General, the Ombudsman, and there will also be this Intelligence Commissioner who, in extreme cases, can even suspend the operation — really, really extensive powers — and there will also be an intelligence control committee. I can't think of any more chaperones. There must be, but did you, Minister of Justice, find out how more control can be made more effective?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u59	Madam President! The proposal is well-founded and necessary. Finland, too, is facing new types of security threats: cyber attacks, the form of hybrid warfare, or violent political extremists such as the Nordic resistance movement, the crisis in Crimea — these all argue that we are updating the intelligence legislation. On the other hand, on the other hand, it is a question of protecting citizens' privacy and fundamental rights. This is a sort of balancing exercise, and it is up to us legislators to ensure that this does not go too far. I do not want to overemphasize this possibility of mass control, but it must be carefully reviewed that the intelligence powers are precise and properly targeted and that the use of the data collected is properly monitored. This is something that we parliamentarians must address and that Parliament must have sufficient time to address. Then it is up to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to decide, and we will go ahead with the content in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u60	Madam President! It is certainly the case that terrorism and crime are being planned at a distance today, and in that sense it is very important that, since crime is not planned in Finland but is being planned somewhere else, the legislation is being reviewed. Many group speeches have raised the issue of individual protection and mass surveillance. How, then, can an ordinary person be subject to supervision or intelligence? Could the ministers answer this question, is it a real threat? It is, in fact, the concern of the citizens — and that is what I want to bring here — that is not a minor one, and it is good that the debate is being held — in what way this law might affect the privacy of the citizen. The Data Protection Ombudsman Reijo Aarnio has criticised this bill and has mentioned, among other things, that the law would allow for a machine-based investigation of cross-border communications in Finland even when there is no concrete suspicion of crime. How is this matter, and how do you ensure that there are no problems for ordinary citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u61	Mr President! This is about the need for the authorities to have effective tools to identify and combat potential threats. Finland cannot depend on data crumbs provided by other countries. It is important to take account of the fact that fundamental and human rights are safeguarded when this reform is being carried out. The monitoring of intelligence activities must be rigorous. We're not creating a police state. I'm sure no one wants that. Mr President! If this was a question of prying ordinary math e-mails, the centre could not support this law. That's not the point. You don't have to worry about an ordinary citizen. If anyone is concerned about this law, then perhaps a terrorist who is planning a serious crime. Mr President! This law is needed. It improves the safety of Finland and Finns. That is why it is needed, which is why it is necessary. And the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u62	Madam President! This package of laws has rightly given a broad focus on control, and one aspect of it is the establishment of a Committee on Intelligence in Parliament. It is coming up with a proposal from the Council of Presidents to clarify Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Some speakers have now come to the conclusion that the protection police are the institution that will decide on the composition of this Committee on Intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u65	Mr President! The need for legislation is clear and, at the same time, there is probably a reasonably clear need for this package to be carefully dealt with in this House. In this regard, however, one might think that there are certainly issues that should now be clarified and I would like to raise one. This package now also allows for foreign intelligence here on the civilian intelligence side, and the decision on foreign intelligence on the basis of this legislative package would therefore be taken by the Head of the Protection Police. So the head of the Protection Police would decide whether or not to go abroad to inquire. Now I would have asked the ministers whether this has been thought out to the very end, because it is quite certain that once this inquiry is caught abroad, the loose ones will be in the politicians' pants, not the head of the police force. In this regard, it would be good to hear a further explanation as to whether this should be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u66	Madam President! It should be borne in mind that all public activities must be governed by law and the law must be strictly observed, and this is a matter of giving the authorities both the military side and the civilian side the opportunity to monitor the information networks to the extent necessary. It should also be borne in mind that it has been suggested here in many speeches that private e-mails should be followed: that is not the case. This requires a court of law and a serious suspicion of crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u69	Mr President! I believe that there are now a few things that need to be clarified, first and foremost, for the representatives of the government parties. One of the key changes in intelligence activities that will take place with this package of legislation is to disengage the use of these secret means of intelligence from the suspicion of crime. In other words, intelligence is about access to information, the acquisition of information, an activity which is considered to seriously threaten national security. Similarly, I urge the representatives of the government parties to give up this word of mass control. It has not been used by the opposition here, and no one has claimed that this activity concerns the online activities of all citizens. What is at stake here, Mr Juvonen, for example: it is indeed the possibility of using a machine to control cross-border network traffic in a certain part of the network that the Court has authorised. Can there be messages among this information from people of math age, ordinary people of math age? Yes. Could this information include, for example, material subject to source protection? Yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u70	Mr President! It is very important that we talk about security and that we also consider this in terms of the security of the citizen. Security is also a part of security: citizens own their own data, not the property of the state in principle. This is a very important principle. Then, if this principle is to be broken, it is very important that we maintain legal protection. Whenever the powers of the authorities are increased, there will also be abuses, it must already be said in this Chamber: some authority will abuse the powers given here. And then the question comes how to control this. Now the Committee on Intelligence and the Commissioner for Intelligence have been proposed, but I am somewhat apprehensive about this dual role of the protection police. I can imagine in the future an active MP whose attention is drawn to the work of the protection police, and then the protection police are the one who gives him a security report on whether he can be a member of the intelligence control committee. I think there is a certain contradiction. This should still be considered in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u71	Madam President! In his speech, Mr Kari raised the question of whether the whole work of the protection police could come under the control of this committee of intelligence to be set up, and I hope that the Minister will also answer this question. I wouldn't see any problem with that myself. Thank you! Good!] It is true that the police's secret coercive measures and intelligence are carried out by police units other than the protection police, and we have quite a recent example of how the shortcomings in the intelligence activities of the Helsinki Narcotics Police showed that there should not be and should not be uncontrolled police activity. The same applies, of course, to the protection police, where these problems have not occurred in the same way as in the narcotics police.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u72	Then I'll give the ministers the answers, two minutes. — Minister Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u73	Mr President! Very much relevant, important things, and I am sure I will not have time to answer everything. I say that this is also intended to provide Parliament with a debate on 1.3th of this legislation, and I hope that many will continue to do so. An important question to which Mr Henriksson and Mr Pelkonen and a few others referred: what is the compelling reason? Well, here I recommend looking around, and also at the criteria that have already been mentioned here, that our risk environment is quite different from that of ten years ago. The number of threats in the networks is quite different, and unfortunately the threat of terrorism is also quite different. That is why this has now been prepared for two and a half years, and that is why it would be good to be able to use it as quickly as possible, because I think that every victim who, for example, is involved in a terrorist act in Finland, every cyber bomb that has been set up, for example, in the systems of the Finnish authority, because it has not been prevented in time, is too much. Of course, legislation must be carefully and carefully examined here, that is not what I mean at all, and it must be evaluated by Parliament as to how it can be put into practice and implemented. Mrs Parviainen also has to say that I understand that no one can promise what would have happened, for example with regard to the attack in Turku, if this capacity had been in place, but it was precisely what the intelligence legislation was looking for that could have made it possible for the significance of the Turku tip to have been discovered earlier that there is something here that needs to be focused on. There might have been something, but of course no one knows exactly. I am not saying that it could have been prevented, it would have been said irresponsibly. Mr Andersson asked what would be done with the filtering, as it were, with the information that had been found to be lost. Yes, when they pass through manual examination of the human eye, it is, as a general rule, to be reported, even if it is a matter of bystanders, if it does not constitute a risk to national security, as would not normally be the case. The processing of personal data acquired through intelligence activities was specifically asked by representative Aalto. So Supo has a closed system out of the rest of the police, and everything that is irrelevant to national security will be destroyed immediately. Mr Kari and many others then attached the question of the general supervisory law of the Committee on Intelligence. First of all, of course, the committees always have constitutional rights to information, and the Committee on Intelligence has been given the right, without prejudice to confidentiality rules, to obtain the information it needs from the authorities. How this precise task of the Committee on Intelligence, the mandate, is defined, is now a parliamentary process which will then be clarified here. Räsänen: The decision on foreign intelligence is indeed taken by the head of the subsidy because district courts do not have jurisdiction over foreign activities. When this relates to matters of foreign policy importance, it will be dealt with, the President of the Republic will be prepared,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u74	Would Secretary Häkkänen like to respond? - Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u75	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Töll and others for this good debate. The opposition-government boundaries across the board are good. It is very clear from the debate that there is, in fact, broad agreement on this issue. After all, it is now a matter of looking at and combing the details and everything in order to have an even wider consensus during the parliamentary procedure. But now that you look at this, the big picture, we are discussing the fact that we are talking about detail and we are going through this parliamentary debate here through careful preparation. Four or five years have been prepared and all parties have been able to participate both in this and in the last parliamentary term. Of this untargeted mass control, or whatever it is you want to call it, we have a clear definition of the draft Constitution: neither now nor in the years to come, according to this draft Constitution. Period. [Left: Has it been claimed?] Control of other coercive measures: They are under the control of the Parliamentary Ombudsman, and the law on coercive measures, in which the control system also operates, has just been reformed. But, of course, we have to look at this all the time. Security reports: The protection police will carry out security investigations so that Parliament has information on the persons to choose from. The National Protection Police don't pick people on the Committee on Control. In other words, a security report will be made so that Parliament's representatives have information on the basis of their choice. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u76	Would Minister Niinistö like to respond? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u77	Mr President! The questions went largely to the ministers, Mr Mykkänen and Mr Häkkänen, but perhaps a few supplementary comments, however, to Mrs Aalto and also to Mr Juvonen's question. That's right, there's a burden of proof for urgency in the government. There are repeated terrorist threats and cyber attacks against Finland. Now we are in a situation where we do not even fully know which threats may be concrete and how quickly, because there are simply no methods for adequate information. I would say to Mr Salolainen that the development of committee work is, of course, a matter for Parliament. That is also why the government's proposal has not given it much thought. It is therefore important that the committees reflect more closely on the role of the Committee on Intelligence and also provide it with sufficient resources. To Mrs Kiuru, I would say that I believe that the draft law is very precise and very narrow compared to any other country. Well, you can't really blame it for being vague. Of course, in committee work there will be clarifications, as in any other legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u78	Let's continue with the debut for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u79	Mr President! I'm sorry to hear that, Minister. I am now out of the Chamber, but I just wanted to say that the time has now been spent preparing for this on the government's side. It is a good thing that we have been thoroughly prepared, but there is now a need for a proper, thorough procedure in Parliament, and it should not be rushed. Let us not make hasty decisions about this whole thing. But now that Mr Mykkänen is gone, then, Mr Häkkänen, I ask you: how do you see this whole package of control over Supo? There was no clear answer to that, and I do not think it makes sense to play this issue back and forth now in Parliament and in the government. Now I ask you to give me a clear answer as to whether the whole of Supo is coming under control, the whole operation of Supo is coming under control now that it becomes an intelligence authority. Is it coming under full parliamentary control by this intelligence committee?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u80	Mr President! The legislative package has been thoroughly prepared and deserves a thorough parliamentary debate and debate. However, it should be noted that the Constitution is familiar with the urgency procedure. It is difficult to imagine what would be a more justified reason for urgency than national security in a situation where our security environment has changed rapidly and public authorities' threat assessments have increased. It is difficult to imagine what would be a more justified reason for urgency than a new law could possibly help prevent a number of threats requiring lives rather than putting the legislative package to rest for the next parliamentary term. National security is not the place to collect political escapades, so it has been well stated today in this Chamber, and security is the central task of the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u81	Mr President! Earlier in Parliament, there was an extension of the clearing of telecommunications identification data. Information security was also discussed a lot at the time, and public information security is still an important issue. However, our security situation has changed seriously — cyber attacks have increased, trolling online — and this change in communication technology is also evident within the Committee on Transport and Communications. We've heard a lot about it. Technology also enables criminal activity. Since the other Nordic countries have already moved towards tightening up and giving opportunities to the authorities, we too in Finland need to make this change. But, of course, the data of individuals when they are not relevant must be deleted, and overseers must also have an overseer. But, in any case, this data intelligence is only one part of the whole set of intelligence laws. This too is now intended to safeguard the security of the Nordic open society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u82	Mr President! Indeed, as Alatalo said, this information security world, the cyber security world, has very much changed recently and is a very complex issue. It has been discussed here that laws must always be balanced, and my own interpretation is that this will make a big step towards a safer Finland. However, the way this information security and cyber world has been managed so far in Finland must be borne in mind that it has been based very much on voluntary cooperation between authorities and companies and that exchange of information, and this trust should continue to be maintained because it plays a major role in the security of our society. So we need to remember that it's not going to be compromised. I like it if this goes in an accelerated order, because it takes a large majority.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u83	Mr President! Twenty years ago, I have been starting to think that everything that is spoken or written in these instruments can be heard or read somewhere, most often by criminals or hackers, in some cases by state actors, and this was, of course, hardly what we hoped for when we wanted and had such new instruments at our disposal. It is now clear in this world that we too must howl among the wolves, and that is why, under certain very specific conditions, this legislation must also be adopted. At the same time, however, I would like everyone, researchers, actors, decision-makers, authorities, to think — even what we are doing now on the basis of these laws is illegal abroad, just as foreign activities in Finland are illegal — how can such a world be achieved if privacy and human security are protected everywhere in these technical instruments? Adding control to even a small part of what we are talking about today,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u84	Madam President! Big brother's watching. In this debate, it is good to separate the fact that we are now taking the syllabus out of the same package in the name of national security, and it confuses us here if we cannot discuss what is really it... Surely we all agree here that there is a need for such legislation that intelligence is possible and specifically in the name of its national security. That's what none of us are arguing about. But now we are also discussing whether the overseer has an overseer. It was very much said here that no committee is being appointed, but, Minister, I ask you: is that the election of the candidates and some of them being the subject of a security inquiry?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u87	Madam President! In this Chamber, everyone has agreed that intelligence can specifically prevent terrorist attacks. However, as far as the Finns of Finland are concerned, I want to say that Finland's overall security will not improve as long as mass immigration is allowed to continue uncontrollably from the Middle East and Africa. Mrs Parviainen, the representative of the Greens, pointed out very well that this terrorist attack in Turku was not prevented by the intelligence laws. It's true. It had become a clue to the snout. And this is precisely where we see that it is quite a matter of whether we have sufficient resources to intervene in the results of the inquiry. The Finns Party supports the development of intelligence, but we stress the need for sufficient resources, police resources, and a more responsible immigration policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u88	Mr President! The legislative package is very massive and significant and needs to be addressed with great care. That is what today's debate has shown, and this includes representatives of the government parties and Mr Hoskose's speeches. Only after consultation of the experts will it be possible to take a position. I find it strange that the positions should be nailed down in advance before, among other things, experts in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have been properly consulted. I would have asked two more questions here. So how does intelligence take shape between courts, intelligence authorities and ombudsman, in social terms: how does integration take place? The second question: will this amendment of the Constitution open the gates in the future to increase new intelligence powers, particularly through the use of the urgency procedure, even by a narrow majority at the level of ordinary law?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u89	Ärade talman, Mr President! It is clear that such a law is needed. The world has changed, and the means of intelligence have changed with it. When it comes to privacy and also to the fact that when the law is not precise, privacy is weak, so it is good to specify rights, responsibilities, how things are controlled or not controlled. Everything suggests that this is a very well-built package. Of course, what is essential is that we here take this task seriously, which is something that we are looking at carefully, responsibly, properly, and that is something that is still to be considered, even as Mr Blomqvist has pointed out. But for this self-handling: After all, all laws must be good, justified, well thought out, weighed, and so must this. How and in what order this will be dealt with is then a different matter and must be based on the picture of what the current situation is. The fact that this relates to national security does not, as such, justify a more rapid debate, but if we judge on the basis of these discussions, on the basis of the work of the committee, that the current situation is so bad that it must therefore be dealt with quickly, then that is the basis for this. In any case, whether this is adopted now or six to twelve months later, the legislative package must be sound, well-founded and carefully considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u90	Mr President! This debate has highlighted the serious change in our security environment and the worsening of the security threat. In that sense, if these powers were not adopted, if anything happened, it would be difficult to use the fact that ‘there was no authority to know’. Then as far as this supervision is concerned, the powers of this intelligence officer are exceptionally great, and in real time he is able to observe how to apply for a permit, be able to attend a district court hearing when this permit is being processed, i.e. in the early stages, i.e. pro and also after. So this is gonna work. When we talk about resources, it is essential that, when we adopt these laws, we adopt the line that sufficient resources are allocated to it. It is now difficult to say exactly how many they are needed, and the need will be growing in any case, so that sufficient resources will have to be secured. As far as this Committee on Intelligence is concerned, it covers the whole of the inquiry, the intelligence powers that are in the custody of the police. There is nothing about intelligence that would be excluded from it. This committee
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u91	Madam President! I appreciate the representative. As a Member of Parliament who can meet halfway, I believe that this type of quality is needed in the further work that Parliament is now going to do after the government's proposal. In this same spirit and, I say, even in a little emotional spirit, when we are on the move with such a big issue: Ministers, Mr Mykkänen and Mr Häkkänen, you are playing an extremely important role in this legislation, its parliamentary control as ministers for the tasks, roles and law enforcement of the protection police, and so far as controls are concerned. I would like to ask you again, Mr Häkkänen, when you are only present: will Parliament now receive an answer as to whether it will be the whole of the contribution, including to the basement, to the parliamentary control of the Parliament in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u92	Secretary Häkkänen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u93	Mr President! Control of Supo: At present, several committees in Parliament are monitoring the activities of the protection police. In the future, when criminal investigations are removed from the protection police and the focus is on intelligence, the Committee on Intelligence will therefore become the Committee on Intelligence, which will focus on the monitoring of intelligence methods. There is currently work in the parliament on Parliament's own regulation in the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, which are the tasks of its Supervisory Committee. I would like to encourage an in-depth debate on whether there are any significant elements of parliamentary control that are now causing this concern, which the SDP is raising here. If there is a major concern, I do not think it will be caught in this Chamber, that your concerns will not be taken into account. In other words, I would encourage it to be thoroughly investigated if there are such shortcomings. Reasons relating to the urgency of the Constitution: They have not been dealt with much in practice in the Constitutional Committee during the new Constitution. The requirement of necessity, of abnormality is there, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is now faced with a great task when it sets a threshold for how to change the Constitution during one parliamentary term, and that is an extremely serious, great task. Even the global challenge of privacy, which was mentioned here by Mr Tuomioja: I fully share the concern. Whether Finland, our authorities, have intelligence powers or not will not stop that global development at all. We should only be involved in this by demonstrating as a rule of law that we only participate in the inquiry through clearly defined powers and controls, not as in some. Perhaps in Asian countries or in Eastern countries. The safety report does not determine the eligibility of a representative to the Supervisory Committee, but merely brings Parliament awareness of certain backgrounds of the representative and affects the decision or not, but it does not hinder this task.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u95	Mr President! Great, Mr Häkkänen, that after two and a half hours of discussion, a situation can be reached where the Minister states that it is in the hands of Parliament, after all, to carry out this parliamentary control of the subsidy to the extent necessary for it to be carried out. That, if I understood the Minister's answer correctly, the power now lies here in Parliament, in the opinion of the government, for the implementation of this matter. This is great. It is important that, at long last, after ten years of discussion, this matter should be resolved in such a way that the protection police, which will become an intelligence officer, will be able to exercise parliamentary control over the whole operation, and it is wonderful that we have reached this conclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u98	Madam President! To the extent that we can now be very pleased that this delegate and this committee will receive information on what is happening in Finnish intelligence in an unprecedented way. I only raised the question of what we are going to know here, because that information remains quite accurate in these bodies. Until now, we and the committees have been having coffee and eating one sandwich from time to time in a sledgehammer. The question is whether our knowledge will be weakened by what it has been in the past. That information is given to some very thoroughly, but what information does this Parliament have in corpore? This is my question. It has so far worked in five committees. There has been coffee and a sandwich from time to time, and it has been reasonably superficial to know what has been obtained there. What will the answer be? I think that's a good question, and it's worth it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u100	Mr President! I agree with two and a half hours of waiting for this speech that there is a good debate, a democratic debate, and this has been an encouraging debate, and I welcome this. Thank you to all your fellow Members. But I would like to remind you that, as Mr Kanerva said, the world is changing and cyber intelligence and cyber warfare are coming to Finland, but also other types of cyber intelligence and cyberterrorism. Intelligence has moved from that air to the grid, that is, when it has no one's property in the airspace, it is very limitedly protected in that network. Finland must respond to this. Extreme right-wing hate groups can meet in Finland, as they have already gathered, and cause evil. Extreme left-wingers can do... We must be able to respond to the fact that the safety of our citizens is not jeopardised and that national interests are not jeopardised. That is why these laws must be dealt with as a matter of urgency. If it remains in the next parliament, they will still want their own signature and may be that in 2025 these laws will be ready.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u101	Let us take one more debate, then the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u102	Madam President! The Finnish security environment has indeed changed, and I therefore also consider this provision of intelligence legislation to be necessary within an accelerated timetable. Oversight and trust have taken place here in the debate. Both are important issues which must be implemented in this respect, and I believe that the work of this parliamentary working party, as represented by the It's got a lot of merit, gives it a good basis. The challenges of the information society have been discussed here, and we hear that good and bad are meeting on the same basis in the beginning of the economy, and this is also an important issue to take into account. I would stress the individual's responsibility in the sense that we share that information ourselves, tweet and publish different information on the Internet, and I ask the question: what is to be monitored by that authority then at times by us private people when we are already sharing all that information on Facebook?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u103	Would Secretary Häkkänen like to respond? — Minister Häkkänen, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u104	Mr President! First of all, a little bit to this philosophical whole of the legislative package. This is the intention, as this debate well demonstrates, to follow the balance of forces, checks and balances, that whenever you add some rights or powers to someone, in practice at least as strong control mechanisms will be created. This is the thinking of all the fundamental pillars of Western society. So now we are discussing whether certain detailed procedures are in practice strong enough, and this debate is extremely good in that sense. This will also clarify matters, and Parliament will certainly come to the conclusion, when it comes to the spring debate in Parliament, of the way in which this detailed procedure is sufficiently precise. Powers conferred by the constitutional amendment: it will be strictly limited so that the ordinary laws now to be adopted and the legislation to be adopted in the future can only move forward with certain powers. In other words, the draft Constitution is not all-encompassing and wide-ranging in any way, but, as I have just described it in previous speeches, it imposes clear constraints on these. I would like to emphasise that the work of the safety authorities is currently under parliamentary control. There is no shadowy thing in which, in a sense, there is now a significant or massive hidden activity, but even now, as Mr Salolainen well described here, Parliament has rights of information which are not weakened by this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u107	Let us now move on to the list of speakers. Let's go to the fast-paced discussion section.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u108	Madam President! The world has changed, and Finland's position as a birdhouse has also changed. The terrorist act that shocked Finns last autumn in Turku is a warning example of the deterioration in the security of our society. I believe that it is urgently necessary to regulate intelligence legislation in an accelerated manner. Those who oppose it will take a huge risk if the terrorist attacks that will come as a result of their actions cannot be combated. There have been far more terrorist attacks in Europe since 2001 with the help of intelligence. I believe that this is the basis for the introduction of a new intelligence law. Madam President! The greatest right to protection is the right to life. According to Article 7 of the Constitution, every Finnish citizen has the right to life and personal liberty, integrity and security. This Article 7 of the Constitution is also more important than privacy. Privacy policy cannot take precedence over the safety of citizens. The state has a constitutional duty to protect its citizens. Criminals and terrorists are not meant to have such protection. A good example of the importance of intelligence in the fight against terrorism is the fact that the British authorities managed, thanks to good intelligence work, to prevent a large series of terrorist attacks in 2006. The purpose of the terrorists was to blow up with liquid bombs at least seven passenger planes from Great Britain to the United States and Canada simultaneously over the Atlantic. The intelligence also revealed that the same terrorist group was planning even larger terrorist attacks. In the worst case scenario, almost 10,000 lives would have been lost if the British authorities had not had sufficient legislative intelligence to investigate and block this terrorist plan. Madam President! Of course, privacy needs to be ensured, but the anonymisation of data and the use of the latest AI algorithms would make it possible to automatically withdraw messages from the data stream that would meet the threshold of ‘suspects’ or ‘probably’, which would also enable the use of mandatory means. If such a decision were to be taken, a suspicious message could be read by the authorities without the authority even knowing who sent the message or to whom it was sent. Only if the authority finds that the threshold for the use of the law on coercive measures — or similar intelligence law — has been exceeded could the anonymisation of the message be removed, as it would have been laid down in the law. Madam President! People always have the fear that messages relating to their private lives would be read if the intelligence powers of the authorities were increased. But as a former policeman, I can say that the security authorities have no interest in reading messages that are not relevant to a specific task or suspicion of a crime. The role of the security authority is always based on the letter of the law, and it is not the responsibility of the security authorities to send private messages from law-abiding citizens. When we take care of the anonymisation of messages in the way I have mentioned, we will also ensure the privacy of our citizens as much as possible. Madam President! As a result, I am in favour of the adoption of a law on intelligence in an accelerated order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u109	Mr President! The proposal for a whole set of intelligence laws is a typical example of a set of legislation in which the decision maker has to balance several important objectives and values. Each country is striving to maximise its own security and the security of its citizens, and that is also the duty of society. At the same time, we also have an important duty to ensure the protection of the privacy of every citizen and the public's faith in the functioning and stability of the rule of law. Since it is a matter of addressing the fundamental rights of citizens and a significant extension of the supervisory powers of the authorities, this whole issue deserves to be dealt with in depth, factually and extensively. The main issues for the Left Alliance are the scope of the powers of intelligence, the right of citizens to information, the supervision of intelligence, the rules governing the exchange of international intelligence and trading, and the justification for the amendment of the Constitution. A good example of the question that is essential from the point of view of the privacy of an individual citizen is the right of citizens to information in a situation where their own messages have been subject to intelligence — also in relation to this obligation to destroy under the law. This obligation to dispose has now been proposed for the provision of information which should not be consulted in the first place, such as communication between two people in Finland, communication under the protection of sources or communication that is not considered essential for the protection of national security. However, since it is not technically possible to carry out telecommunications intelligence in such a way that it is possible to screen out communications in advance that are not to be inquired about, this destruction obligation has instead been laid down, i.e. to be destroyed after this information has already been screened. This becomes problematic in situations where this obligation to dispose is applied and when information that the message has been opened, whether by automatic or manual processing, is not reported to the subject of the enquiry. This means, in practice, that it is impossible to obtain information on the extent to which this data intelligence actually exists and the number of such strikes against innocent citizens, because there will then be no public information about them. Mr President! Information from intelligence is also a valuable tool for exchange in international intelligence cooperation. The Finnish authorities will also use information obtained through new intelligence methods in international cooperation with other countries. In the view of the Left Alliance, the rules for this cooperation have not yet been sufficiently defined. Questions are raised both as to what kind of information Finland will share and the means by which Finland receives information from other countries whose intelligence activities may be considerably more far-reaching in terms of the privacy of citizens. For example, is there any guarantee that, as a result of the information provided by the Finnish authorities, people will in no way end up in interrogations, for example, in countries where human rights violations are widespread? In view of the proposed extension of access rights, it is also proposed to set up mechanisms to monitor public authorities. There is a great need for these new control mechanisms, but it must be sufficiently resourced to be genuinely effective and reliable. In addition to independent supervisory bodies, the Court of Justice is a central supervisory authority as a licensing authority. The Court of Justice is therefore the body which will in future have to weigh the requests of the authorities to conduct an inquiry online, depending on whether it is at all necessary to obtain information and whether the scope of the network area is appropriate to this need. From the point of view of the credibility of judicial control, it is essential that the court has sufficient technical expertise to assess requests for authorisation and genuine readiness to question the arguments of the authorities — for example, the current means of telecommunications are rarely prevented.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u110	Madam President! The security situation around Finland has changed over the last few years, it is true, and it has been said here today in many speeches. The security policy environment and related challenges are increasingly diverse, whether it is a matter of intelligence, observation or protection. I believe that the government's proposals, which are being discussed today, including the law on military intelligence, provide a good basis for cooperation between the various intelligence authorities. One important task of intelligence is to target the right intelligence to the right authority. Another important information, in my view, is that we can rely on the information received. It is worth remembering that military intelligence is an important and central part of Finland’s defence capability. It would also be important to provide for the situation in which information on offences could be made available to the authorities. Cooperation between different administrative branches has traditionally been good in Finland. For the proper use of resources, it would be good if the intelligence agency were also to be the provider of telecommunications intelligence for the future. Terrorism has landed in Finland, whether we like it or not. This is true of what happened last year, and it has also been said here today in several speeches. That is why the Civil Intelligence Act should also be updated. I believe that the following items are key to the reform of civilian intelligence: intelligence methods must be used to obtain information on, for example, terrorism abroad and possibly at home, on the activities of a foreign state that may threaten Finland and its citizens, on the design, manufacture, dissemination and possible use of weapons of mass destruction, on the threat of international peace and security, on crisis management operations and on the threat of their activities. Here are some examples of how, in my opinion, intelligence should be obtained. Security is one of the cornerstones of our society. I therefore believe that this legislation should be adopted in an accelerated manner. There has been a good debate here today on intelligence legislation and I welcome this work of the parliamentary working group and I hope that the work of its working party will continue in the spirit of respect for parliamentaryism. The information society is a challenging sector, an area of activity, and today we have heard many speeches about its potential. I myself would also like to raise the threats to security posed by the information society. The good and evil mentioned here are on that same platform, causing ever greater destruction. As individuals, we are also responsible for our own actions in relation to the information society and security. We are familiar with the words ‘jaa’, ‘install’, ‘public’, ‘tvia’. In the speech I just made, I asked myself, when we have shared all the information about ourselves, that what is to be monitored by the authorities then, because we ourselves want to share that information. It is distributed in a marketing, information-sharing way, location data, banks and traders using these shared information about our behaviour, because we ourselves have wanted to share that information and give it to all possible people for publication. Finally, in his own speech, the representative of the plant asked the question whether the representatives trust the Finnish police. I personally, at least after the reform of this intelligence law, would like to say that I trust the Finnish police. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u111	Mr President! The terrorist attack in Turku was a sign of a deterioration in our security, a deterioration in security that has been led to by the policy of open borders. It is important to recognise that more intelligence legislation alone would not have stopped the terrorist in Turku, as the protection police had been tipped off in advance. We can therefore say that sufficient resources are needed to enable the authorities to intervene in intelligence. Of course, Finland's internal security is an overall political issue. It is influenced by a number of different factors in different policy areas. However, it should be noted that the policy of open borders, which feeds non-work-based mass immigration, is the most important of these. Intelligence legislation can make a significant contribution to the fight against terrorism. But does it make Finland safer to increase intelligence but immigration policy does not change? It does not make Finland safer. If immigration is allowed to continue growing from the Middle East and Africa, the security situation will certainly not improve, it is likely to deteriorate. It can therefore be said that Finland's security level will not be restored to a good level without a responsible immigration policy. Nevertheless, the development and introduction of intelligence legislation for this millennium is very important. Mr President! A secure society is the primary task of the Finnish state. It is clear to Finns that intelligence legislation must be up-to-date. However, we are dealing with a wide range of government proposals and with a view to amending the Constitution, so we stress the need for the committees to carry out proper expert consultations and to carefully weigh up the various points of view. During this term of government, there has already been a rather heated debate about the level of Finnish law drafting. Even such an important legislative package should not be dealt with in a sloppy manner. The Constitution must not be trampled on because of inter-party competition. The possible urgency procedure for amending the Constitutional Treaty should be further considered once the matter has been dealt with in the Constitutional Committee. This constitutional change may also emerge in the coming decades as a precedent to which reference will be made when considering the amendment of the Constitution, perhaps in exceptional and urgent circumstances. The amendment of the Constitution must be clear and well thought out in terms of its formulation, as the ordinary laws of intelligence can later be amended by a simple majority in Parliament. In terms of human rights, laws must be clear and precise. Citizens must be able to understand the legislation about themselves. The relevance of intelligence legislation is therefore clear in itself and the need for intelligence has increased. The law has not provided for proper powers for intelligence, but the intelligence of civil authorities is mainly based on criminal defence capabilities, capacity for action, public sources and information available in the framework of voluntary cooperation. People need to be careful about the exercise of their rights and privacy. A clear ban on so-called mass control has been proposed in the explanatory text. However, I also believe that this could have been added to the text of the Constitution. Sum summarum: It is important that the intelligence activities are based on either confirmed information or reasonable doubt and on a sufficiently precise target. In other words, intelligence must never be a full search and must not violate the privacy of an ordinary citizen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u112	Madam President! The legislative package now under discussion is extremely important and very timely for Finland. We have all noticed how a huge change has taken place in the Finnish environment. Our operating environment today is much more troubled, the dangers are close to us, and it is wisdom to prepare for them. It is nothing more than preparing ourselves for what might happen in the future and in what way we can safeguard the security of Finnish citizens in both military and civil matters and protect the integrity of the whole country in general. That's what this is all about. Military intelligence needs the tools that other countries already have, as well as civilian intelligence needs the tools that the Finnish authorities do not yet have. In this respect, Finland has so far fallen far behind in the field of intelligence law in other countries. After all, it is a paradox that even at the moment we have foreign intelligence systems that are allowed to move within our information networks virtually freely, but the Finnish authorities are not allowed to do so. This fact I read on the website of one of the news media brought me to the conclusion that this is indeed the case: intelligence from a foreign kingdom is able to run freely on Finnish information networks, but our authorities are not at all. The guarantee of all public activities in Finland has always been and will be the law. According to our Constitution, all public activities must be governed by law and the law must be strictly observed. That's where it all starts. This legislative package now under discussion, which concerns both military intelligence and civilian intelligence, has received very careful, long preparation. Of course, thanks must be given to those involved in the preparatory work that the work has been thorough, good and high-quality. And the special thanks also go to this parliamentary monitoring group, which has done a very valuable job under the leadership of President Töll. It has given this whole package of laws a good parliamentary and over-registration-opposition boundaries a strong back-up for us to be on the right track and for the good and healthy basis of the draft laws that have been prepared. It should be borne in mind that, according to the Finnish Constitution, public action must be based on law and, under all circumstances, fundamental rights are protected as effectively and comprehensively as possible. You don't have to compromise on that principle. But there have always been different small limits to our constitution and fundamental rights — it is clear, everyone knows that different small limits to fundamental rights have been made all the time — and precisely from the point of view that the limit that must be imposed is proportionate to this benefit. In other words, no such surprising or sudden change will be made, but, above all, all the changes that have been made to our Constitution until now, and when different fundamental rights have been somewhat restricted, careful consideration has been given in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as to the extent to which this loss is in relation to the benefits that have been achieved. That's what this is all about. It is quite right that an inquiry into Finland from abroad, which is usually... If reconnaissance is being carried out, it has a mission. If it is military intelligence, it can be detrimental to the country's independence, and if it is civil intelligence, it can also be that, for example, the monitoring of terrorism. There are a lot of people in Finland at the moment that many terrorist attacks may be in preparation at the moment, and we lack the means of monitoring these people who are doing this suspicious work that the international information network has enabled us to do. Now, after this legislation, we have instruments to intervene in the communication of these people, for example with other terrorist organisations on what is being prepared. This law offers an opportunity to do so. It should also be borne in mind that this legislation, which is currently being discussed here, is subject to very strong control. There is no such thing as an uncontrollable thing. There's gonna be an intelligence councilman who gets all the information whenever he wants. The court gives permission to make an inquiry, it is the first step, then the intelligence officer will be informed of what has been asked. Then, if there is any unnecessary information, it must be immediately disposed of in the blink of an eye. And then there will be a committee of inquiry, which will also receive all the information, and it will be by means of this, as has been demonstrated in the speech of a number of members of the group, that all representatives of the parliamentary parties should be present at that meeting in committee. It is a very good and sound basis for believing that this legislation will be good and monitored closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u113	Madam President! The terrorist attacks against the United States in September 2001 irrevocably altered the Western concept of world security. The Western way of life, in which individual freedom, trust and human rights are central, had to recognise their vulnerability. President Bush said the country was at war. Under the leadership of the United States, the so-called war on terrorism was launched with the aim of destroying the organisation behind the terrorist attacks. The war on terrorism became a new concept for international security policy. Acting under the heading of war meant the application of martial law, which undermines transparency, democracy, privacy and other human rights. Intelligence methods and coverage were significantly strengthened in the United States and elsewhere. The picture of the extent of intelligence carried out under the leadership of the US government was revealed to a startling extent thanks, among other things, to the revelations made by Edward Snowden. Domestic security policy debate has refrained from using the term ‘war against terrorism’. Instead of war, there has been talk of counter-terrorism, and this is wise. Finland is involved in the fight against terrorism but does not wage a war on terrorism. The intelligence legislation that has been passed on to Parliament aims to provide instruments to combat certain threats. The purpose of the inquiry is to obtain information on military activities or other activities which constitute a serious threat to national security. The main objective is to obtain information to prevent terrorist attacks and cyber attacks against digital information systems. Intelligence legislation has been drawn up for normal conditions, not for a state of war or a state of emergency. It is therefore up to us in Parliament to ensure that the law does not allow intelligence authorities to act in a way that violates fundamental human rights and the fundamental rights of the citizen laid down in the Constitution. Our task is to promote the security of society under normal conditions, so that the privacy of the citizen, such as the protection of a confidential message, is not violated except when it is necessary to combat a serious threat to the security of society. Mr President! The legislative package under discussion on constitutional change, intelligence legislation and its control is written in the mirror of naivety. In connection with the drafting of the law, it has been repeatedly pointed out that Finland is no longer a birdhouse that is safe from the evil of the rest of the world. We have been warned not to look at the world too naively, gulliblely. It has been pointed out that we cannot simply leave ourselves to intelligence from other countries when we decide on our national security. The world must be faced as it is. We must take seriously the deterioration of the security situation in our environment and internationally. The preparation of intelligence legislation has also rightly reminded us of another kind of naivety, and so has the good debate here today, namely that we would always trust the authorities to function properly. Here, too, reality must be faced as it is, and not with naivety, not too confidently. The legislation must therefore ensure that the supervision of the activities of the authorities is comprehensive and that the legal protection of the citizen who has been subjected to the activities of the authorities is adequately ensured. We must not be naive with regard to threats to our country, but we must not be naive with regard to the potential for abuse within the sphere of official activity. We need an opportunity for intelligence and we need clear boundaries for intelligence and proper supervision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u114	Madam President! This overall package of intelligence law, which we are dealing with in this referral debate, is an extremely important and long-awaited package of legislation. I'm glad it's here now. It's good to be able to move it forward. Military intelligence requires updating, as well as civilian intelligence. These entities are now responding to the cry that has been made here for several years now, when, for example, matters have been dealt with in the Committee on Defence. The security environment has changed, as has been said several times here today. Network security: More things have been passed over to the network. Things happen there that we wouldn't want to happen. Things happen there that are done by a foreign state. There are things going on, such as terrorism and crime within the framework of it. We need to be able to deal with these. You have to be able to answer them in time. That is why this legislative package is being discussed here. Madam President! We cannot rely solely on the goodwill of the partner countries to obtain our intelligence. We have to be a host in our own house, that's what this refers to. The fact that we are getting information from our partners, from other countries in the European Union, we are getting information from Western countries is a good thing, but we must be able to answer for our own country's intelligence. There is a lot of information on the network that should not be moved, and we will not be able to access it at the moment until the crime has taken place. Now, with the new legislation, we need to get to it. Why are we doing this? We are doing so because we are able to catch up with this information at sufficient times. We will be able to intervene, we will be able to prevent crime and we will make our citizens more secure in this country. Overall, state online intelligence has increased by other countries, and we must also be able to respond to this counter-intelligence then, so that we also know how we are being asked. Privacy policy is what we all talk about here. There has been talk of so-called mass control as to whether there could be such a thing. You don't have the resources, you don't have the will. It is a misconception and it is nothing to worry about, that this will happen with this future legislation. But if we are talking about so-called mass control, about obtaining information, it is just as Mr Pakkanen said earlier. We have huge companies, Google, Apple, we have Facebook, Twitter, who are constantly collecting information about us about what we put in there. In Western countries, every citizen has downloaded more than 90 apps, different apps for us on mobile phones, for us on iPads, for us on computers and so on. In them we always accept the terms of use, what information about us can be collected — and how many, hand with heart, have read these terms of use sometimes, what information about us is collected? If all this information were actually read, it would take 72 days when its own, which it has given its consent to, would read through. A huge amount of information is already being gathered about us. This information is not collected by the Finnish state through this intelligence legislation, but it has been done by large international network companies. Madam Speaker! To the extent that good groundwork has been done here, under the leadership of Mr Tapani Töll, thank you. The committees are now discussing this whole during this spring, the Defence Committee, the Administrative Committee, among other things, and of course the Constitutional Committee. I do hope that this whole package will be brought through unanimously, as is the case here as a general rule in this Chamber, and also in a quick order of procedure, so that we can bring this intelligence legislation into force quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u115	Mr President! I support this Government's proposal for a law on the amendment of Article 10 of the Finnish Constitution in an urgent order, such as the whole package of laws. Without security, there can be no development. There is no security without development. That is what UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan said in 2005 when I was in international civilian crisis management positions in a society where security had been broken. Now we here are developing our own security through intelligence legislation and the constitutional amendment to it, so that we can better guarantee national security, protect everyone's most important fundamental and human rights in life and personal freedom and integrity. Mr President! Here the Social Democrats raised the need for closer monitoring of the protection police. According to the Government's proposal, monitoring of the aid will also be strengthened. Supo should, among other things, always inform the Intelligence Commissioner when using the intelligence method. Cooperation between Supo and other authorities will be further regulated. The law would also provide for cooperation between the two companies. Mr President! Even here, Minister of Justice Häkkänen described an exceptionally strict monitoring mechanism for intelligence activities, including an intelligence officer with extensive powers, as well as the Committee on Intelligence. Minister Häkkänen said that supervisors would also be monitored in the future. This too is very important. In this committee, politicians, laymen, should monitor the activities of security professionals, assess serious security threats to national security. Control must ensure that the members of the committee have the capacity to be reliable, to retain secret information, and then that none of these members of the committee uses the information they receive for political purposes. I raise this concern because during the presidential election, the Finnish candidate used the information received during the national defence course to justify something of his own. There was also concern about the fact that the supo would decide who would belong to this Committee on Intelligence — I think at least one of the ministers has already mentioned it — that these security reports on the contribution are not legally binding upon the denominator when deciding which members of this Committee on Intelligence come to this committee. Mr President! I'm gonna go back to the intelligence committee. On this point, the detailed explanatory statement of the law states that the right to information would require the secrecy of the members, officials and experts of the Committee on Intelligence on matters that would jeopardise Finland’s national security or otherwise be confidential. It is proposed that specific provisions be included in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament on the confidentiality of the documents of the Committee on Intelligence and the confidentiality of the members and officials of the Committee on Intelligence and that the confidentiality aspects should be highlighted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u116	Mr President! The events in Turku in August 2017 concretised the threat that many people had long thought would affect Finland. Last year, the wave of international terrorism hit the Nordic countries, Turku and Stockholm. We are not protected from this type of attack. The fight against terrorism underscores the importance of reforming intelligence laws. Radicalised and ideologically like-minded people find each other on the Internet and get support for their ideas. The new intelligence laws will help us better to prepare for and respond to threats of this type. Telecommunications intelligence is an effective way of addressing cybersecurity challenges. We must keep up with this development if we are to adequately prepare for new-nitrogen security threats, such as cyber attacks. A well-designed cyber attack can effectively paralyse parts of modern society. Telecommunications intelligence will help prepare for such threats.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u117	Mr President! Finland lives in a more international world. Digitalisation has transferred communication systems and public administration information systems to the network. The means of war have varied. Here are just a few examples of a rapidly changing surrounding world that Finland cannot lag behind in its development. The takeover of Crimea in 2014 and the war in Eastern Ukraine meant a significant deterioration in our security environment, which is still continuing. Finland is subject to information impact, cyber attacks, and in addition, foreign intelligence has increased in our country. I mean, something needs to be done. Intelligence laws have been prepared since 2013. The task of the Parliamentary Monitoring Group has been to ensure a broad consensus on the drafting and content of intelligence laws. Indeed, the parliamentary and judicial control of intelligence activities is being regulated in an exceptionally wide-ranging international comparison of powers. The draft law was all in favour of drafting military intelligence legislation. For example, the Minister of Justice states that: The current powers of the Defence Forces are not sufficient to provide sufficient information on threats to Finland in order to provide a military advance warning. In our legislation, we are already far behind the other Western countries and our control countries. It is time to raise Finland from the foxholes of the Cold War to the level of other Western countries. Mr President! The presentation of military intelligence confers powers on the acquisition of information in the Defence Forces’ tasks, which are as precise as possible defined by law. The purpose of the data acquisition is to provide Finland with timely and preliminary information on the Finnish security environment in support of the decision-making of the state administration. Military intelligence is mainly directed at a state or comparable actor, such as a military separatist group. Much in advance, even for the Defence Forces as a new authority, the telecommunications intelligence would therefore mainly focus on state communications outside the protection of fundamental rights. However, the amendment of the Constitution is necessary because it now allows a confidential message to be opened only in the interests of crime prevention. However, there is no crime involved in all the activities of foreign armed forces, which the Finnish State would be of paramount importance in terms of preparedness. Mr President! So the nature of war has changed. There is talk of a so-called hybrid effect, which also involves civilian means and the exploitation of the vulnerability of society. In the beginning, communications such as the Internet were developed for soldiers as management and intelligence tools. From there they spread to everyone when the system was found to help trade, production and communication between people in a cost-effective way. Finnish society is rapidly developing towards digital services. Our society has become dependent on secure information networks. A wide range of attacks can be made on the network. In the beginning of the month, an extensive attack was made on the inner network of the city of Lahti. The attacks are quick to carry out, but their post-cleaning is slow and expensive. Online espionage and online attacks are expected to increase. The vital functions of our society are currently not sufficiently protected against attacks on networks. Cyber attacks can also be targeted against state institutions as a way of exerting political or economic pressure before possible military forces. Current legislation does not allow early warning. We blues are in favour of forwarding intelligence laws in a fast-track procedure during this reign. The intelligence laws are already late — let's not keep Finland's security waiting any longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u118	Mr President! I think it is important that the intelligence laws before us today are dealt with as a matter of urgency. The security of citizens cannot and must not be the place of political play. I'm not worried about mass surveillance. I don't think the authorities have the time or interest to pry out individual Matt or Maijamen. If you live a perfectly normal honest life, what should a normal person even have to fear? On the other hand, now that Finland is a little behind in comparison with other countries in Western Europe, perhaps the benefit is that we can now, in our own legislation, learn from the possible excesses that have taken place elsewhere, so that later laws have been changed in this regard. Mr President! On the other hand, there are also some points in the legislative package that deserve further clarification. One of these concerns foreign intelligence services. The U.S. Central Intelligence Service, British Foreign Intelligence and Swedish Military Intelligence would now be given clear permission to act in Finland and collect intelligence from the target secretly within Finnish borders, with or without the assistance of a tutor or the Defence Forces. Collecting should always be based on a serious threat to national security. I myself wonder in what circumstances this might be the case and how this situation would change in practice in relation to current practices, for example in the case of fake purchases and various covert operations. I believe that these should be clarified in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u119	Mr President! A package of such intelligence legislation is desirable and carefully prepared. In that respect, it is also justified that we should be able to deal with it as a matter of urgency this spring. It is therefore a question of three entities: civil and military intelligence and supervision of intelligence; the proposals also require the amendment of Article 10 of the Constitution. The progress of the legislative package is about blue and white security, trust and also the functioning of parliamentaryism. The security situation and the environment have changed, as we have already said several times in this Chamber since Parliament's first internal security report last spring. It is also a matter of trust. It is important that citizens have confidence in the authorities. The bill classed up-to-date intelligence tools and tools for the police and other security authorities to enable security authorities to assume responsibility for the safety of Finns. Intelligence will ensure the proper functioning of the authorities and, at the same time, that the fundamental rights of citizens are realised. Our security environment has changed. New threats call for more multi-level investigative tools, and with intelligence legislation Finland takes a big leap forward to guarantee our national security, but it is not only about this blue and white security, but also about trust and the functioning of parliamentaryism. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, during this spring we will see whether there is confidence in this House and the ability to look at this issue precisely through blue and white glasses. Finally, when it comes to the functioning of parliamentaryism and democracy, it is measured by how we deal with the whole package of intelligence legislation at committee stage and under what conditions it will be finally adopted. We will begin the discussion, among other things, in the Administrative Committee tomorrow, Wednesday.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u120	Madam President! There are now particularly strong grounds for creating intelligence legislation and amending the Constitution as a matter of urgency. The preparation of the law has started in practice as early as 2013, now we are living in 2018. Between the illegal invasion of Crimea, the practice of hybrid warfare, international migration and the wave of illegal immigration to Europe, the illegal presence of hundreds of thousands of people in the EU, the systematic involvement of third parties in the US presidential elections, the new forms of terrorism and the ever-increasing preparation of terrorist acts using information networks. Finland cannot remain in fax time. We are already practically late with these intelligence laws. It follows from the logic expressed by some in Parliament that, when the undesirable state of affairs has existed for a long time, there is not necessarily a need to keep busy now, but that even an additional year could be taken to pass the matter on to the next Parliament. I do not believe that the majority of citizens will accept such an approach, the most important role of the state when it comes to ensuring the safety of its citizens. The means of protecting citizens must be considered in the context of the legislative project now under consideration, inter alia with regard to the protection of the privacy of citizens. It's very important. At the same time, it can be said that at the moment many non-involved parties in Finland are already able and able to monitor and monitor telecommunications and its content in Finland, including individual citizens. For example, in parliamentary work, at least I have come up with situations where, at the request of the authorities, I have been forced to leave the means of communication out of service and into a separate space when I have received some information. This means that it is relatively easy to follow anyone through the means of communication now. And I believe that information security in Parliament, at least according to all reason, is at a very high level. By creating even limited capabilities and strictly limited and controlled possibilities for the Finnish security authorities to act in a similar way, I do not believe that we reduce the right of Finns to privacy, but, on the contrary, we improve these rights when we do not leave the Finnish information networks as relatively freely available to foreign intelligence and criminals, where the privacy of Finnish citizens is nothing more than a joke. So things should be set in perspective and a sense of reality preserved. Mr President! In this situation, we must leave the clear-cut idealism and, on the other hand, the unnecessary painting of dystopia for less and the recognition of facts and realities. By carefully weighing and considering the details and passing through the democratic process, this legislation will be a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u121	Madam President! I was actually enthusiastic about what Mrs Kanerva and Mrs Packalén have said in the sense that I would now like to reassure the Finnish people that Finland will not yet be occupied by an attack via the network, that occupation is something else. But it is particularly important for military intelligence to be promoted in the name of national security, and I do not want to object in any way to the urgency of this matter. However, when it comes to a whole package, it has to be said that when Mrs Packalén came here to prove that police and authorities are not interested in unchurious information, I recall from that country that, in relation to a murder investigation, a very large number of officials from the police were informed that they were going through information that was not theirs. In other words, they did not participate in this murder investigation, but they wanted out of curiosity to conduct these own investigations, which means that when this law is being prepared, we must be very vigilant as to how this information is being handled. In that sense, the committees must be given a particularly good job of making that in-depth consideration so that this monitoring mechanism really works. I think there were 40 who did not participate in the investigation but wanted this information and received it, and I think it is unreasonable if we do not take care of this control and data security. I'm sure every one of us remembers Snowden or Panama papers and so on, what it means when there's a lot of information in one place. Mr President! I see it as a very great responsibility that we begin to obtain information on a large scale, because the possibility of leakage for the individual person who does not know that he is being controlled is real. His information could leak to the public. I was not in the initial debate when it was asked who was then informed of this security report on the part of the Member of Parliament, and I would like to ask the ministers further: what if the person who is the chairman of the parliamentary group has received a negative opinion from the supo on his own safety and usability and suitability in committee? This should also be dealt with in the committee's deliberations, so that how this matter is dealt with. The mandate given by the mandate of the representative of the people, which is based on the Constitution — is the right of the MP to be elected to the installations here being put at risk? Mr President! Finally, even with this legislation, we will not be able to prevent foreign trolling or intelligence. You have to take it as real. It is important that we are able to ensure national security through our own actions, but this legislative package does not prevent the way the foreign powers work here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u122	Mr President! The war in Georgia 2008, the Ukraine crisis 2014, the terrorist threat to Finland is higher than ever. Unfortunately, we, Finns and Finland, have been naive for many years. Fortunately, since 2013, this legislative work on the reform of intelligence laws has taken time too, of course. The blue ones aren't blue-eyed. Now is the time to reform the intelligence legislation, and I am glad that there has been very broad support in this Chamber for it beyond the government-opposition limits. In a group statement by the Finns of Peru, the idea was that we would only win a year if this intelligence legislation came into force quickly. On the other hand, you may think that even that year can be decisive. In 2015, the Swedish National Protection Police, Säpo, publicly announced that during the year, they had been able to prevent two terrorist attacks with renewed intelligence legislation. That year may be the crucial one, and I certainly do not want to be in response when the voter asks why you did not act when you should have acted. However, the purpose of this is precisely to protect the fundamental freedoms that the Constitution guarantees us, the protection of human life, the freedoms of Western citizens, but of course it is important, as has become the case here, particularly in the case of the opposition, that we note that this legislation must also contribute to safeguarding those civil liberties — for example, in the case of information security, it must not be jeopardised. But let's brush these laws here in Parliament with care. The Blue Parliamentary Group is in favour of a speedy reading of the law because we believe that there is a clear justification for it. I understand the need to hear the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and it is perfectly acceptable and quite reasonable, but on the other hand I hope that there will also be no arguments such as those that have indeed been made here in a group statement that we would save a 'only' year. That year could be crucial.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u123	President! Digitalisation and the development of IT technology have changed the world, and some of this change in the world unfortunately also have different mild phenomena around it, and there are also questions related to intelligence. That is why legislation must follow time, and I think that no one here today has denied the need to reform our legislation and that we are somewhat behind the rest of Europe. I am pleased to note today's debate. This shows from the power of Finnish democracy and Finnish parliamentaryism that there is, however, a common goal, largely consensus, despite certain critical findings, on issues of real importance. This legislation has already been carefully prepared, but further consideration must also be careful here in Parliament, in the committees. The committees should take their duties seriously with time. Mr Salolainen raised an important question in the debate about the role of the Committee on Intelligence in relation to the other committees. It is therefore important that the Committee on Intelligence does not remain, as it were, a secret society inside the wall here in the house. And even now that the Constitutional Committee, of which I myself am a member, is on the temple brush at the time of this debate, it is extremely important that PeVi be given peace of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u124	Madam President! A few things were not said about the previous speech. First of all, I would like to say emphatically that, now that these intelligence laws have come to Parliament, I warmly support the fact that they will be dealt with quickly and put into effect as soon as possible. Although it calls for an accelerated procedure for the adoption of this Constitution, it is nevertheless necessary, in the interest of importance, for us to take this package of laws, as it has been brought here very carefully, and for us to deal equally carefully with its committees, and then take decisions in this Chamber so that the laws can be put into effect as quickly as possible. In this present world, Finland simply cannot be without such legislation, which we are dealing with here. Mr Myllykoski here said that we cannot do anything about these trolls or the spreaders of false information or the scouts on our information networks. Indeed, at the moment we cannot do anything, because we do not know who is there. There could be anybody there. We don't have the means for the authorities to intervene when there's no law. But when these laws are enforced and intelligence initiated by legal means, we will have the instruments to catch up with these invisible information seekers or spreaders of false information. Until now, even now, we don't know who's in there. There's no way to follow them. Those James Bond days when a spy walked somewhere and had a briefcase in his hand and drove a fancy car, have been and gone. I'm sure there are still those types of data gatherers, but it's actually on the information networks. In my opinion, the fact that industrial espionage is enormous today, particularly on the civilian side, is too little attention in this debate. Horriblely large items of property, or rather information, are transferred to foreign kingdoms and are used to distribute malware, or to distribute invisible monitoring programmes that allow companies to access their data gradually. Now that these intelligence laws are in place and information about the networks which malware or viruses or anything else are circulating there is available, then we will have access to them too. It has been estimated that tens of millions of euros of damage has already been caused in Finland through computer networks, and everyone knows the horror scenario that if someone wants to influence the national electricity distribution network, for example, through anti-service attacks or malware from abroad, it is very easy to do so if someone goes in that direction. That is why we need this intelligence law, that we are able to combine data, obtain data by different means and possibly combine information that tells us what is happening outside our borders, and by combining and cooperating with other intelligence services, we are able to guarantee the safe lives of Finns in this country. It is clear that private e-mails and such e-mails are not being tampered with. After all, the official information on publicity has also been available that the messages that are being monitored online or the telecommunications, which are being monitored, are small, small parts of the pro mill. The vast majority of ordinary people's information that no one cares about. And who would be interested, even if I, representing Simon Elo, sent a message that it is raining in Ilomants at the moment, or not raining water, but being a beautiful freezer?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u127	Mr President! There has been an in-depth debate here on this whole and the need for this legislation has been shared, and that is exactly what Finland needs intelligence legislation. Finland needs intelligence legislation where we are able to ensure both the safety of citizens and to ensure the best possible protection of privacy. I think that these two things have already been reasonably well integrated in the current package, and I am sure that this is something that we can still work on and reflect on here in Parliament. But perhaps a few more comments on this debate. For myself, when this package is being reviewed, the question of trust, that is, of trust, which the citizen must trust. Actually, it has to do with three things: First of all, the citizen must be able to trust that the knowledge he has will not fall into the wrong hands. The citizen must be able to trust that the information about him will not fall into the wrong hands. It has to do with this precision. Secondly, the citizen must be able to rely on the fact that if someone is planning something that threatens the well-being of this citizen, the authority must have the opportunity to intervene. That is quite clear. Thirdly, the citizen must also be able to trust that the overseer will also have an overseer, who will then also be able to deal with possible abuses and see what is done with this information. These issues should now be very carefully covered here, as we are doing legislative work in Parliament and we will certainly get a good whole. And now to the end of the thought of this urgency. It is worth relying, to a large extent, on the expert assessment that we will receive here in the various committees and then make the final decision when the Constitutional Committee has also gone through this very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u128	Madam President! I think that Mr Rydman, who spoke in the Group of the European People's Party, well summed up the reasons why we need this legislation and also the reasons why it should be put into effect as quickly as possible. The world has changed dramatically, including with regard to serious crime, terrorism or espionage, and that is why our legislation to combat these crimes and threats must also be up-to-date. Unfortunately, in this respect the decision-makers in the last decades have not been up-to-date in Finland. That is why we have come to a strange situation in which, for our own national security, we have depended on the goodwill of many other countries in terms of information at the heart of our own national security. This legislation will finally bring a lasting improvement to this. Mr President! The reason for this haste, in my view, is also obvious. This is a whole package that will increase the security of society as a whole and must therefore be put into effect as quickly as possible. It is certainly the case, as many critics of this package see, that no legislation in itself will prevent a repeat of a terrorist attack such as the one in Turku, but at least the chances of preventing it will improve, in my opinion, at least in this respect. There is no room for waiting in this respect and there is no reason either. Mr President! The fact that this legislative package has been prepared for a long time and carefully, and that various parties, as well as stakeholders, have been involved in this preparation, is also in favour of rapid examination. As a result, concerns about citizens' fundamental rights, including privacy, have, in my view, been adequately addressed. These intelligence laws do not weaken the everyday life of a normal Finnish, but rather improve the security of each of us. However, it is good that these laws are being carefully reviewed once again in the relevant committees and with time. This will ensure that Finland receives the intelligence laws it needs to strengthen its security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u129	Mr President! The Group of the Party of European Socialists stated that matters set a timetable, not the other way round. This may well be the case, but in that sense the situation with regard to this legislation is as serious as it is, because it is precisely those issues that should be regulated. This debate has raised the issue of terrorism, the intelligence of foreign states towards Finland. Important questions, but I would like to make a few other examples of the situation we have been in when Finland has not had these powers. In view of these so-called Eastern border land trades, which have been publicly suspected of having some form of foreign and security policy links, the authorities today have not been able to investigate these trades and their backgrounds more closely than they have been able to study from public sources. That's a very serious question. Another example is the State Department's data leak, which was here the other day. Even the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which follows and supervises the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, first heard from Swedish television. We do not have the opportunity ourselves to notice this kind of data leak if we do not have sufficient intelligence legislative powers and therefore the ability to do so. In other words, such examples indicate that this is a broader issue than just public terrorism or traditional military threats. Of course, it should also be noted that the question which is why this is now being discussed here is, in particular, the Constitution. It seems that no one has any disagreement on this matter in itself; it is now a matter of urgency. In view of this, what has been said here today, as has been said by the Socialist Group, that we must know abroad that we are alert and prepared, it seems that we can even move forward with a speedy timetable, so that together we can say to the people, including the Socialist Group: 'don't worry, your young man is awake'!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u130	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which the Audit Committee, the Administrative Committee, the Legal Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u131	Mr President! A sufficiently effective monitoring of intelligence activities will protect national security. The control could not have been left to the internal control of the authorities alone. The monitoring system will meet all the requirements of the Constitution, international human rights obligations and the legal order of the European Union. In my previous speech on the previous point, I mentioned the Intelligence Commissioner and the Committee on Intelligence, and to that end the Intelligence Commissioner will be given strong powers to carry out judicial control. First of all, it has a wide right to information and is entitled to information from public authorities and other public administration officials on intelligence activities. The Intelligence Ombudsman may also carry out inspections at the premises of the authorities and other public administration officers. He or she may order the suspension or termination of the use of the intelligence method if he or she considers that he or she has committed unlawful acts in the field of intelligence. He may also order the destruction of illegally obtained information without delay. The intelligence officer may also inform the competent preliminary investigation authorities of the unlawful acquisition of information if he considers that the supervisory authority has acted unlawfully. Therefore, the control of the Intelligence Commissioner is both proactive, real-time and ex-post. It should be noted that the supervisor is not himself free from supervision. The Ombudsman of Parliament and the Chancellor of Justice of the Government is responsible for overseeing the activities of the Intelligence Commissioner. In my previous speech, I referred to the importance of monitoring the members of the Committee on Intelligence by means of legislation, that they observe that confidential, secret information is then kept secret and confidential and is not used, for example, to promote political purposes. I would like to highlight the various concerns raised earlier in the day's debate about the exceptionally large number of mandates proposed to the intelligence officer in relation to the intelligence authority. Mr President! The most important task for the government is to be responsible for national security, and in this intelligence legislation
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u132	Mr President! The proposal proposes to provide for a law on the supervision of intelligence activities. Parliamentary control of intelligence would be exercised by the Parliamentary Committee on Intelligence. The task of the Committee on Intelligence would be to assess the priorities of intelligence activities, their relevance and effectiveness, and to monitor and promote compliance with law and fundamental and human rights in intelligence activities. The committee is being proposed extensive rights of information and powers, and this is in principle correct. However, the members of the Committee on Intelligence must be subject to an in-depth security check, and the size of the group must be kept small, because the committee has access to hard intelligence and there must be no leaks. I'm a little pessimistic about these leaks, but it's always worth a shot. However, the penalties for leaking offences should be severe. The law enforcement of intelligence activities would be carried out by an intelligence officer responsible for monitoring the legality of the use of intelligence methods and the implementation of fundamental and human rights in intelligence activities. He would also be required to submit an annual report on his activities to Parliament, the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Government. I would prefer the reporting to be twice a year. It is clear that the parliamentary control system for intelligence must be reformed and should take into account, among other things, the protection of fundamental rights, international human rights obligations and EU law, for example, as regards individual rights. There has not been a parliamentary supervisory body in Finland specifically responsible for monitoring intelligence activities. That is also why I consider this proposal to be timely and important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u133	Mr President! This law is on the right track, i.e. a law will then be drawn up to monitor these intelligence authorities. In this case, the drafting of the law has been carried out carefully and precisely so that the supervisory bodies which are being created by this law are certainly competent and have sufficient means to obtain the necessary information to carry out their work on the basis of this law. The Committee on Intelligence to be set up in Parliament is an extremely good institution and acts just as any of the current parliamentary committees do. It will require certain changes to the rules of this house, of course, but of course they will. And when this committee has very extensive rights to information, it will certainly be able to do its work in such a way that it creates good parliamentary control over this whole system and creates credibility for the whole system. Then, too, this intelligence officer, whose duties are also set up by this law, will be given enormous powers to monitor this intelligence activity. If he considers that any intelligence activity has been inappropriate and the related information has been inappropriate and irrelevant, he has full authority, the right, the right to terminate such intelligence activity and order all such information from that inquiry to be destroyed. In other words, there is no black or white area in which this committee and the intelligence officer operate, but they have a clear legal mandate to act on a very large scale and to ensure that the law is strictly respected, as required by our Constitution. Finally, Mr President, the fact that these new institutions, which are now being set up, are extremely important, but they do not remove the very normal Finnish authorities which already exist. We still have the Ombudsman, we still have the Chancellor of Justice: we still have the Data Protection Supervisor and many other officials. This is just an addition to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u134	Mr President! It must be acknowledged that the world is changing, and I think it is necessary to start thinking about how these changes in the intelligence law will be handled. These laws must be carefully prepared to ensure that we have adequate protection of privacy. However, in the future, intelligence legislation will tie up a huge number of man-years of work, and I drew attention to the fact that when the financial frameworks are seen in the future, when this matter is ready, it must not lead to a situation where, from our regulatory control, resources and money will be concentrated on this intelligence activity and taken out of field activity, which means that in sparsely populated areas, the control of the authorities will be weakened. I think it has been a worrying feature of these government measures that money has always been taken away from something. I hope that attention will now also be paid to the fact that in sparsely populated areas, public authorities are sufficiently strong, even after the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u135	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Audit Committee, the Legal Committee, the Transport and Communications Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u136	Mr President! The main objective of the legislation proposed by the Government in its proposal is to improve national security and create a legal basis for intelligence. This is a good basis for the presentation, even so good that supporting it is a patriotic act. With the government's proposal, the new intelligence powers would only be available to the protection police and will also be in force abroad. The new legislation will allow better information to be obtained on projects or activities that seriously threaten Finland’s national security. In view of the benefits this would bring to the ordinary citizen, it can be said that acts that undermine national security ultimately affect ordinary citizens and their rights. Victims of terrorist acts can also be individuals, individual citizens. For example, espionage has adverse effects on the economy, which may even be reflected in the employment situation. Telecommunications intelligence is used to safeguard a stable and democratic society, which is in the interests of all Finns. Maybe someone's also wondering if the intelligence is targeting his e-mails or phone calls. However, this is not a question of mass control in the future, but of targeted intelligence. The aim is to apply for communication services that are essential for the tasks of the protection police by means of limited application criteria. It is proposed to specify exactly how the allocation will take place. Of course, in the field of telecommunications intelligence, there is also information to the authorities in the field of communications that is not related to a situation threatening national security. In such a case, the information would be destroyed immediately with the presentation. There will be no negative changes for an honest citizen in the future, even if this proposal is adopted. Only his own safety will improve, and that is in his interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u137	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Audit Committee, the Administrative Committee, the Legal Committee and the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u138	Mr President! The proposal proposes to provide for a law on military intelligence with the aim of updating the Defence Forces Intelligence legislation and meeting the requirements of the Constitution and of international obligations binding on Finland. Military intelligence monitors developments in the security environment and produces information to support senior security policy management and military decision-making, and it gives advance warning of the military threat to Finland and supports other authorities. Is it even possible to criticise patriotism? New forms of warfare, international terrorism, the tightening of the political climate in Finland's neighbouring areas, the Baltic Sea and the Arctic force us to act for our own benefit. No one is physically affected by intelligence, and an ordinary citizen does not even notice it. However, it is very important for the security of Finland. Military preparedness has been developed during this reign, and now it is time to modernise military intelligence legislation to reflect the present. It must be understood that the intelligence activities of foreign countries targeting Finland have also increased and the need to defend ourselves against cyber attacks is also most obvious to us. We should have much better foresight and it comes through intelligence. I am definitely in favour of reforming military intelligence laws. We need an efficient and preferably time ahead of the late intelligence. Once we know what kind of threat we should be prepared for, we will also be able to allocate the resources correctly. If this law is not adopted as a matter of urgency, there is a risk that the ability of the authorities to prepare and prevent security threats will be significantly lower than they could be, and the risk will increase that security threats to Finland will not be identified in time. I therefore consider it important that this government proposal be adopted as a matter of urgency, because it is in the interests of all of us honest citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u139	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 1/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-20-ps-9.u140	Mr President! According to the proposal, it is proposed, inter alia, to reduce the time limit for reinstatement of the dismissed official. It is proposed to reduce the duration of the readmission obligation for workers made redundant on economic and production grounds from 9 months to 4 months. However, in the case of long-term contracts of more than 12 years, the readmission obligation shall be 6 months. The obligation to take back is the same as in Chapter 6 of the Employment Contracts Act6§ after the entry into force of the proposed amendment the obligation to take back, as laid down. In addition, the proposed provision requires that the employer, within that period, needs a postholder for an indefinite period of office or longer than 6 months. However, as regards this condition, the regulation of that length corresponds to Article 46 of the Municipal Act, which provides for a period of 9 months for the readmission obligation. Article 32 of the State Civil Service Act provides for a 24-month readmission period. In an expert consultation with the committee, church staff organisations pointed out that the proposed changes are likely to undermine the position of church officials in many respects. The effects of these changes should therefore be closely monitored. It is clear that those in church service should be treated equally in law, regardless of the quality of employment. It is equally important that the provisions of the Church Act on the employment relationship follow the regulation of other employees and officials to the extent that the regulation is appropriate to the needs of the church. On the basis of the above considerations, I consider the Government's proposal to be quite necessary and appropriate.
