ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 4/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Presentation of the report, chairman of the committee, Mrs Filatov, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u2	Mr President! First of all, I have signed an objection, but I am now presenting what the majority in the committee has decided. In other words, it has been a matter of ensuring and improving the conditions of employment of the so-called zero-contractors and their working conditions, and this is a whole amendment to the employment contract law, the working time law, the law on the supervision of health and safety at work, the law on co-operation in the field of health and safety at work and the law on unemployment security, that is to say, the whole of the whole of the working life we regulate from the employee's point of view. The purpose of this law is to improve and ensure the position of workers who respect variable working hours, [Fresh—The President-in-Office] The starting point of the law is that the use of variable working hours would be limited to situations where the employer really needs variable working hours from the perspective of the workforce. This is the background to the citizens' initiative, from which the process has partly started. That is where the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities presented its own report, and this is what the government has proposed since then. In that report already at the time, the committee felt that it was necessary to find a solution by legislation or other means to better regulate the working conditions or working conditions of people with zero hours or varying working hours. In other words, the first major change here is that the use of the variable working time condition must be in line with the need for labour. This provision assumes that minimum working time should not be less than what is required by the employer's labour force, but this still allows the minimum working time to be zero. In the view of the Committee, it is difficult for the worker to assess the actual need for hours worked by the employer and the need for the use of the labour force at the stage of concluding an agreement, whether it is fixed or genuinely variable. Well, this law provides that, on the basis of six months of actual hours, it can then be determined whether the need for a change in working time has been met. And if there is no agreement on minimum working time after this, i.e. the employee and the employer do not agree, then the employer is obliged to state in writing the factual reasons why the working time is the same size as it is or why it varies in the fork as it varies. In this regard, the committee considered that labour law in general should be based on the principle of worker protection and that this new regulation strengthens the position of the weaker party, i.e. the worker. However, the mechanism by which this working time is examined has been proposed to be very vague in terms of regulation, and when it does not contain any more specific provisions on how these negotiations should be conducted and at what stage they should be organised, in that sense the status of workers may not be strengthened as much as this provision envisages, but will be reduced. Then the second thing in this law relates to the schedule of shifts and the consent to further work. Thus, additional work is done on the initiative of the employer in addition to regular working hours, but the additional working time may not exceed the regular working hours laid down by law, locally agreed or exceptional. In the case of zero-hour contractors or in the case of variable-workers, the law assumes that when a contract of employment is concluded, the obligation to perform additional work should no longer be automatically agreed upon, and when an employer makes a schedule, it must have these minimum hours agreed upon, and if it is applied for hours, then the employee has the right to refuse them, and then it is regulated in a different way in terms of time and method. In its debate and report, the committee considered that, on the one hand, we have the number of people who work part-time, where there may be an obligation to provide additional work, and now we are in a situation where, for some of the workers, additional hours of work must always be agreed for the worker, and, for some of the workers, we have a situation where the employer can put additional hours on the list without the worker having the opportunity to refuse them, and since this is going to be a disproportionate situation, this should be clarified in the future as to whether they can be coordinated or whether there is a need to do so. The third point of amendment, which is contained in this law, relates to the way in which unemployment benefit is determined, and here there is a clear improvement in the situation we currently have. So at the moment, if a person has resigned from a job where he has, for example, between 0 and 35 hours but has not had an hour’s work for a long time, this has resulted in a degree of toughness — it has been considered that he has resigned from his own job, as it were, even though he has actually had no work at all. In the future, the situation is that if the hours are zero, you can resign without looking at the resignation card on top, or if the pay is so low and the hours worked are so small that the salary is below what you can get adjusted daily allowance, then that right of resignation would also exist. The committee made a few minor clarifications on the text of the articles, but they do not have any substance and substance; they are mainly technical.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u3	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u4	Madam President! Zero-hour contracts are a growing problem in society, estimated at over 80,000 people working on these and a significant part against their will. As we have heard here, these are, in particular, a growing problem in the care and care sector. It is good that we have now tackled this issue and tried to find those solutions. Unfortunately, I am tabling an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1, and I would argue that there are far too loose criteria here to prevent abuse of zero-hour contracts. This proposal states that, according to what is required by the need for labour, it is possible to determine whether these can be used, but in practice it is still possible to make zero. In other words, this bill consolidates zero-hour contracts into Finnish working life, which is why I find it particularly challenging. There are also good proposals here, with regard to the pay for sickness and notice periods, but they should also be fair and moderated. On the other hand, this proposal also lacks the consolidation of working time. So, as we know, if you are doing a certain amount of hours for a certain period of time, it would be good if we, in the legislation, had also given a clear backstop to the fact that the working time actually settles in a certain number of hours. After all, this is no longer a ‘zero hour contract’ but has changed the government into a ‘variable working time Unfortunately, however, this proposal does not eliminate the problems as a whole with regard to this growing number of zero-hour contracts. But now that there's a minister here, I'd like to ask you one more time: Can you clearly define for me what this firm need for labour means? For example, can I take ten workers on a zero-hour contract and commission them for what hours? Can you open this entry more clearly?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u5	Mr President! Firstly, I warmly support the objection presented by Mr Nurminen and the proposed amendments to the section, and the reasons for this are that the proposals put forward by the government do not sufficiently improve the position of workers on a zero-hour contract, even though small improvements are now coming. After all, it is now the case that the zero-hour contracts are formalised, but the legislation does not guarantee sufficient security for workers. The position of workers remains weak. The basic problem remains the same, and it will be very difficult for workers to claim their own rights. The Government's approach to the measures is too rigid in relation to the shortcomings raised in the committee's hearings and expert opinions. This is not changed by the fact that the government no longer wants to talk about ‘the workers working on a zero-hour contract’ as variable working time workers. Zero-hour contracts also lead to an increase in poverty, because they contribute to creating a trap of incentives and putting people into the use of income support and even make it difficult to pay the subsidy. This is due to the fact that the total amount of actual work and the wages received and the income needed to live is blurry and inadequate and, often, even a small amount of work, it may take an excessive amount of time. However, daily expenditure is constant and regular. Mr President! In this context, I cannot help but wonder how much workers' rights and employment security have been undermined during this government. Among other things, compulsory laws, holiday payments cuts, extension of probation periods, withdrawal of readmission obligations and cuts in unemployment benefit from the weakest are these disadvantages.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u8	Mr President! I have also objected to the motion in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. In the opinion of the Finns Party, it is good that part-time work can be offered flexibly to groups of workers such as students who want part-time work themselves. This will also make it possible to respond better to the challenges facing both society and working life. On the other hand, the proposed provisions are insufficient to address the shortcomings in the practice of a variable working time agreement. Similarly, we welcome the fact that the present proposal can at least partially respond to the so-called problem of matching between the labour market needs of the various companies and the so-called "competence" of the various skilled workers, which is a major obstacle to the labour market in the past. We are also pleased with the development that the possibility of providing flexible part-time work is still being maintained in the so-called Palette of working life at the same time as dealing with practical shortcomings. This proposal also contains problems that can lead to abuse of the workforce. The target group for regulation is limited to a limited number of part-time workers, which puts different groups of part-time workers at a disadvantage. This is usually the kind of development that we Finns consider harmful in Finnish society. The so-called "flexibility elements" previously identified in the Government's proposal thus lose their purpose because of the new possibility of agreement. All part-time workers must have such a one-off additional employee's consent removed for the sake of equality. That is why we are tabling an amendment in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u9	Mr President! It has been said here, particularly with regard to the Social Democrats, that this is a proposal in the right direction but inadequate. I would like to be positive here and look at your statement, your point of view, in a good way, in the right direction, a good step in the right direction. If I think about the zero-hour contracts, then when I myself have once been a restaurant worker myself as a young student on a zero-hour contract and it fits the life situation — as a student it was flexible, and the job was given when it was needed, and the employer also offered them when it was appropriate for them — so I would not deny zero-hour contracts altogether. But when we know that they are in any case, that is realism, then the rules of the game must be in order. For example, considering that zero-hour contracts should no longer be agreed if there is a need for more or less the same number of hours each week, it is very good to bring such rules into the labour market. I understand that the Social Democrats believe that this is a policy in the right direction. If it is inadequate, you can tell us why it is inadequate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u10	Let us take a few comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u11	Mr President! If we are talking about studying and a zero-hour contract, I would ask you to point out that it does not require it. The student must have a telephone to which he can answer, and the employer can call. It's called freelance. There are already rules, there are already agreements. If we are talking about a zero-hour contract, whatever it is now called, for example, a variable working time agreement, then, Minister, what about this active model if a person has this zero-hour contract and does not get 18 hours of work in three months? Is his unemployment benefit being vaccinated because now a law is being drawn up, which once and for all confuses the labour market, deprives workers of any kind of protection from the work they do?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u12	Madam President! I'm surprised at the terms Mr. Elon used. Indeed, as Mr Tolppanen said, it is perhaps good to get to know this and to distinguish between these two things. This law was exhausted by the most essential thing that would have had to be taken care of at this point, that is, the accumulated hours of work, that they become constant. By doing so, we would be better able to develop the supply of varied work so that one can be confident that if he has had 20 hours a week this month and this year, for example, it will be his standard in the following year when the number of hours accumulated in the long run can be shown. That is what is missing, which is a really great loss and makes this performance a torso.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u13	Mr President! Of course, even minor work is better than no work at all. But the problem with this law is that it starts from the fact that the worker still has to be the one who fights with the employer for what the established working time is. In the case of sick leave — if the sick leave lasts longer than the hours listed on the work schedule — in order to receive the pay for the current actual working hours, these hours must have been four times more than six months, four times more than six months. In fact, it may be that a person has been working for six months in such a way that they are three-and-a-half times, but they will still receive a minimum sickness allowance in the future. And that is why we should have applied for established working hours and related rules. This is the same situation when you consider, for example, dismissal, which then determines what the salary of that period is if the employer or employee terminates the employment relationship. This law still leaves the worker alone to fight for that established working time. There is not even a mechanism in which a representative or a little more collective could be involved, and these are the shortcomings. That is why we have made our own proposal to correct these. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u14	The answer will be one minute’s talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u15	Mr President! This clearly improves agreements and practices. This is not where the employee is left alone. He can bring in an assistant under this law. The purpose of this law is precisely to seek that the work is carried out to the extent necessary. The employer has a specific need and, if necessary, must be able to live in such a way that the employee is able to negotiate or plan his or her own working time in such a way that he or she adapts his or her leisure time and possibly other work, if this work is not entirely a full-time job. This is precisely the improvement that TyV has made as a result of this zero-hour agreement and the citizens' initiative, and I believe that this is a combination of the fact that all the work in Finland must be able to do, and then that it is done in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u16	Madam President! Now this really is a way of creating clear rules for a zero-hour contract and remedying the worst of it. It should be noted that, although these problems were known, previous governments have not addressed this issue. That is why it seems quite incomprehensible that the demarches and the left-wing coalition here are claiming that there is a deterioration in the interests here. What were you doing last season when you were on the board? Nothing about this. It was important for the centre that, in this debate on the zero-hour contracts, the shortcomings were corrected and the rules of the game were clarified and a balanced solution was reached. It is good to remember that the present situation really improves with the workers. The employee's right to sick leave and pay notice will be strengthened, the main shortcomings in unemployment security will be corrected, and there will be clarity in unemployment security. This new law reduces the uncertainty and unpredictability of people working under a variable working time contract and facilitates the management of employees’ schedules, life management. This is a very important and good solution and a bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u17	Madam President! There may be some conclusions that have been taken too far. Here Mr Elo said that the opposition is celebrating, as it were, that there are good improvements here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u18	Mr President! There have been very worrying reports of this dramatic decrease in the number of children. The birth rate has fallen, and there have been numerous complaints here on various occasions about this phenomenon, and the very central reason is the uncertainty,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u21	Mr President! Here the government parties have now been acclaimed that there are rules of play for a zero-hour contract. Have you asked these young people who have taken this citizens' initiative, do they agree that there was enough going on here? Mr Suutari here said that this is a significant improvement that in the future the employee can now involve the assistant in the negotiations with the employer. The Government parties did not even have the right to be informed about the use of these zero-hour contracts when this law was discussed. Even the information from the employer to the personnel groups was not available to this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u24	Let me give you five more answers: Mr Viitanen, Mr Suutari, Mr Elo, Mr Hongisto and Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u25	Mr President! It is a good thing to continue with this, namely that uncertainty in the labour market, especially for young women, has certainly increased to a very worrying extent during this period of government. I, Minister, am now looking at you here and I ask how this kind of situation is going to happen, that at first the labour market will be weakened by the threat of forced labour, then the reduction of holiday money, then this very offensive active model, then the unjustified short-term jobs for young people, the kick law — which is also coming — and then this, which was supposed to be an improvement, will remain a torso and the rules of the game will not be settled enough. Minister, could you answer me: why on earth do you want to undermine the labour market, the position of workers, and how do you see the future of young people in this uncertain world, if they are allowed to do these unjustified short-term jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u26	Mr President! This is precisely how to reduce the uncertainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u31	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma is quite right to be concerned about whether young people in Finland today have enough children, whether our birth rate is in order and what it means for the state economy and what it means in a human way. This is a concern we can share. Perhaps there is a difference of perspective where I think Mr Filatov well said that ‘we will have better work to do’. Well, so do we see that it is better to have work, and that is why these legislative proposals as a whole are made in order to make it possible to work as well as possible, but there are also clear rules of play for it, as in the case of zero-hour contracts. If we look a little further, then both the Social Democrats and the Blue Future have their own social security model, and it is good to bring these to the table gradually. The world now seems to be doing so, both in Europe and outside, that there are zero-hour contracts for which there must be rules of the game as this goes on, but then there is also a need for an incentive for basic security, so that even with a lower salary you can take work profitably, and then the state will, so to speak, give some support for itself. This is the future, I dare say.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u33	Mr President! I don't think this is about squatting either the poor or the young. Mr Lindtman asked if you asked the young people how they felt about this. I have received feedback from young people, specifically positive feedback that when young people have hobbies or studies, it is good that they can do this part-time work, and now there are even some kind of rules for this work. When rules of the game are drawn up, someone might use a phrase that is wrong to have been turned off. However, this government has been able to draw up rules and, as has been said in many of these speeches, rules can be improved if weaknesses are seen, but this government has taken the path towards the best possible legislation. The aim is precisely to help young people, to create a sense of security for young people through this legislation that can continue to be flexible in working, studying, engaging and working, and many young people consider this bill to be a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u34	At this point, one more reply, Mr Satonen, will then be answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u35	Mr President! It is a good thing that the rules have been laid down for zero agreements, but I must say that when you listen to what the opposition has said, I feel that there is no power to see that more people are working than they are at the moment when this government started, and that would not have happened if the government had not made the political choices it has made. Of course, it has been a good thing that the social partners have been involved in part, but you have consistently opposed any change that has increased employment. People who have been given jobs, those who have been employed in an entire employment relationship — not everyone has, but many have — have made a living of EUR 1 000 a month. Surely they are better equipped in life to plan their own lives than if this had not been accomplished? The biggest achievement of this government is that the employment rate has risen enormously
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u36	And then at this point, the minister will answer, no more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for the discussion and thank you for the positive feedback but also for the criticism. There's always a place to pet. Let's start with what this came for in the first place. The government already had ideas on this, but of course there was also this citizens' initiative. At some point in those discussions there was such a goal that these zero-hour contracts would be banned altogether. However, there is a need for a variable working time agreement, this zero-hour contract, in working life. The prohibition of contracts could lead to the fulfilment of its labour needs in some other way, such as temporary agency work, self-employed work, fixed-term contracts of a job or additional or overtime with existing staff. Many of the speakers then asked about the problem of the legal consolidation of working time. Of course, we always have to weigh this on both sides. The idea that we have had in this legislation is that this consolidation could mean that during a period of time it could constitute a fixed working time in a contract of employment, and this could happen even if there had been no change in the conditions under which the employer offered the job. Thus, the employer's labour needs could still vary. Statutory consolidation could therefore lead to a non-corresponding working conditions which the employer could unilaterally change only on an economic or productive basis. In such a situation, the employer should pay wages for periods for which there is no job offer. This cost would be out of place and would reduce the employer's ability to recruit staff for other tasks. This stabilization model could also be subject to this kind of unwanted labour planning. The employer could seek to influence the number of fixed hours of work through the timing and dimensioning of his job offers. If it were to happen now that variable working hours were unlawfully agreed so that there was an agreement on variable labour needs of this kind, even though the employer's labour needs were fixed, then the condition of variable working hours would then be null and void. In this case, the working time applicable shall be the fixed working time corresponding to the employer's actual labour needs. This will in many ways improve the possibilities for a worker to plan his or her life, and variable working time should be agreed at all only when the labour needs covered by the agreement vary. The employer shall, at the beginning of the employment relationship, provide an explanation of the situation and the extent to which the employer is in need of labour. The minimum working time included in the variable working time clause must meet the real need. This will protect the employee. So this is a bill that first provides for zero-hour contracts, for the first time in the history of Finland, and although this receives criticism from the opposition — including thanks but more criticism — in any case this game has now been opened, and I believe that this is a big step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u38	Let's go on the list for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u39	Yes, a step has been taken and, fortunately, this time in the right direction, but unfortunately the step was very short. During this debate, the opposition has been accused of claiming that this law is making things worse. I have not heard anyone from the opposition argue that this is the case. On the other hand, the opposition has expressed quite a lot of criticism that this legislation does not solve the problems of the zero agreements and that there are structural defects in this legislation that do not exist in good law. What are the issues that remained unresolved from the point of view of the zero-Contracters? Well, first of all, I don't think there's anyone in this room who actually thinks it's fair that if that employer doesn't offer a job, not an hour, then the employee has to wait three months — three months — to hang on without a job in that contract before he can terminate the contract of employment, without getting a degree of unemployment benefit. It is a very long time at a time when the labour market is moving fast, things are changing fast and people should be able to react quickly. It is far too long if the employer has not had to offer one hour of work for three months. Another major problem, which relates to this, is that when we traditionally have the whole of labour law based on the idea and understanding that the employee is the weaker party in the negotiations and is not necessarily able to negotiate with the employer on the terms of the work, this bill has not left this base-case. I have done my entire career before my parliamentary career by studying people in different pre-arranged employment relationships, and I have not noticed any tendence there that would justify a fundamental change in the way in which we regulate working life. We still have a lot of people on the labour market who are so weak in the labour market, people with so few chips that there is no way of thinking that they would dare to challenge illegality or abuse and, on the other hand, they would have the resources and the know-how to carry it through, as is supposed to be the case with this law. If we think of a person who has a lack of language skills, a relatively low level of education and very few other employment opportunities, it is not realistic at all to think that he would go into a process of possibly months or even years to get the terms of a zero-hour agreement for his model, all alone. The third and, in my view, perhaps the biggest problem with this bill is that, when this has been the result of an awful long process and many things have been tried and negotiated with many people, the final solution that has been reached will produce two almost identical forms of contract for part-time work on the labour market. In practice, the only differences between the fixed part-time contract model and the variable working time contract model are that in the second, the minimum number of hours is in principle zero and in the other, and then the one person has the right to refuse to accept additional work for all eternity, and in the other, such a concession can be granted. These are the actual differences between the two models, and everyone understands that they are so small that these separate contractual models could be very coordinated. Well, why should they be reconciled? Because, now that we are producing different contract models that are very close to each other, it leads to another step in more complex legislation, which means that at workplaces we may have some workers with different rights competing for the same hours at the same workplace, and then the employer has to control this whole — plus that it means that it is more difficult for an individual worker to understand and find out what his rights are and to stick to them. I think this is a hama. I cannot imagine who will benefit from the fact that we are being complicated when there is no clear reason to do so, and I hope that at least this will be corrected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u40	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for bringing this proposal — and in a rather timely manner — which has now been dealt with by the committee. When you hear the debate, you can also see this in a great many ways within the opposition. Perhaps I would not see this as such a gloomy presentation as is seen here on the left side of the opposition. However, this is clearly the case. [Caribbean interlude call] This government's proposal is based on the citizens' initiative and its consideration in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities and the conditions which were then discussed here, and it went to the ministry, as it were. At the time, Minister Lindström promised to go over this matter and there were various processes, including this tripartite working group, which was not even unanimous in its own proposal. I think it tells me that this is not quite an easy and simple matter. There are many stages here, and there always seems to be contradictions. But I agree with the Minister, and many others here agree that this has moved forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u43	Mr President! Now we are dealing with this legislative reform, which is therefore about varying working hours, and that is precisely what it is about. It is quite a long way ago to any kind of amateur population science from what the low birth rate in Finland is due to. [Interjection from the Socialist Group] This creates a more predictable situation for the worker, a more balanced setting at the workplace. This working schedule regulation also makes it easier for people to know their future hours, as Mr Suutari said here, to maintain and implement more contracts. This is at least our wish so that, at best, this could even increase the supply of labour and employment. In addition, we learn in committee that in many large groups of employees, in any case, collective agreements create clearly stronger regulation than this regulation is intended to achieve. That is the Nordic way in which collective agreements are agreed on a sectoral and contractual basis. And then the point that seems to me in this criticism of the opposition is that Parliament required — and wisely required — that the total work carried out in Finland by virtue of this law should not be reduced. This is so important. We, as a nation as a whole, lack working hours so that we can finance our welfare promises, and we need more working hours. This is an aspect that should tone all these debates down. In my view, the view of the opposition is strongly bound to be that they are certainly sincerely trying to prevent all kinds of adverse situations for workers, but do they feel any remorse in preventing contractual arrangements which, however, could be beneficial to both parties and which both sides want? If we were acting on the same principle in the Transport Act, we would ban driving or crossing the street, and certainly it could improve safety in some sense, but it would make life difficult. I couldn't believe that the old Labour Party, of which I too have many experiences, put itself behind this original initiative, which would have simply banned zero agreements or set a lower limit for partiality. This would certainly have prevented a large number of agreements that would have brought more work to Finland. Certainly, mountain by mountain, it would have reduced employment and hours worked. I also find these opposition word choices so revealing when Mr Nurminen said that in practice it is still possible to agree to zero and that it has now been formalised in some way. To date, it has not been in any way grey or criminal or illegal. It has been in a free society in which the agreement prevails, and it must be possible, in a free society — where it is in the interest of both parties themselves, it must be possible. There must always be a very strong argument for restricting freedom of contract. There has also been talk of this stabilisation of working time. That is already in the current legislation, and there are a reasonable number of such cases, but over many decades we have learned that it has proved very difficult to create some sort of automatic mechanism for establishing working time. And in any case, all this criticism must be counterbalanced by the fact that we are trying to create opportunities for work for people who do not yet have it. Indeed, even in this reform, which now increases regulation, there is a risk that it may reduce the supply of work opportunities from some companies. That is the risk, but this is what we now considered a reasonable compromise in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u44	Let us take a few comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u45	Mr President! Indeed, when you cross the road, there is a barrier and there are traffic lights — that is, there is regulation. And there is a need for regulation in working life, especially for the benefit of its weaker party. A person who is a young person who is looking for his or her working life experience is very unprotected to have equal negotiations with his or her employer. After all, the whole idea of labour law is to protect the weaker party. It's called regulation. It is in working hours in this way, and it is also in the minimum conditions for contractual activities. If we give this up, then we'll weaken the terms of employment and go back to... Let us not move forward, Mr Vartiainen — who, although I believe, left the Chamber. Let us not go forward, let us go back a hundred years, where minimum protection for workers started. This has been the concern of these young people who have approached Parliament and hoped that they would be protected from the Parliament. It's what these kids want. And of course, it has an effect on starting a family.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u46	Madam President! Yes, it was earlier that people asked what young people wanted. We have a wide range of young people. There are those young people who are behind this zero-hour agreement and here they are given a lot of reception so that they can obtain better protection, which the previous government, among other things, was unable to do. But as I have mentioned before, there were young people here last week who said that you should give us any job you want. They are those young people who are at real risk of exclusion. This is good for us in this Chamber to see that we are not talking about the elderly, not young people, not unemployed job seekers as one lump. There are many different faces and life stories. With this answer on the zero hour agreement, which the government, thank you, Minister Lindström, has brought here, we are helping one group. But there are other kinds of young people and they need different solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u47	Madam President! Replying to Mr Viitane, who previously criticised the reform agreed in the Government spending limits debate, which made it easier to hire
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u48	Mr President! This seems to me to be quite typical of Mr Zyskowicz that we should start with words.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u53	Madam President! Of course, considering the situation of youth unemployment, which is 20% on both sides in this country, is what is worrying. Of course, it is not quite clear what kind of proposal the government is going to bring, but of course it is intended, as the Prime Minister said in his radio hour, to make it possible for young people to get something extra that makes sense to hire a young person for the first job. As far as this bill is concerned, it is then that improvements are being made here. Despite what the opposition has said, your protests — thank you for that — also state that these changes are heading in the right direction, that is to say, going in the right direction. Of course, the opposition will always say that all improvements are insufficient, but nevertheless, when you look at the big picture, Finland's economy and employment are growing, 90 000 people have been employed. I am sure you think that this is inadequate, but I think it was quite sufficient that, during your reign, when 100,000 people lost the job, we have turned it the other way around.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u54	Madam President! Mr Viitanen has just been practicing his future May Day speech here, which will certainly work well at the Tampere Square but will not work in this Chamber. I criticised the fact that you demars have been responsible for this reform, which we are now talking about, for the fact that it leads to the chaining of young people, the constant chaining of young people, the eternal chaining up of young people, the only way to get into such fixed-term jobs, and now I ask you, Mr Viitanen... — Don’t ask Lindtman for advice, everyone is responsible for their own speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u55	Congressman Viitanen, you have a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u61	Mr President! So when Mrs Zyskowicz talks about the fact that her words, when she speaks, have to be listened to very carefully, it usually requires small legal studies. I am in the middle of them, but I always listen to him here very carefully, and when Mr Zyskowicz said today that the government will facilitate the conclusion of new contracts of employment, what does he actually mean? It does not make it any easier that there is no need to justify the conclusion of a fixed-term contract of employment, the employment relationship. A fixed-term contract of employment will be made easier, of course, because there is no need to justify it. When you talk about chaining, I think it was the case that Prime Minister Sipilä began to speak about chaining. He said in his reply to Question Time's ministerial committee, or was it in his interview, I no longer remember, but in any case Prime Minister Sipilä remembered this chaining problem. That is not the point of this 30-year-old issue that you are talking about now, Mr Zyskowicz. The point is that you are working on weaker working conditions for under 30-year-olds, which the Central Youths are opposed to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u62	Mr President! I would like to return to Mr Vartiainen's speech, in which, in my opinion, there was one great wisdom: he said that hours worked were the essential measure. Unfortunately, however, when we look at the situation at the moment, the April Labour Force Survey tells us that the number of hours worked has decreased from one year ago. It has decreased by 0.4 percentage points, and hours become the amount of work. The reason why we are criticising, whether it be fixed-term contracts or too loose regulation of zero-hour contracts, is that these allow job shredding, but they do not necessarily bring more work into our society, and that additional work is certainly our common endeavour — at least I believe that this is what we have in common with Zyskowicz. But I'd like to talk about this three months. How can it be that three months of unemployment is too long and therefore age-discriminating legislation for young people, under 30 years of age, but three months of zero hours has a reasonable time? Before doing so, you must not resign from such an employment relationship, which does not provide any hours of work. Why this three-month period is too long in the second, which means that we need to make our labour legislation weaker, but those who are
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u63	Let us take five more replies, then let us go to the list of speakers — Mr Suutari, Mr Tolppanen, Mr Karimäki, Mr Kontula and Mr Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u64	Mr President! We, at least in the committee, had a much better atmosphere to think that we are improving working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u67	Mr President! I am also amazed at why zero should be allowed at all. If an employer needs employees, he certainly does not need to work for zero. But let's take a little bit of that chaining. There is no definition of how many chains can be in a row. It is defined in the current law only in such a way that, if necessary, it is a completely different matter. We'll find it there, Mr. Zyskowicz, when we start taking this forward. But what must now be considered here: Among other things, it was said here that the use of an assistant is now possible. I tell you, hear that until now it has been possible to use an assistant. The assistant is referred to as a shop steward or a vice-chairman, and every workplace can have a shop steward, and the shop steward always has the right to participate when the employee talks with the employer. This bill does not change this fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u68	Madam President! It is good to have different options in the labour market. Many students want to do a certain number of hours of work, some companies need seasonal labour, but on the other hand the problem is that there have been too many zero-hour contracts that workers do not want. It is therefore a good thing that legislation has finally come into being, which regulates zero-hour contracts and makes the conclusion of zero-hour contracts less attractive and improves workers' rights. The Greens are therefore in favour of this government's proposal. Important concerns have also been expressed in this debate, and it is good and very important that this legislation is monitored. Mr Vartiainen said in his own speech that this could potentially undermine the desire of employers to employ, but on the other hand the protection of workers is an extremely important and important issue. I would like Minister Lindström to tell us how it is thought to monitor the functioning of this labour law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u69	Mr President! In my opinion, the zero agreement can also be justified, for example, in a situation where it is a matter of a student whose primary wish is to attend the lectures and seminars required for his studies. As the minimum number of hours also binds the employee, it may sometimes be relevant that the contract is drawn up on a zero contract basis. But that does not mean that there is no need for worker protection. Mr Heikkinen, every Monday, when the Parliament does not meet, I am visited by young people who have been given any job. Then, together, we will try to find out how to get them the wages promised for the job, how to deal with the other abuses associated with the employment relationship that companies have taken advantage of these inexperienced young people. And we're trying to figure out how to get social security to fit into all the mess that's involved in the employment relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u70	Madam President! I am a happy person that during my studies I have actually been able to work through zero-hour contracts. They helped me study so that I didn't have to take out a loan. I have also been able to work as a young nurse in Koukkuniemi, Tampere, through dozens of fixed-term contracts, and I was very grateful that it was possible to do so. It is also worth noting who protects those small businesses that offer jobs, when, in principle, you have to think that companies are not obliged to employ anyone. They have no duty, they take people to work because they need it. In this legislation, in the solution of the zero-hour contract, which we are talking about here,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u71	Then let's go to the list of speakers. In a few moments, we will have more debatable speeches, now on the list of speakers from time to time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u72	Madam President! The debate is intense and partly on the issue and, as usual, somewhat on the sidelines. It must be nice that someone has got a job and boasts that there have been a lot of fixed-term contracts. I'm glad to hear it. However, in this general climate, even with regard to the preparation of this law, there is a sad shadow of the actions of this government, and when there is talk of a tortoise model, it is true that the kiky agreement added tax days when 24 hours of extra work came without pay, which means that we are going there a hundred years ago and we are getting closer to the tortoise time. And yes, I have to say about the conclusion of a fixed-term agreement between a person who has been unemployed for less than thirty-three months without any justification that I doubt that the Constitutional Committee, if you can get this on its desk, will find that it will discriminate against so many people that it will hardly be blessed in this house. But when a zero-hour contract came here as a citizens' bill, it was easy to read it when, in the previous period, a similar initiative had been taken with Mr Kärnä, then, and I noticed that, even in his own bill, it was a very bad starting point for the possibility of shorter working hours to be eliminated. In other words, if a company could offer only 2 hours per week on the zero-hour contract, when the minimum working time would have been the 18 hours, then at that point this zero-hour contract should only have been amended in such a way that it would have been possible. The zero agreement, as Mr Kontula has pointed out, must be an opportunity. It is a particularly important tool for students and, best of all, it really makes it possible to accept and do the main thing, namely studying and then doing the work, if that is possible at the time. At the moment, however, we already have an instrument which does not require a zero contract: a person can agree with the company by means of a framework agreement that he can be invited to work, but it also includes the right not to take the job at that time if it does not suit the situation of the worker. Here representatives of Kontula and Filatov well described what means three months. It's a really long time like hanging in the air, and at that point it seems inconceivable that this is going to go hand in hand with the active model, that the three months have now become such a magic word for this government. Quite a number of points repeat this three-month period. [EeroSuutari’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u73	Mr President! When Mr Heinäluoma left, he pointed out that he did not say a word about this matter, but about other employment-related laws, which I then commented on. Well, he wanted to comment on other things, and I expected thanks from him for this law. But this is what we're talking about here, isn't it? The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities welcomes the fact that the government, following the examination of the citizens' initiative, has immediately prepared provisions to remedy the shortcomings of the so-called zero-hour contracts. I personally agree with these thanks from the committee and say that I felt that the discussion of the committee had a much better climate to find a common path and improve Finnish working life than is currently the case in this Chamber. Indeed, the aim is to increase Finnish work and improve quality and to eradicate the disadvantages of working life. This proposal strengthens the employee's right to sick leave and to pay the period of notice and partly corrects the disadvantages of unemployment benefit. The proposed changes will reduce the uncertainty and unpredictability associated with the work opportunities of those working on a variable basis, thus facilitating the management of the employee’s schedule, the coordination of work and leisure time, and the simultaneous use of several part-time jobs. It is in the interests of the individual and of the entire Finnish society that as many as possible can work full-time, although with more employers. Mr President! The committee also proposes the following changes: Under certain conditions, an employee may ask the employer to negotiate a working time condition to change it to meet the real need for work. This would avoid inappropriate treatment of the worker, including a deliberate agreement on less working time than there is a real need. I believe that this should remove the zero-hour contracts. That's how it's done. The fact that Mr Kontula mentioned the need for zero-hour contracts does not prevent the employer from saying that there is no basis for concluding zero contracts — at least, in my opinion. The committee considers that the proposed regulation is too limited for workers with low labour market status and therefore proposes that the law provides for a time limit within which working hours should be negotiated. In addition, the committee proposes that the employee be entitled to use an assistant in the negotiations. In this respect, the committee also clarifies the language of the law — it is now clearly stated there. The committee also proposes that a supplement be written to the law on health and safety at work, so that the provision also includes the provision of additional information, drawing up a picture of the situation, i.e. a written report on the main conditions of work and the additional information required. Mr President! The opposition argues that the provisions on variable working hours would also apply to part-time contracts where working hours actually vary. The committee points out that the purpose of the proposal is to reduce, in particular, the problems caused by varying working hours and that the coordination of the conditions of employment of fixed-term and variable working hours should be clarified separately. In addition, the Committee generally stresses the need to monitor the impact of the reform on both workers and businesses. The Minister must be well aware of this. In my opinion, the opposition is not interested in how their legislative proposal would actually affect them. Some do get better, but others may run out of work on the reverse. Changes in employers' activities as this bill may become more widely agreed are also important for society as a whole, and this will be seen in the follow-up. Mr President! The reform can be seen as a balanced one and also as a compromise. The new rules of the game balance and clarify the rights and obligations of workers and employers, but do not exclude the possibility of working in a flexible way. When the need for labour and agreed working hours meet, everything is better for the employee, employer and society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u74	Madam President! It is really great that the Sipilä Government took this citizens' initiative on zero-hour contracts seriously and wanted to find a form that could quickly be used to restrict zero-hour contracts. The main reason for this bill is that there are clear rules for the use of a zero-hour employment contract. The systematic abuse of zero-hour contracts distorts competition. When you become structural, it really is a big problem. If the employer is in need of a fixed labour force, zero-hour contracts may not be used in the future. This is good to be aware of. Thus, this is addressed, but, as a type of contract, zero-hour contracts are not completely prohibited. We must remember that there are also those who want to do part-time and varied hours of work. These are, as has already been mentioned, students and pensioners, for example. There is no real need to deprive them of this opportunity for merit. There is much more to this debate than this zero-hour agreement in question. In this context, I would like to remind you that this government, as a gift, was given 100,000 unemployed people during the previous government term. Now that has been translated so that almost 90,000 people have been employed during this reign and still have been able to get into those difficult groups. The number of long-term unemployed, i.e. those who had been unemployed for over 12 months, was 83,000 in March, or 29,000 fewer than one year ago. And yet, those who were unemployed for more than two years were 43,000, and they had a decrease of 13,000. This is a really great thing. The employment rate rose already to 71.1 per cent in February, and this growth has been stronger than anticipated. However, the rate of unemployment has fallen relatively slowly, but, fortunately, there is also a positive reason behind it. More and more people have started looking for jobs as the outlook has become clearer, and the workforce has grown. This year the unemployment rate is falling faster than last year and is already below 8%. The fact that we need to reform not only the rules of the labour market but also social security has already been overlooked in this debate. I believe that the options for social security reform, to which it is to go, will be one of the key themes of the next parliamentary elections. That is why it is really great that the government has decided, through the Prime Minister's Office, on this Action project, in which all the parliamentary parties in the government and the opposition may be involved in looking for alternatives to what could be the guidelines and the different models, how to move that social security forward next season. This kind of preparatory work is extremely important because each of us is clear about how big, complex, multi-layered the issue is, where commenting on individual benefits is an eye-blocking exercise. A truly challenging job is ahead of us, and we are now applying for guidelines with the Action Project of the Prime Minister's Office. Madam President! However, it is also good to remember that when we talk about the opposition and the return of a hundred years ago — I think this is an insult to a 100-year-old Finland — things have never been as good for us as they are now. Whether we are unemployed, employed, entrepreneurs, in whatever position, Finland is a great country. Internationally, we live in Paradise. By this I do not mean that we do not have any problems, but thank you to Juha Sipilä's Government for setting up a working group run by Juho Saare a year ago to find solutions to this particular problem of how to eradicate inequality, and the first 12 steps were already included in the spending limits debate. Thank you to the government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u75	Mr President! Unfortunately, what Mr Heinäluoma said about the fact that we are going back a hundred years in terms of the deterioration of working life is true. I must say that I would not be surprised if there were yet another demonstration here that a canary had to be taken to the mines. Those who have studied the matter know what it means. Others can search through Google and see what the canary bird meant in the mines. This zero contract case, which has now been concluded, is one element which seeks to weaken the effects of collective agreements and also to weaken existing employment contracts. There's no way out of it. This is the overall picture of what this government has done this season. I would remind you that collective agreements, no more than employment contracts, do not only decide on pay or working time, but they also decide on a great many other matters at work and at the workplace. They decide on matters that affect the well-being of the employee, but also the ability of the employer to act as a good employer, because that is also a very important issue. This zero-labour agreement has been justified here by part-time, temporary and fixed-term. Neither part-time, temporary, fixed-term nor any peculiarity requires a zero-hour agreement. For all of these there are rules and recommendations for minimum wages, or we do not have minimum wages, but basic salaries, departure salaries and also working hours, and they are applicable without any zero contracts. As I said, we already have a profession called freelancers. For 40 years they have worked without a zero - hour contract and yet received their wages, even having their summer vacation. The pay for sickness is the last one to come. It's not quite settled yet, but it's almost over. Then it has been said here that a zero-contractor can enter into several contracts with several employers. Is it the case that it is an employee who determines how many hours the contract has — it is not an employer? Have I got this all wrong? Is it the case that an employee can go to different employers to agree on their own hours and then inform them that you will now have these hours and these hours and these hours for you, because I need a full-time job? If so, this is good, but I suspect it is the other way around, that the dictater is the employer's partner. An employee must always have some kind of security when working. There's got to be that back wall there. A collective agreement system has proved to be a good back wall in this country. It has guaranteed that we do not have to work for five hours. I hope we never have to do that. I would also like to emphasise the use of an assistant. It could have been used before. It is unfortunate that the Minister for Labour left this place because I really wanted an answer to the active model. If a zero-job contract lasts for three months and you do not get 18 hours of work from an employer, will the active model become available? Will unemployment benefit be cut in this respect from the worker? But the minister went away. I asked you this before. It may be that you might have a problem in the back of your head with the question coming up again. I hope that from now on this issue will be remembered when it is discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u76	Madam President! It seems a little strange that we are being intimidated here that we are going back a hundred years in history, but this legislation is now tackling the problems of the zero-hour agreements which have been known in this country for quite a long time. Of course, you can criticise the level of ambition that it is not enough, but, as you can see from the objections, this is a step in the right direction. There are improvements to the current situation in this bill. It is important to note that it is here that improvements will be made not only in terms of pay during sick leave but also in terms of pay during the period of protection from dismissal. As has been pointed out here in the debates, in some stages of life, employment contracts of this kind will certainly also benefit, so the categorical ban was not at all possible, but, of course, the worker must have strong rights, and they are also strengthened here. In addition, it is important to note that if the employer has a firm need for the labour force, then such zero-hour contracts can no longer be used. In addition, what has been raised here in the debate, for example, about the payment of the adjusted daily allowance and the delays that have been there, is, unfortunately, a matter that has been known for quite a long time. In the early part of the year, when the government presented the listing of this ten points, one point related to these particular points, for example, how to settle the daily allowance without delay. We have all that information and information technology and, of course, it should come at a rapid pace. No one can spend months without social security or the money they deserve. There are also other positive things there: studying with social security for six months, while an entrepreneur may have unemployment benefit for four months. I would also like to say in connection with the coordination of social security, which is all about the change in working life: we know that the nature of work has also changed and that there is a lot of seasonal, seasonal work and the need for labour across Finland is different, for example in relation to different seasons. Suddenly, even in Northern Finland, Lapland, it tourism is growing rapidly, thousands more people are needed to work, and then perhaps in part of the year the need for labour is less. It is terriblely important that the next Parliament and the next government make proposals on how to combine social security and seasonal, part-time employment. There is good data for this on the basis of this government's experiments with basic income experiments. The Incomes Register will enter into force at the turn of the year. It would be very important to try inverse income tax, for example, and thus enable each work performance to be completed. It may not live for a whole month or a whole year, but it is also possible, combined with flexible social security. This, of course, requires a strong level of basic security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u77	Mr President! It is clear that there is a good purpose in this way, and we will certainly all agree on that. But what I was concerned about in committee was that the professors of labour law began their speech with the need to reinstate this law, because it is so confusing and it mainly employs lawyers. This, in my view, was a worrying feature of the committee. When we became more familiar with this and went deeper, it appears from these points. At the beginning of this law, there is a great deal of beautiful promise in the texts,but then we have to compare these matters so that they are not covered by such beautiful matters. And when we made our own objection, we tried in a few paragraphs to correct the unwarranted promises in that section of the text. Nevertheless, there are things that take us forward, but also things that may even take us backwards. If we think that we now have legislation that becomes legal and one of the accepted forms of agreement that can go forward from zero in working hours without limitation in between, then the problem becomes this zero, what it means in practical life. We talked earlier about this point of dismissal, where my logic does not really catch up with the fact that if the government is concerned about three months of unemployment, as it should be, and considers it too long for young people and believes that it must then be possible to agree on a fixed-term employment relationship without justification, then again, in this law, it is considered that three months is a good time to stick to a zero-hour agreement, which cannot be terminated without having to face longer and more severe levels of unemployment security. It would have been reasonable for this three-month period to have been reduced if working hours were indeed zero, because those hours of work are the crucial issue, not whether a person has an employment relationship. If a person has an employment contract of zero hours and has zero hours, he or she will be registered as employed in the statistics of the Labour Administration even if he or she does not have a job. However, from the point of view of our economy and our well-being and the financing of our systems, it is essential to what work is being done, how much good it produces for this society and whether it is working hours. Therefore, this would have been one of the places for repair. The second is this sickness allowance, which assumes that it will be paid according to the days on the schedule, and if the illness continues thereafter, it will be paid according to that minimum hour, and if the minimum hour has been exceeded four times for six months, then only then can it be paid according to its actual working hours. Consider the fact that a person has a variable working time contract between 20 and 40 hours. He'll never get past that minimum. No matter how many years he worked in such a way that he actually had 40 hours, his sick leave would always be determined if they were not hours on the schedule, according to 20 hours. If a person has a minimum working time of 10 hours and has been working for six months at 38 hours, he would still receive a sick leave salary on the basis of 10 hours, except for those hours on the schedule. These are the excesses that remain in this law. Even now, we have had good employers who have paid better. They have paid it in accordance with the actual, supposed working time and not in accordance with the minimum levels that now come into the law, which determine that it should be paid in this way, and few thereafter pay as if it were actual working time. One thing that would have greatly improved this law would have been to have adopted a practice similar to that we have, for example, in part-time employment or temporary work, to have to be informed at certain intervals of the nature of such employment relationships. But we did not want to bring this to zero-hour contracts, which, in my opinion, is quite absurd, because it would have been the instrument by which the shop steward would have seen what was going on when, in this situation, we assume that, in most cases, the person himself negotiates what the working time is: whether it is established at a higher level or where it is established. If a shop steward saw that there are many zero - hour contract workers in the workplace and yet sees how this work is done, it could provide collective protection for the individual. We know very well that it is often difficult for one person, even if he knows he is right, to challenge those working conditions because it gives him a difficult reputation and a difficult job to find. However, on this subject of employment, I would like to say that this is perhaps the big difference between the social democrats and the right side of the Chamber, that we do not want to stare at just what is our employment rate and what is our unemployment rate, as it is now feeling that the government is doing. The fact is how it is divided: how the existing benefits that this will become will be shared. My big concern is that at the moment we are reading these statistics a little wrong. We are delighted that there has been an increase in the number of people working and that there is a positive side to it, but we are misled by the fact that, at the same time, the number of hours worked in the first half of this year has decreased. And if so, temporary work has increased, part-time work has increased, temporary part-time work has increased. Are we producing the prosperity with this employment policy that we would like to commit ourselves to? This should look a lot more closely into their statistics. The second share is, for example, a reduction in long-term unemployment. If anyone, I will be happy if long-term unemployment genuinely and really falls and people get to work. But when we look at where people have moved from long - term unemployment, they may not have gone to work. There is evidence that 30,000 people have left the unemployment statistics by never having to be there, and it turns out that they are in the wrong system. In addition, we have other elements in which people have left that unemployment. In other words, we should look at what the job is, what the job is, what kind of living it gets, whether it gets a decent life or whether it still depends on our social security systems. One full-time job that sustains a person in such a way that he does not have to rely on transfers is in fact more for society than having two jobs — where people work for a few hours and are still completely dependent on our social support system. This means, of course, that social security must be reformed, but we must also look after the quality of its work. It cannot be that: Finland, as a Nordic country, is beginning to be European assortment in terms of quality of work and quality of employment relations. That is not what we should be aiming for, even if it makes employment statistics beautiful.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u78	Mr President! After Congressman Filatov, it's good to continue. Very often, I would say, even on a daily basis, we talk in this Chamber about how to reduce the conditions of work in order to obtain more hours of work or more jobs or employment. And it is true in this system that increasing hours worked, improving employment, is in principle a matter to be pursued. With something we must keep this welfare state system of ours up. But if we only talk about employment and hours worked, then we are guilty of two false assumptions: firstly, that all hours worked are always desirable — they are not, part of the hours worked is due to a response to social problems that we do not hope for — and that all hours worked are equal — then measured on the basis of the social benefit or value of the work. Some time ago, we were with the committee visiting Kenya, and I got sick and needed a medicine from a pharmacy. That hotel managed to employ eight people for two hours to get that medicine for me at the pharmacy. Well, that's a lot of work hours. But probably it was not the kind of labour market phenomenon that we hope for in this country. This system, in which people want to have more hours of work, must therefore also take into account the productivity of work, which generally improves when a worker can develop from a piece of work into a professional in a sector, and which, on the basis of very extensive research literature, improves when the spirit of the workplace improves and people can develop their own work on a long-term basis, when worker cooperation creates more than what each person would do on his own. Furthermore, when we want to increase the number of hours worked, it is at the same time necessary for political decision-making to reflect on the cost of resuming the workforce, as Mr Filatov has already mentioned. If we produce the kind of work in which a significant part of human income is still generated through tax resources, then we need someone to pay those taxes too. And then we will have to expand the public sector in order to pay subsidies to companies for this form of work. It may be an advantage of an individual company, but it is generally not an advantage of the national economy. Furthermore, the collection of working hours must take into account all the indirect effects of political decisions on wealth differences, perceived well-being and the legitimacy of the system in general. When working conditions are so much weakened, people generally learn very soon that this system is not for them. And it has consequences not only for the well-being of people, but also for the well-being of companies and for the state of the economy, as confidence capital crumbles. In the world, we have many examples of countries where there is a huge amount of work to be done than in Finland, where they may all work for the elderly from almost the age of day-care centres. These countries are consistently countries that we are not in favour of taking the example of our own system, where the number of hours worked, the employment rate is certainly very high, but these other factors have been overshadowed. That is why I am calling for better, wiser and more comprehensive decision-making in this Chamber and, above all, for targets to be set.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u79	Mr President! There is a variety of legislation on working time, which is a cancellation of the fact that a citizens' initiative to ban zero-hour contracts came before Parliament. There were a number of important reasons for the citizens' initiative, such as the fact that many people who signed zero-hour contracts felt reluctantly in a zero-hour contract, and in particular the situations are excessive that there is no job for the employee at all but that he cannot get out of the contract. Our legislation clearly lacked legislation on zero hour contracts and, in particular, legislation protecting workers. It is therefore important that, with this legislation, the conclusion of zero-hour contracts becomes less attractive and the rights of workers are improved. But it is good to have different alternatives in the labour market. For young students in particular, short-term employment and part-time work are very necessary, and many companies also need a seasonal workforce, and it is therefore good to maintain a certain flexibility in the labour market in terms of working hours. Now that it is the first time a law has been passed on zero hour contracts, it is really essential to see how the law works. That is why the report's record of monitoring the functioning of the law is really central. A lot of serious concerns have arisen in this debate, such as what the chairman of the committee, Mr Filatov, pointed out that there is a three-month limit, during which time the worker may not be able to work, but he is still stuck to a zero-hour agreement. In general, our labour market needs new flexibility and new flexicurity mechanisms. It is important to have more work available and job opportunities for young people and older people of all ages, and one of the issues is improving social security and, in particular, reconciling work and social security so that work is always worthwhile. After all, the government's basic income experiment, which has been rather limited and does not fully correspond to the concept of basic income, is now running out, and it is important that decisions be taken very quickly thereafter on the continuation, on the extension of new experiments or on the move towards basic income.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u80	Mr President! Not all zero-hour contracts are bad, and we certainly have people who like to work on zero-hour contracts, and there are also improvements in this bill — I do not think that any opposition has banned them here. A good employer will certainly also receive support and ideas for improving the status of zero hour workers, but on the other hand, legislation must always be on the weaker side, and there are still many loopholes in this bill, and I think that Mrs Filatov has made an excellent point. It is precisely in this protest by the SDP that we have described how this bill could have been improved. For example, we propose in the Co-operation Act the right of workers' representatives to information about the use of zero contracts, including hours, in the same way as part-time and fixed-term contracts, the right to information, and this correction would already have been important because this would have enabled workers to monitor the number of zero-hour workers and also those hours of work. Mr President! The worker is still very alone if he goes to claim his rights, and if he criticises the employer, there is a very high risk that hours will be reduced very quickly. And, as the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities also points out, the working conditions, livelihoods and so on of the zero-hour contract people have not yet been studied very well, so that these situations are not very well known, and that is why we should have done better before this legislation is brought here, even at the risk of a slight delay in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u81	Madam President! What is it, basically, today? It is a matter of the government being prepared to have zero-hour contracts officially legalised. So it suits the government that a person works with a zero-sover, which at its worst means several weeks, even months, when you will not get an hour to do the actual work. When we talk about zero-hour agreements here in Parliament, we are also wondering how many of us personally know people who work on zero-hour contracts, especially those who have to work on a zero-sover in practice against their own will. I think I know there's a minority of us. Young people and women in particular work under zero employment contracts. According to Statistics Finland, about one-third of people with zero contracts would like additional hours and more than half of those working part-time. Each one of us may wonder how constant uncertainty and uncertainty about whether pay is enough to live will affect human everyday activities alone, let alone getting a loan, getting a rental dwelling and providing day care for children. Many people who work on a zero contract also have to rely on income support. This cannot be an objective in our working life. Certainly none of us are preventing students or, for example, part-time pensioners from acquiring additional earnings, but the means, customs and opportunities must be fair and fair and prepared by more precise legislation than this. In the short term, at least for employers, the zero catch is quite affordable, as it directly shifts the risk of entrepreneurship to the employee’s hands. It cannot be right for an employee to have all the obligations relating to an employment relationship but not rights. Political will should always be the starting point in this house, that work ensures adequate income for everyone and that labour law guarantees security for everyone. When the committee hearings also revealed that legislation is confusing and that the increasing work of lawyers will be the realism that this legislation will bring, there will be no more than an obligation to object.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u82	Mr President! The chairman of the committee, Mrs Filatov, took a very well-informed speech here, and perhaps many of them would have come to the conclusion that the changes she made to this solution would have been worth considering that it could even have been done jointly. Those proposals were very factual and well-founded. After all, this debate on the zero-hour contract is, of course, a broader phenomenon in that the forms of work are diverse and changing. I have often said here in the toilet that the same person may be in full-time work, temporary work, unemployed, training or sole entrepreneur within a year, and what is essential is that people can move from one joint point to another in a smooth and safe way. Secondly, when we talk about improvements or changes, we are happy to talk about flexibility, but we must always remember that, in a change, its flexibility and security must go hand in hand. Basically, we are faced with the fact that we need a new model of reconciliation of income, work and social security in Finland with the change in this work, which we are talking about here today. Surely no one has denied that there are a lot of positive things in this proposal and that zero contracts cannot be used in some life situation, such as in the context of studies. It's a question of reluctance. In such a situation, it would have been better if the established nature of this work — the rules of variety — had been strengthened. Then I would just like to say that, when there seems to be quite a black hole in the work of the last term of government in the centre, I just want to say that during the last term of government there was a great deal of reform work on the status and opportunities of temporary workers, and in this respect it is good to restore this. I myself had the opportunity to negotiate for myself a single income solution that provided a contractually agreed minimum working time of 3 hours per week. In other words, we already have such solutions for the contracting party, and I think that in the future it will be good for the contracting parties to consider, by industry, how, for example, to bring about contractual reforms to the zero-contractual rules. Then I would like to put forward an idea relating to this world of part-time employment, and that is to say that it is not possible to think that part-time work and study will be more closely linked. On the one hand, a person in a part-time employment relationship should be entitled to study in the second part of life and, as a system, would support one another better than they do today. It would also create opportunities for part-time workers to move to a permanent job and to find new jobs. In other words, more closely combine study and part-time work. This could be one of the next reforms that you should take forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u83	Madam President! There has been a long, multigenerational and very good debate on zero agreements. I agree with the estimates that different contractual systems are needed in the transition in the labour market, but with this big picture, shared common understanding, I do agree with the majority of representatives, particularly here on the opposition side, namely not to weaken people's attachment to the labour market, but to enable people to join the labour market and to do so in such a way as to talk about fair conditions between workers and employers. I will take up the idea raised by Mr Ihalainen about the need for social security, work and study and the whole package to be joined together. Even as a young man in the '80s who went to work and who was smitten in the '90s, I know what it means to be in employment relationships, whose lengths vary from a few weeks to perhaps a few months. And when it comes to young adults who are also trying to attach themselves to the ordinary life through working life — if you call it ordinary life when you take out a loan, start a family, buy housing and so on — such a zero-hour contract world, which, with this reform of the law, may now become even more permanent, does not contribute to the creation of families of young people, nor does it contribute to the equally big goal of increasing the number of children in Finnish families. I hope, therefore, that this well-constructed objection from the SDP will also be appreciated in the public debate when assessing the introduction of zero-hour contracts and the consequences. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u84	Mr President! It is sometimes said that the feast will improve as the people get smaller, and it often happens in the parliamentary debate that when you listen to the last actual speeches, they come with the new openings and pearls of the debate. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kontula, who, in my opinion, is very concerned about what the working time, what our employment and so on are — should not work and working time and growth serve our well-being? If it comes from such mechanical systems, which actually is about covering risks or fixing some problems in what society has, then all the work and all the growth is not equal. We need to go inside and into the content of those figures in these areas, so that the economy and employment serve our well-being. Then I would like to thank Mr Ihalainen for reminding us that the combination of part-time work and study should be made easier, because it is often the case that if we want to increase that well-being, we must also be able to increase the productivity of our work, and then learning and knowledge will play a key role. Unfortunately, it is still the case that the jobs that are shredded in this society are most often the less productive jobs in which we should find smarter ways to do it. They are also the low-paid jobs that become the problem of people having few hours to work and, in addition to that, they have a very low salary and work does not then fulfil the promise that they can make a living through work, and this, in a way, becomes the inflation of the work as a whole — people do not believe that work brings well-being to a person. At the same time, when we have to rely on even more income transfers, the idea of income is, in a way, lost in relation to the jobs that are so unpleasant that none of us would do them for anything other than pay. This is the whole which we should be considering more, but also whether we are shredding the work with legislation more than is necessary. It is true that global competition and different productivity requirements and competition require that we also have these shredded jobs, but as legislators we must not speed up this development, but we must strike a balance between not eating jobs and employment but not wanting to break up working life on terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u85	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 2/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The report is presented by the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u86	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the legal period, the law on legal proceedings in criminal matters, the law on pre-trial investigations and the law on the enforcement of the fine. The proposed amendments would ease judicial procedures in general courts. The aim is to shorten court proceedings, inter alia, by making the rules governing the composition of the court more flexible and by enabling the court to concentrate on its core tasks. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights considers it important that the proposal should be based on the principle that legal certainty should be ensured, despite the expenditure pressure and savings on justice. Regardless of what has been said, the committee believes that the reduction in the time taken to deal with cases and the concentration of courts on their core tasks are, in the view of the committee, very important objectives for the development of justice. For the reasons set out in the Government's proposal and on the basis of the report it has received, the Legal Committee considers the proposed legislative proposals to be necessary and appropriate. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the proposal with a few comments and amendments. First, let's take this relaxation in the district court. The proposal extends the decision-making powers of the composition of a single judge at the District Court in criminal matters. The proposal extends the scope of the composition of a single judge so that a criminal case can be dealt with in the composition of a single judge if the offence referred to in the charge can be sentenced to a maximum of four years in prison. The proposal also proposes the composition of two judges in the district court as a new configuration option. The composition of a single judge in both criminal and civil matters could be strengthened by one lawyer if justified by the nature, scope or other particular reason of the case. The Legal Committee notes that the extension of the decision-making power of a single Judge constitutes a substantial amendment to the composition of the Court. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs draws attention to the fact that the cases that can be dealt with in the composition of a single judge already include, as so-called 'listing offences', the most serious forms of several offences with a maximum sentence of more than two years' imprisonment. Furthermore, in the form of a single judge, as indicated in the Government’s proposal, not all offences for which the most severe sentence is imposed are punishable for a maximum period of four years, since some offences are dealt with in a stronger composition due to the nature of the case or other criminal offences being prosecuted. Madam President! In the light of the above, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers that the extension of the scope of the composition of a single judge proposed in the proposal, combined with the new two-judge composition option, is a well-founded and also appropriate solution in terms of legal security. The committee considers that, in order to ensure the appropriate use of resources and legal certainty, it is justified for the courts to consider, within the limits of the legal discretion, the composition in which an individual case is to be dealt with. A few words on the reduction of compositions in the Supreme Court: According to the proposal, the quorum of the Supreme Court will be reduced in certain categories of case. The Supreme Court would have a quorum instead of the present five members in the composition of three members if the appeal concerns the conditions for granting further authorisation. The composition of three members would be subject to unanimity. The Committee on Legal Affairs considers this and other amendments to be fully justified. Among other things, the proposed changes will contribute to a much better targeting of the Supreme Court’s resources in line with the quality of the cases. This will allow the transfer of resources to more demanding cases and improve the ability of the Supreme Court to focus on its main task, which is the adoption of judicial precedents. The allocation of the work input of the members of the Supreme Court in a more appropriate way also speeds up processing times. Mr President! Then we will deal with the duty of the accused to take part personally in the trial, and I will deal with this a little more broadly, because it has caused a great deal of debate in the committee and a slight change in the tradition of centuries. The Government's proposal assumes that the defendant in criminal proceedings must continue to be present in person in the main proceedings if the court considers that the defendant's presence in the case is necessary. Compared to the current situation, the additional criterion is that the court considers that presence is necessary for other reasons. However, the government's proposal proposes a provision whereby the duty of the accused to be personally present in the main proceedings is reduced in two ways: First of all, the defendant’s obligation to be present will be reduced in such a way that the sentence of imprisonment of a non-underage defendant no longer requires the defendant to be heard personally in the main proceedings. If the court did not consider the personal presence of the defendant necessary, it would be sufficient for the defendant to be represented in the main proceedings by an agent. However, the defendant must be personally present in the main proceedings of the District Court if he is charged with a criminal offence for which the most severe sentence is at least six years imprisonment — this latter obligation of presence does not apply to court proceedings. Secondly, the obligation of the defendant to be present in person is proposed to be relaxed in relation to the defendant in custody. The main rule would still be that the defendant must be personally present at the main hearing dealing with the charge of the offence for which he is imprisoned. However, the court could decide in future that the defendant should not be personally present throughout the main proceedings. The Committee on Legal Affairs notes that the reduction of the obligation of the accused to be present can reduce the number of cancellations due to the absence of the accused and thus improve the efficiency of the criminal procedure and reduce the length of the proceedings. There are significant disadvantages from cancelled sessions, such as delays in court proceedings, unnecessary costs and unnecessary court visits by other parties. For these reasons, the committee broadly welcomes the reductions made and has no comment on the proposal on the presence of the detained defendant. For the rest, the committee states: As stated above, the proposal means that the general rule remains that the defendant must be personally present at the main hearing unless it is considered that a personal presence is not necessary to clarify the matter. However, the defendant must always be heard personally in a district court if he is accused of a crime for which the most severe sentence is at least six years in prison. Such offences, for which the maximum sentence is six years imprisonment, are rape within the meaning of Article 1 of Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code. The Legal Committee considers that the individual presence of the accused in a district court is, as a general rule, necessary when dealing with a serious offence which may result in a long prison sentence for the defendant. Setting a limit to the maximum sentence of six years of the offence to be dealt with will, as explained above, in practice mean that the defendant is always obliged to hear in a situation where the defendant is sentenced to a long prison sentence. Mr President! However, I would like to point out here that, of course, the accused always has the right to be present in court — always the right, but this has been said about duty. In the light of the above and the overall assessment of the report received, the Legal Committee considers that the proposed regulation on the reduction of the obligation of the defendant to be present is acceptable. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs stresses that the Court of Justice should carefully consider the requirements of a fair trial when considering the obligation to be present. A personal presence is, of course, necessary if the defendant has been heard for the purpose of proof. For example, determining the circumstances surrounding the measurement of the penalty may also require personal consultation of the defendant. Mr President! Just a few more words about a few other things: The obligation to remain in the place of the preliminary investigation authority for the purpose of service of the challenge — the Legal Committee considers this necessary, but stresses the legal security aspects, particularly for the person who is required to remain in the pre-trial investigation. Furthermore, the extension of the use of video access — which the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights considers to be fully justified, and it will also reduce the number of legal proceedings. Mr President! To this end, the committee considers this to be such an important reform that the committee makes the following proposal for a statement: ‘The Commission requires the Ministry of Justice to monitor the effectiveness and impact of the reform of the judicial processes in the General Courts,in particular the composition of the Courts and the individual presence of the Courts in the proceedings,andto submit to the Legal Affairs Unfortunately, this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs was not unanimous this time, but contains a clause which we will perhaps hear more about here. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u87	Madam President! This government proposal eases judicial procedures in general courts. However, the starting point must always be to ensure legal certainty, and that is also the spirit of the committee's report. Court proceedings will be shortened and courts will focus more on their core tasks in the future. The main change is that the scope of one judge will be extended and it will also be possible to use two judges if the court considers it necessary. This presentation received a lot of support in the expert hearing because it is based on the fact that it is essential that more judges are always used in challenging proceedings, but the courts have discretion over this number of judges. Another good change is that the use of video access is expanding in the courts, but this also requires investment in equipment. This opposition to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure relates precisely to what the chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, said in his speech: the duty of the accused to take part personally in the trial. This is now being considerably relaxed so that the accused would not have to be present at all if he was threatened with a six - year sentence or less imprisonment. In this protest by the opposition, the spirit is that the accused should be heard personally, even once, and otherwise it would be sufficient for the accused to have an ombudsman present. This is strongly linked to legal certainty and fairness, but also to the fact that the defendant is responsible for his actions, and also to the fact that, if the defendant has not been consulted, there may be an ex post ground of appeal if not all the essential facts have been raised in this court hearing. But, in principle, it is good that the defendant should not have to attend every single hearing if the court so decides, because it is also true that if the accused does not appear and the court has been convened, then the sitting may have to be cancelled and the arrival of everyone else has been in vain, and this will, of course, lead to longer proceedings and additional costs. Nevertheless, it does not make sense for such a significant change in legal certainty to be made that the accused should not have to be heard once in a court of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u88	Madam Speaker! The chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, carefully presented the work and detailed arguments in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I can only agree with them. I am therefore going to deal with this issue of the composition of the right a little more briefly. Of course, for a number of practical reasons — as society speeds up, both as information speeds up and even as the number of cases increases — it is certainly necessary to favour, among other things, the system of a single judge, and also what has been taken into account by the Legal Committee and also by the Government’s proposal, that in certain cases, which the chairman of the committee presented, there should be a court hearing strengthened by another lawyer. It's legal. It's the right place. And as far as the higher court is concerned, it has been rather rigid, and I am sure it is precisely the arguments that Mr Tolvanen mentioned: the clarification and acceleration of the work without jeopardising legal protection will certainly require even more limited treatment under the very conditions set out in the explanatory statement, and it is necessary, in those circumstances, to obtain, among other things, unanimous decisions in order to speed up the work, so that in practice the matter is not delayed. As far as video processing is concerned, it is commonplace and necessary, and I warmly support its existence. As far as this defendant's presence is concerned, I should like to justify, surprisingly, very close to the Greens' protest, in line with the respect for justice and its legal protection. Of course, legal certainty, when it comes to prosecutions, also applies to the fact that the defendant also receives the same legal protection as the injured party. When faced with an act that is specific to prosecutions, from the eye of justice to the eye, it is indeed an uplifting event of respect for justice. In that sense, this should be more often than is proposed here. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that the proposed regulation represents a change in principle from the point of view that the defendant must be personally present in criminal proceedings in relation to him. This is the right position for the Constitutional Committee, and that is what should be mentioned here. As far as the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the section of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which has been consulted, is concerned precisely more with the practice of justice. I was a lawyer in these matters for a long time and I agree with the presence of the accused, the presence of the defendant, the fact that he often disappears — he will not answer the question — there are significant disadvantages, as is stated here, due to the fact that the proceedings have been delayed, unnecessary costs and unnecessary court visits by other parties. It is very frustrating if you have to be challenged as a Witness, among other things. It complicates matters, the Witnesses very often run away, do not want to sit there in vain and lose their respect for justice at the same time if you do not come together for the right solution. I believe that these are the very principles of justice and justice that are well taken into account, and I can only agree with that. But, as I said earlier, I would be happy to agree with the principle set out in the Greens' protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u89	Madam President! Last December, at the parliamentary budget meeting, I think that was the meeting, and this was the subject we discussed, and I asked the chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, if I remember this month, whether this bill and this idea would reduce these legal processes in the background of operational, can I say, performance, speed-up of judicial processes, or whether this legislative reform would be guided by economic realities, savings that could pose threats to citizens' legal security or threats to situations in which the economy controls more than legal security. Of course, it cannot be in the law, and certainly not in the court of law, the draver. But here the chairman of the committee gave a good presentation. But there are a few questions. I would have asked: did the committee discuss keeping this limit a little lower, because very serious crimes are being discussed when entering that ceiling? You mentioned it a little bit. In addition, I would like to reform the question of the interface between the economy and activity. Here are some good suggestions: the composition of a single judge and increased flexibility in court proceedings. The situations that have just been mentioned by Mr Juhantalo, in which everyone except this person is present, are of course unpleasant to the work of many people and cause unnecessary costs and costs. To conclude, I welcome this statement on impact monitoring. It is the unanimous desire of the committee to see how these measures will then in practice bite.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u90	Madam President! First of all, I am sure that everyone would agree that if the world were beautiful and people obeyed what they were told, that everyone should come to the court, to the table without bread, that would be the starting point, but the fact is that, especially in larger cities, these are real problems, that there is a whole other orchestra, but it is missing and everyone else has to cancel those sessions. In my opinion, there is a human aspect here that we can move that forward. Of course, there is an economic element, there is no denying it. But to what Mr. Kari was asking. Of course, there were discussions about borders other than this six years, but then, if it had been calculated for four years, there would have been little change — the maximum five-year crime rate is not very high. In practice, when these changes were to be made, they had to be raised to this six years. And I would like to stress again that if the Court so considers, it must come. Now we leave to the independent court the discretion which I believe is due to it. [MikaKarin intermediate call] Now I would like to say one more thing, which has been public. — The Committee on Legal Affairs has also spoken about it, but now I can’t find it. — Since it has been alleged publicly that the plaintiff would now have a higher obligation to be present in the court there than the defendant, that is not true. We figured this out. This does not alter the right, or obligation, of the plaintiff to be present. The plaintiff must also achieve, if the court so considers, but the obligation of the accused to be present is much more severe than the victim of the offence, as it should be. Finally, of course, I would like to say what I have emphasised that the accused always has the right to be present. This is without prejudice to the right to be present. We are talking here only about those people who, at their worst, have to be brought to the Chamber by the police, that their case can be closed, or that they have to be withdrawn — since they have already been consulted in the preliminary examination and most often, or now almost every time we talk about crimes of this order of seriousness, there has been a lawyer present. He's been heard there, and the suspect doesn't have to say anything there either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u91	Madam Speaker! It is precisely this requirement for the plaintiff to be present and the debate that has taken place: in practice, the plaintiff often has an interest in being present in the matter of prosecution, in criminal matters, in material matters and, in particular, in matters of damages. But of course it must also be borne in mind that often the plaintiff in cases where he does not wish to make a claim — including in matters of compensation — and it is a crime that he no longer wants to recall it and that it causes shame and pain, does not want to come to court, but then let the prosecutor play his part and settles for decisions in that regard. And there is nothing to point out if the plaintiff is not present and hears how the case is dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u92	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 3/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The report is presented by the chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u93	Madam President! The main point of this government's proposal is to amend the legal period so that certain courts have the opportunity and the right to deal with summary disputes, i.e. to concentrate their proceedings on nine district courts. In addition, there is another important issue here: lodging a summons for summary litigation before a district court or the judicial information system on an electronic basis. And thirdly, there are minimal changes to the provisions of the Code of Conduct on the proven electronic service of the document. I will not go into that any further, but I will go over some of the first two issues here. First of all, this centralisation of the case-law of the Court of Justice: This is the background to the judicial reform programme for the years 2013 to 2025 and requires, as a medium-term measure, that summary litigation be either transferred from district courts to the enforcement authorities or concentrated on no more than three district courts. Well, this government proposal is now proposing to concentrate all cases of summary litigation on nine district courts. The aim of concentration is to increase efficiency and operational productivity, as the assumption is that the differences in handling practices and handling times will be reduced and the operation harmonised by reducing district courts dealing with summary disputes will be reduced. The concentration allows the district court to be geographically located further away than is currently the case. However, this does not undermine the position of the parties in terms of legal certainty and access to justice, since non-contributory disputes are dealt with in written preparation, which does not require the applicant or the defendant to travel to a district court. On the other hand, if a summary dispute becomes a dispute, it will become a ordinary or extensive dispute and will be referred to the district court which otherwise has jurisdiction, according to the motion. For example, a claim against a natural person is then referred to the district court where he is domiciled or habitually resident. The parties may, however, agree that the contested case will be dealt with by the district court dealing with summary disputes. Then a few words about the competent district courts: The starting point, according to the proposal, is that, in order to ensure the specific expertise needed to deal with summary disputes, the cases are concentrated in each court of appeal in one district court. However, exceptions are made where the number of cases to be dealt with or the linguistic rights give rise to them. The experts consulted by the Legal Committee, in particular the courts, have been contradictory as to which district courts are centralised. In the Committee's view, the proposal is a compromise in this regard, which has sought to take account of various factors, such as regional distances, linguistic rights, premises solutions and the impact on staff. Then a few words on this electronic business, Mr President: the Committee on Legal Affairs is in favour of the obligation on the legal person, the trader, the natural person involved in professional recovery and the legal agent and assistant to use electronic systems. The use of online e-services is increasingly being made of this type of activity. It is possible to submit an electronic challenge application using an information system connection. As this is subject to a fee, it is important that the challenge application can also be submitted electronically through the online contact interface of the judicial administration, as the contact interface is free of charge and easy to use and therefore suitable for non-larger creditors. However, it is justified that the obligation to conduct e-services should not be extended to a natural person acting in his or her own case, in which case the natural person may continue to submit a summary application to the District Court in writing. It was important to the Committee on Legal Affairs that individuals should be able to act as before, but then those who work are obliged to move to the electronic world. Then a few words about the impact on the staff: The Committee on Legal Affairs notes that when there are obviously reductions in staff, the staff reductions resulting from the proposal will most strongly affect the staff of the staff. The Committee considers it very important that efforts should be made to reduce the number of staff so that, as a rule, there is no need for dismissals. In the implementation of the reform, particular attention should be paid to the status of staff and to minimising the disadvantages they suffer. The management of district courts must also be invested in. Madam President! This, too, is such an important change that the Legal Affairs Committee makes the following proposal: ‘The Board of Directors shall follow up the restructuring of the structures of the courts andtheresults of the reform of the sum total of cases, with particular attention to the availability of the area of legal security, the enforcement of The Legal Affairs Committee discussed this in depth, and I would like to thank the members of the Legal Committee present and why not the others, but unfortunately we did not reach a unanimous solution on this issue and the report contains a clause on which we will obviously be hearing more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u94	Mr President! Summary disputes form a significant group of cases in district courts. Last year, more than 400,000 cases were brought to District Courts. This government proposal is a continuation of the reforms of the District Court. Summary things will be centralized. The bottom line is that the government has already carried out a reform of the district court, which eliminates district courts from 27 to 20. That in itself is a huge change, which in itself involves risks, so it is neither reasonable nor justified to make another such big and significant change at the same time. Many expert opinions have questioned the benefits of the presentation. One of the issues raised is the safeguarding of linguistic rights, the question of whether there will be sufficient multilingual staff in the new premises, the need for new premises in general and the need for legal protection, especially in the area of legal protection. Other solutions were presented in the expert consultation for dealing with summary cases. For example, the idea that we would have a national queue system in which the congestion of processing could be eliminated on a national scale was one of the ideas that emerged. This opposition protest is not opposed to more e-services, but is seen in favour. Of course, it is useful that the handling of matters should be smoother, but it is important for many customers to have the opportunity to act in a traditional way. But the sum summarum: the fact that summary cases are concentrated in nine district courts is not sufficiently justified by this timetable and on these grounds that this should now be passed on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u95	Madam Speaker! As shown by the government’s proposal, there are some 400,000 of these summarizing issues per year. That is why it is quite understandable that this system should be developed and treated in some way, in this case in nine district courts. But, of course, there are also problems involved. This also highlights the above-mentioned legal certainty and the legal certainty approach also on the part of the applicant, in so far as the summary procedure has speeded up the proceedings. It is particularly useful from the applicant's point of view in that the summary procedure means that the applicant's legitimate claim and access to legal protection are very often disrupted, even to zero. In that sense, there is an advantage to this whole procedure. And here, however, is the fact that if there is any dispute in it, it will be transferred to the district court, and it will also be maintained that this right of retrieval will remain for 30 days if the defendant subsequently wishes to do so. An interesting point in this case is when reference is made to the regional thinking and the regional solution that has been presented, that the District Court of Satakunta in my constituency is in such a different position, that its involvement in the Vaasa Court of Appeal and, on the other hand, the handling of these matters in the Turku Court of Appeal are causing problems and must be followed up, as the report from the Legal Committee shows, the problems that arise here and how this will be resolved in the future. Of course, it would be practical from our region, Kankaanpää, to see that these would belong to the District Court of Pori, and then the natural route of appeal would be to the Turku Court of Appeal. I trust that monitoring it will ultimately determine how this issue will be clarified. The fact that this case was brought before the Court of First Instance
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u96	Madam President! I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Tolva, and the committee as a whole, for their good and thorough handling of the summation of this legal cycle, which is, of course, typical of our committee. Nevertheless, despite the fact that we have come to an objection and have found no consensus on the proposal, I thank you. We have arrived at an objection because we have concerns and there is a risk here, according to experts, as they have pointed out, among other things, the Office for the Register of Legal Affairs, that this proposal would lead to a disruption of action by haste and duplication of many reforms. As has been pointed out here in the debate earlier, we consider the government's proposal to increase electronic services to be justified, as well as the development of the notification procedure in the direction proposed. However, we believe that the introduction of these e-businesses to be mandatory in the case of summary matters also requires a corresponding effort to be made on the availability of e-services systems. We welcome the Government's proposal's objectives of improving the efficiency of the handling of summary matters, but we believe that the Government's proposal has been unduly rushed and that, as a result, there has been some lack of preparation. The objectives set out in the proposal for the concentration of quantitative issues have been questioned in a number of opinions to be heard. According to our understanding, the new space and personnel resources and, for example, the costs associated with the transfer of personnel have been considered inadequately in the Government proposal. In fact, in the course of that debate it became clear to some experts that, on the contrary, the cost will increase with this proposal, rather than diminishing. The Legal Register Centre has also considered that the centralisation of cases requires significant changes to the Tuomas information system used by the courts. The implementation of these changes in parallel with the changes required for the revision of the District Court due from the beginning of 2019 would, according to the Legal Register Centre, pose a significant risk of disruption of operations. In its opinion, the Parliamentary Ombudsman's Office has raised a potential problem with the exercise of linguistic rights. A reform of the district court network is currently under way, reducing the number of district courts from 27 to 20. In addition, the administration of the judicial system is undergoing reform with the creation of a new judicial agency. We believe that these reforms should first be completed and experienced on the basis of how the systems work. Only after the establishment of the new district court structure and the administration of the judicial system will there be much better conditions for assessing the profitability and methods of implementing the concentration of summary cases and for carrying out any changes in a controlled manner without risk. That is why we have raised an objection in committee and will then present it at further readings.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u97	Mr President! Yes, the above-mentioned doubt about the electronic system is justified in its own way in the sense that I am concerned that, although the professionals mentioned here or others mentioned in the law are well in control of the modern electricity systems and know what that means, in practice, many individuals themselves wish to collect their claims by turning to justice, and by turning to justice in such a way that it is a unilateral judgment: is it so that they understand the district districts to which they can send it, and they understand that they can no longer send their claim in a normal way, but should know how to use that electronic procedure. It is worth investigating and monitoring whether there are many cases of accidental loss of justice which must not in any way be allowed to happen in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-25-ps-41.u98	Madam President! I would now like to stress that a private individual will continue to be allowed to act as before, in other words, with a purely paper application. He will not be forced into that electronic world. That was precisely what we were concerned about in the committee, because we know that there are no instruments or knowledge available to all people. Yes, a private person can do business as it is now, but this is, in English to put it, forced on such commercial operators, who even at the moment are practically operating there in the electronic world. There are some isolated cases, but they will have to study the electronic world if they are engaged in the business. But as far as the private person is concerned, there will be no change.
