ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u2	First of all, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u3	Mr President! In February, here in Question Time, Minister Saarikko, you said that the situation in home care is not as gloomy as is implied. However, we have been able to read alarming news about the situation of home care for Finnish elderly people in the early part of the year. Last week, YLE reported that according to Finnish legal scholars, increased home care for the elderly has led to neglecting. In February, it was reported that home care for the elderly is in a downward spiral, and there are plenty of these alarming news. The most distressed are the memory - stricken living alone in their homes. We have people in home care who can't remember when to eat or drink, where to go to the bathroom, or if you go out the door, they can't remember where to be. We all understand how much trouble a person has if he does not know where he is. Technology will not help this, even though the Minister has answered my question in writing. These people need 24-hour care in a community home. People have to have a guarantee that when they get old they'll be taken care of. Minister Saarikko, is the government going to deal with this and take new decisions,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u4	Mr President! Thank you for the important question. You approached it in a minute from a lot of points of view. Let me start with this debate by describing the answer to why I still agree that home care as such is not in crisis. After discussions with several experts, I have formed my overall view that there is a lot of good in Finland, some bad, but, as a rule, it is certainly mediocre or better treatment. Regional disparities and variations are large. We recognize from the THL studies that, if you look at the number of visits to an elderly person — that is, during a week, a month or a day — these visits have remained more or less the same. At the same time, however, we know that the pressure is greatest here in the big cities, where these bad news has come from. And the unfortunate thing is that good successes and valuable work from home care staff rarely end up on the news, more often failures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u6	Mr President, Minister! True, care professionals working under tremendous pressure are certainly doing their best. I'm sure we'll agree on that. However, nursing professionals must have a genuine opportunity to carry out their daily work without having to worry about who is not properly able to help and care for today. To that end, we should have the care services in order, and I do think that the minister is ultimately responsible in Finland. It now seems that, despite the government’s top projects and other efforts, we will continue to read weekly about the concerns of the elderly and the carers and the caring relatives in the magazines. In the light of your previous answer, it does sound like you have raised your hands in some way or closed your eyes to this need,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u9	Mr President! Let me start with your question on the euro share: After this parliamentary term, it is true and clear that the central government shares of municipalities, that is precisely the money that provides basic services for the elderly, schoolchildren and families, have not been cut. It was different in the past, but I don't think it's necessary to argue. I believe that we share the common concern, and I can quite openly admit that I cannot be completely satisfied with the overall state of home care, nor with the unfortunate reputation of the workers in the sector, which has been exaggerated from the point of view of the everyday work which is generally of high quality. You referred to the government's top project to improve home care for older people and improve family care for all ages. This work takes place in the field of practice, and according to expert judgements, its best success at the moment is to improve service guidance, that is to say, its first contact. But, as the representative said, there is still much room for improvement in home care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u10	Since the Christian Democratic Parliament Group also had the same question on the subject, Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u11	Madam President! Increasing efforts have been made to shift the emphasis on care from institutional care to home care, and there are increasingly weak and also memory-disadvantaged people in home care. There are too few staff, as has been said here, and often they are extremely overloaded in their work. Recently, a citizens' initiative has been launched to obtain a representative of the elderly who would act as guardian of the elderly, to ensure that every elderly person is properly treated, and also to bring various political initiatives to the debate. Do you see, Minister, the need for us, at national level, to take the case of the elderly to a better place? The concern of the citizens is great at the moment. Indeed, as you said, there are different practices in the municipality, the number of staff, the quality of the staff. Would not such a national guardian be of the utmost importance in such situations? This initiative was originally put into service by Sirkka-Liisa Kivelä — a well-known, recognised geriatri.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u12	Mr President! I have also had the opportunity to discuss the overall picture of care for the elderly with Sirkka-Liisa Kivelä. As far as the councilman on elderly matters is concerned, I think that the whole Finnish Parliament is the last supervisor of matters concerning Finnish elderly people and the Minister of Responsibility is, of course, responsible for the political guidelines that enable the provision of services in municipalities and regions in the future. I could support and support that initiative if I could be sure that it would solve this rather complex problem, the solution of which may not be a single lead project or a single delegate, but a whole change in the culture of action. It would also be terribly easy if, as a solution to home care for the elderly, we could say that money will be increased, while perhaps all of us, as parliamentarians, have visited places where the same money has produced a very different result from the point of view of the user of services, the elderly, and his loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u13	Madam President! The poor situation in the home care of the elderly has again arisen through very difficult situations. There has even been a loss of speech. The situation is indeed contradictory, for at the same time as institutional care and 24 - hour care have been dismantled, the number of home care workers has also been reduced. This is amazing because the number of customers will increase with the need for services for older people, which is probably why this situation has also become worse in part. Only 19% of employees say that the management plans have been implemented according to the plan. Conversely, it could be interpreted that 80% of home-based clients who live in the home are neglected. Minister Saarikko, what are you going to do to make things right for the municipalities? The situation of home care for the elderly now requires special measures from the state and the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u14	Mr President! The Government's top project on home care in various parts of Finland is looking for a few practical solutions that work, which would make home care more effective for both staff and users of services. I have high expectations of them, but of course I cannot promise that they will solve everything. The second dimension is that I quite agree with you, representative, that it is disconcerting that, at the same time, when a joint decision has been taken in Finland to reduce the power of establishment and the places of establishment, the municipalities have not allocated sufficient staff to home care. There are cures. There are regions and provinces where personnel have been invested. We all have a good idea of how the 24-hour home care has been increased and improved, but I agree with you that, for some strange reason, regional differences appear very large despite the fact that the money is the same and the law is the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u15	Mr President! A year ago, Minister Saarikko, in your place there was Minister Rehula in the ministerial box. A year ago, during Question Time, I wondered how the government was coldly cutting up the services of the elderly by as much as EUR 70 million. Your predecessor firmly believed that those savings could be achieved by, among other things, reducing the criteria for the rating of nursing workers. You will remember, even though you were not then a minister, that from the 70 million cuts proposed by the government to the services of the elderly, there was a terrible hello, so terrible that the government was frightened and had to withdraw from its demand. But it must have been forgotten by the government that you only halved those savings, the savings of EUR 35 million are still in force. Minister Saarikko, why has the EUR 35 million cut on elderly services not been cancelled in the spending limits debate? Isn't that the money?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u16	Mr President! During your own ministerial term, Mr Guzenina, the debate on care for the elderly has largely culminated in the definition of human resources. At that time, you did not end up taking it to the level of the law. The issue was strongly raised, but eventually it was not considered to be the right course of action in the then government. I think that it may also be a little too formal to approach this issue, to calculate decimals when it comes to a whole change of approach. As I said, we have not cut out the central government shares of the municipalities, that is to say, the big cash-out from the state to the municipalities, thereby undermining the possibility of implementing elderly services, but I share with you the same concern. The situation is not good enough anywhere in Finland at the moment, and there is much to change and develop, especially in your home town, precisely in large urban areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u17	Mr President! Minister Saarikko now did not answer the question as to why 35 million more nurses will not be hired. At the beginning of this year, 20 more nurses were hired in my own hometown, the year before that 40 more nurses were hired, the year before that 20 more nurses were hired. You're counting 80 more nurses. Now I ask you, when we get 1,000 more nurses on a national scale for these 35 million euros, why did you not call for this surgery to be cancelled in the spending limits debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u18	Mr President! In this context, I would like to highlight where these decisions and final financing decisions are also taken in the area of care for the elderly. They're made in municipalities. In this context, I would like to remind you that the condition of local government finances is now better than for a long time, years, years. It seems that in this decade, the millennium, there has not been as good a state of local government finances as there is at present. It is also up to the municipalities themselves where they put their investments. Of course, when municipalities also have their own tax rights, one might wonder whether they are using the tax law. In Helsinki, for example, municipal tax was calculated, which is in itself a good thing, but at the same time we know and see examples here that there may be bad situations in the care of the elderly. But I note that there are bad situations, inadequate situations in home care in both small and large municipalities and cities, and then
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u19	Mr President! Certainly the average situation is reasonable, as you said, Minister, but according to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, the need for intensive home care has increased, i.e. the proportion of patients who need a great deal of help. And yet we also know that in more than half of the regions, the number of home care staff has fallen at the same time, so this will lead to a rather difficult situation for its staff to cope with. Well, the workload of home care will be eased if the family members are involved and support is needed for the family and also for family care, which means that wider and stronger use of informal care will help in this difficult situation of home care in places. I would now like to ask you: in what way do you intend to promote the development of informal care? The support for informal care is quite low, and it is also taxed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u20	Mr President! Of course, as I said here, it cannot be said with clear eyes that home care for the elderly is in the best possible condition everywhere. On the contrary, as I said, there is much to improve. However, I also have the courage to assess, on the basis of the discussions I have had with experts, where we have made progress. I raise four of these points: The first is informal care. We have invested more — quite rightly, not in raising the level of support in itself — precisely in strengthening the ability of family carers to cope with training and peer support and by increasing the number of days off. Another success has to do with family care, that is, perhaps the kind of care that comes between service housing and current home housing, and which I would like to see grow even more in Finland. Thirdly, I would like to raise the issue of centralised service and customer guidance, i.e. where the family and the elderly themselves get information on how the services can be organised and how they are organised. Fourthly, Mr President, I would like to point out that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u21	Mr President! The Finns have suggested that informal care should be a tax-free income. A large proportion of family carers receive no compensation. Those who receive will receive less than EUR 400 — or the largest will be EUR 750. A demanding task, however, that is done out of love for the loved one. At the moment, about half of the holidays are used because no substitutes are allowed. Society saves billions of dollars while family carers do their job. So I ask the government: what have you done so far for family carers, so that there is still room for improvement in the future? These actions have been rather limited, and we need family carers very much in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u22	Mr President! I share the opinion of the representative that the work of family carers is a valued, important and, yes, also a very economical way for society. But on the human side so that we can be a family carer throughout the year round the clock, we have allocated EUR 75 million to the municipalities just to improve, and under the law they are obliged to do so, that is to say, to answer these holiday clothes better than at present, and those days have been increased. But I share the concern of the representative that the statistics show that family carers do not use holiday days, and it is based on the fact that municipalities have a place for development in what is a substitute solution for the holiday to which the family carer is entitled. I think that family care provides a good answer and a homelike solution. That is why it should be increased. And as far as informal care is concerned, a big change will be taking place in the provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u23	Mr President! The situation in home care is sad. The national policy has been that older people are increasingly being treated in the home care area and institutional sites have been driven down. However, there have been no improvements in home care resources, but an increasing number of elderly people who are more in poor condition are being treated by inadequate hand pairs. I went to see the situation of home care one shift, and perhaps the most stopping thing during the working day was that we have clients in the home care area who are fully bedridden. I find that really frightening, inhumane, and absolutely unspoiled. Nurses there tend to people, do important work at the limit of their endurance and with a great heart, but that is not enough. We need more skilled hands. I am concerned, Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u24	Mr President! War reform is only a structure. It is the basis, new forms of governance and organisation of how the work is organised. The change must take place within that new frame, and as has already been repeated here many times, we know very different results from different parts of Finland at the moment on how well the work is doing. I am also happy to receive an invitation to visit the day-to-day work of home care. I'm sure it would be eye-opening. Let me now say what are the points where we, as a government, have made improvements: We have developed 24-hour home care to support people who need a lot of services. Home care staff can be more involved and contribute to the development of their own work — they are experts in their work. In addition, we have improved home rehabilitation, especially in South Karelia. And the last thing I'm gonna do is bring it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u25	And one more supplementary question, Mr Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u26	Mr President, värderade talman! The idea of supporting home care for older people is aimed at good and humane, but the situation and quality of home care and human resources are not what we hope for in Finland. Too many home nurses do not have time for an elderly person, do not have time to come in at the appointed time, and an elderly person living at home feels insecure. It is also unreasonable to insist that all elderly people have to live at home, whether they like it or not. Minister, how do you believe that the social reform will have an impact on this issue? How will the situation in home care improve, and how can an important local service in general be treated there close to the elderly? And when you have to choose from a wide range of private service providers the right producer for yourself and while health and medical care
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u27	Mr President! Is the social welfare reform a threat from the point of view of elderly services or an opportunity, that is how I interpret your question. I believe that freedom of choice, which also comes as a customer voucher service to the home services of older people, is certainly an opportunity to be well managed. It will improve quality and effectiveness and will also increase the provision of local services. As far as the section on the impact of social welfare reform in general is concerned, I believe that, with greater responsibility, we will be better able to respond, for example, to the organisation of specific situations which in current municipalities can only have isolated cases, but in an area the size of a region already includes a number of people of working age who may need services different from those of the elderly. This debate has been very wide-ranging. I would have liked the opposition parties to have been able to come forward with solutions, but I hope that, at least in the future, you will be able to comment on the changes proposed by the government in the context of the key project, whether we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u28	Next question, Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u29	Mr President! When my child started day care, the staff asked me if you had any wishes. I said it is, I want my child to have love, care, arms, care, time, I want him to be heard and seen. The Government’s early childhood education law is really expensive, but why is this tens of millions of euros not being used to deal with the right problems, i.e. to increase quality in day care, such as reducing groups and investing in, for example, pay, which would make the sector more attractive? How to guarantee health care and medical care throughout the day of day care? Why does the government not appreciate the work of a nanny? Why does the government want to halve the number of nannies in the future, and what will happen to 9,000 nannies?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u30	Mr President! The Government appreciates the work done at a very high level in day-care centres and the expertise of all professionals there. That is why the government has had a lot of plans and also implemented measures to strengthen the quality of early childhood education, the latest of which is the new early childhood education law, which talks about what kind of human structure and how, by strengthening our skills, we can further strengthen the quality of early childhood education in the future. You also raised the question of remuneration, and I would like to make it very clear here that Parliament and the government do not decide on wages. They are decided by the social partners. But instead, I think it is very important that early childhood education in our society is valued and that this message is also passed on to the pay tables.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u31	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Huhtasaari continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u32	Mr President! The minister now did not answer the question of what will happen to 9,000 nannys — will they be unemployed because there was no answer? I do not understand why we need to change the staff structure because we do not have any research evidence that the current staff structure is not very competent. Why is it that the career of a socionomist as head of a daycare centre is prevented by demanding a five-year master's degree? Why are socionomists no longer as qualified as kindergarten teachers who graduate from university? At the beginning of May, kindergarten teachers also have 13 per cent of working time outside the group. Who's gonna take care of the kids?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u33	Mr President! Many questions — I try to answer as many as I can in a minute. I would like to start with the important message that the law preserves the current validity and also ensures that the transitional period of this law is long, twelve years. We will strengthen the quality of early childhood education in such a way that today, when one in three adults working in early childhood education is highly educated, two in three would be highly educated in 2030, or 12 years from now. We will build different training paths where current employees can also develop their skills if they wish, and it has also been estimated that with retirement this staff structure will naturally change and in day-care centres as well. This also, of course, requires that we invest in education and training in early childhood education, and that is what this government has already committed EUR 28 million in additional funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u34	There were two other parliamentary groups here with the same question. — Mr Hänninen, representative of the parliamentary group of the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u35	Madam President! Of course, it is very nice that the government is also interested in developing early childhood education, but it must be said that once again there is a great contradiction between what the government has said and what it has done. First of all, you removed subjective day care rights and increased group sizes. I myself have five children, and I am really concerned about how these decisions affect our children. There have already been votes in the ranks of the government parties that these decisions were a big mistake. I have to ask the minister: Despite criticism, why is the government not ready to reduce the group sizes of kindergartens in its new early childhood education bill? Why do you not take seriously the distress calls from the airport about the situation of our children and how our staff can cope?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u36	Mr President! Even as the mother of a child of day-care age, I value the work in day-care centres very high and see it practically every day. This government — a new opening to this much-discussed concern about group size next year — will respond in such a way that exactly where aid is most needed and most welcome, we will also start funding so-called equality funding for day-care centres next year, i.e. additional support and smaller groups where more assistance is needed, i.e. the most challenging areas. I believe that this will be very much needed and is an important move. What I would like to say, however, is that the law on early childhood education now before Parliament strengthens the quality of early childhood education. It's an improvement on the current situation. It strengthens skills in early childhood education and underscores the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u37	Mr President, värderade talman! Kvalitet inom småbarnspedogiken är mångsidigt kunnande. Vi behöver olika yrkesgruppers innser och kunskap för att kunna tala om kvalitet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u38	Mr President! Just as the representative well said, there is a need for multi-professional skills in early childhood education, and in future, according to this bill, they will work as multi-professional teams for teachers, socionomists, nurses, special teachers and kindergarten managers. To this issue of the level of education: it is also a genuine, important issue relating to this legislation. In this context, the government has already made two major contributions, first in the negotiations with universities, by one third permanently increasing the number of kindergarten teachers or the level of qualifications, and the second big opening is that a year ago we set aside 28 million, very significant funding, to raise educational levels in universities by one thousand. It is important for us to continue this same trend so that we can strengthen the pedagogy and quality of early childhood education and ensure that our day care centres are even better in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u39	Madam President! High-quality early childhood education is in the interests of all of us. One part of it is a high level of education, after which, of course, there will also be sufficient remuneration to keep appreciation and the sector attractive. It is important to ensure that everyone's skills are recognised. One great thing about this bill is the emphasis on the best interests of the child, as was said here. Then it is important for us to consider what is meant by the best interests of the child and to make sure that that privilege also comes true for each child. One conflict at the moment relates to children who are trans children who experience a different level of gender conflict. In other words, we are faced with a problem: when we do not take up and make extensive reform of the transfiguration, we are leaving this group of children, as it were, without high-quality, equal and substantive services for all children and families, so that the best interests of this group of children cannot be fully realised in this bill either. My question to the government is this: are you prepared, in the best interests of the child, to reconsider the overall reform of the transfiguration so that the objectives of this fine early childhood education law can also be fully realised?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u40	Mr President! I am aware that the early childhood education law, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Education, has both a section and a strong spirit on the ground,and that all families, different life situations and also each child as This is a fundamental principle of the law. The answer to your actual question: the government has no plans to bring the translation into Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u41	Mr President! The original author of this question, Mr Huhtasaari, asked why there has been no change in the whole group. I would like to remind you, however, that these decisions have been taken jointly by the Finns of Peru, i.e. the Finns of that time, the National Coalition Party and the Centre Party. It wasn't an easy decision for us. You can, friends, believe that that decision was difficult and was not made for its evil. I hope you can believe why it was done. Because the local government finances were in a very difficult situation. Why? The previous government had undergone drastic cuts in day care and primary school, i.e. by the Greens, by the Social Democrats. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u42	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is very good at describing and telling these things, and that is how things are going to be. This positive economic situation will also give us new opportunities to develop education, and that is why we are currently running not only the mentioned equality grants to day-care centres, but also from autumn onwards, an experiment on free early childhood education, which we will be expanding next year. We will have more children for free in early childhood education. Similarly, payments have already been reduced by around EUR 80 million during this term of government, and we are increasing participation in early childhood education because we know that early childhood education has many positive effects on the growth and development of the child, even on later learning. I would like to underline that when all of us here value a tremendous amount of Finnish teachers and Finnish comprehensive school and its success story has been strongly associated with the wise decision made at the time that teacher training was transferred to the educational faculties to the universities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u43	Mr President! Both care for the elderly and early childhood education are fundamental to the good functioning of our Finnish society. As regards the economy, which has been mentioned here, recent studies by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which will examine the local government finances, indicate that the local government economy is affected by the decisions taken over a longer period of time. There will be cuts in the last parliamentary term and in the past, which will be included in the billion-dollar category as a whole. They have been maintained during this parliamentary term, which means that the present government has not removed them. According to a recent study by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, as much as 400 million next year will be the minus proportion that will be taken away from the local government economy as a result of government decisions. Today I have received a fresh report on this matter. Well, now there is an obvious situation in day care that this new bill will increase costs, because when training requirements are changed, the result is that the old amount of money will be able to pay less than before.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u45	Mr President! I would like to answer the question of the representative in relation to local government finances. After all, now that we had the framework debate on the budgetary plan, we also made a municipal economic programme. This is done in cooperation with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and we share the view that the condition of local government finances is exceptionally good now. But perhaps what I want to tell you and remind you of now is that the most important thing is the state of the economy and employment situation in Finland. This will also give municipalities more tax revenue, both through employees and through corporate taxes, and will also give municipalities room for manoeuvre, which is also very important in view of 2020, after which early childhood education and education services will be the main legislative core of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u46	And one more supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u47	Mr President! Professionals in early childhood education do very valuable work in day - care centres every day. It is important that, in this debate, too, the misconceptions associated with this new early childhood education law have now been dispelled: among other things, all current workers retain their qualifications. I would like to thank the government for bringing the equality money to early childhood education, which will enable us to start on the path of making one of the biggest concerns, namely that of reducing the size of groups in the most challenging areas, possibly now. However, I would like to ask another question about this law. The purpose of this law is to have Masters of Education working as managers of early childhood education, and now socionomists are concerned that they do not necessarily have the same opportunities to move forward in their careers. Have there been discussions with universities in the Ministry about whether a socionomist can apply directly to master's programmes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u48	Mr President! This is indeed a concern that has risen from the field, but when you read the bill, you will find in the explanatory statement that we are now starting the development work on the training paths, which, in accordance with the Bologna model, will ensure that you have access to master's studies in both our higher education sectors. Above all, I would like to say from this law that there are very many misconceptions that we have tried our best to correct and correct from the ministry. I would like to say that this early childhood education law is based on the views of researchers. It has been prepared on a broad basis as a work of experts, and one can say from this debate that it has been going on for a few decades now. This law will strengthen the quality of early childhood education, increase the number of trained professionals in early childhood education and thus build even higher quality day care centres for our children in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u49	Next question, Green Parliamentary Group, representative Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u50	Mr President! Everyone is of the opinion that we need a reform of the social security system. There is no need to start a ship, and there is no perfect model, but a model that should be found that implements the reform objectives, starting with cost control, seamless care chains and narrowing health inequalities. Now the latest Social Barometer 2018 survey can be summed up as follows: preparation is progressing, discontent is growing. 56 per cent of social welfare and health managers considered the reform to be a failure in reducing inequalities. For social workers, the corresponding figure was 67 per cent.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u51	I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u74	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 2/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 25 April 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u76	Madam President! I'm in favour of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u82	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u101	Suna Kymäläinen, supported by Johanna Karimäki, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u102	Since Chapter 10, Section 17a has been adopted in accordance with the report, and paragraphs 19, 21 and 22 of Chapter 10 of the protest cannot be presented to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u103	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. In a letter addressed to Parliament on 19 April 2018, Representative Susanna Huovinen has requested exemption from the post of representative from 15 June 2018 in order to become Executive Director of the Mother and Child Home and Shelter of Central Finland. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u104	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion. One hour is set aside for the referral, which is until 6 p.m. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 8. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u105	Madam President! Currently, a jobseeker is not in principle entitled to unemployment benefit during full-time studies. However, the main activities of self-employment can now be supported by unemployment benefit if the applicant has individual training needs identified by the Employment and Economic Development Office and some other conditions are met. The above is now to be changed in such a way as to create the possibility for unemployed people to study for up to six months without losing unemployment benefit. The central idea in this proposal is that the unemployed would dare to start studies supporting their employment without fear of losing unemployment benefit. Studies lasting up to six months should continue to be notified to the TE Office, but the TE Office does not assess the individual needs for training and the main and secondary activities of the jobseeker. Well, the purpose of the unemployment benefit scheme is to support the reintegration of the unemployed. Therefore, studies should be such as to provide professional skills or support business activities. This condition is to be interpreted broadly. In practice, studies could be different periods of further education, for example. The TE administration does not participate in, for example, the acquisition of study places or student selection. Studying in the way possible in the proposal would not exempt jobseekers from the obligation to apply for the job offered and to participate in public employment and business services as a condition for receiving unemployment benefit. The income during full-time studies would continue to be secured primarily through student support. This is particularly true for young people, and the change proposed would therefore apply to those aged 25 or over. This age limit is therefore due to the primacy of the student allowance, and the age limit is an unambiguous limiting factor, unlike, for example, the setting of a limit on the basis of the previous training of the jobseeker. Studies falling within the scope of the amendment, lasting up to six months, would demonstrate the activity required by the so-called active model of unemployment benefit. As it is not justified to limit the change to persons aged 25 or over, the Act on Unemployment Security would be amended in such a way that all secondary studies of a job seeker show activity for a maximum period of six months. This applies to all jobseekers regardless of their age. Reading secondary studies as an indication of activity would apply to studies regardless of how they are organised. For this reason, for example, secondary studies offered online by educational institutions would show activity. The full-time studies of the jobseeker would also have the effect, under certain conditions, of not reducing the amount of unemployment benefit within the meaning of the active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u106	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u107	Mr President! Minister Lindström, thank you for a good presentation. Of course, the proposal to allow self-study with unemployment benefit under slightly more gentle conditions is certainly to be welcomed. It makes sense for people to be able to study between work relationships. It also makes sense that the TE Office, which still does not have the crystal ball, does not define what is part of professionally developing studies, at least under the strict conditions it has so far done. However, the proposal highlights a number of fundamental problems in our income transfer system, of which a few words now have to be said: Firstly, in this government proposal, it takes four pages, four pages, to open up the changes brought about by the reform, and this is just a small detail of the possibilities of self-study, which are a small detail in our unemployment benefit system. The system is so complex that no one is likely to control it as a whole, and there are no studies to take over it. The second problem here is that it further strengthens the completely arbitrary age limit of 25 years in our unemployment benefit system. When I was 25, I was the mother of a schoolboy, and my profession was a sociologist. There is no reasonable reason why I should have been treated differently to unemployment benefit at that age than a few months later, when I was still the mother of a school student and my profession was a sociologist but I had turned 26. Setting such limits for our system without any proper justification has not been a good idea in the first place, and it is bad that it is being renewed once it has arrived there. Well, behind both these problems — so that this reform is forced to be bureaucratic as it is at this 25-year age limit — there is an obsession to keep students and the unemployed as different categories of government, even though the idea of two separate groups has never responded to the real world and year by year is increasingly less and less in line with it and, in fact, in real life, in terms of both the national economy and the everyday order and management of people, it is only good for students to look for jobs and the unemployed to study. If we were ready to leap, jump in the dark, and we were to assume that anyone's studies and training will increase national capital and that is all right, nothing dangerous that needs to be managed and prevented and restricted, then what would happen, what would happen in this society then? What if we were to move to a basic security system where people would not have to be forced into categories that their everyday life has never been suitable for anyone, and it is always less appropriate, then what terrible would happen in this society? I think that the problems that exist in this government proposal are about the kind of friction that arises from our fear, the fear of making big changes in our thinking patterns and the fear of changing the system in a direction that responds to today's real need. It is good to remember that the history of the world so far does not know any society that has gone bankrupt because people study too much, and I personally do not remember any example of forcing people into categories, because it is administratively convenient, would have led to any good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u108	Mr President! Government measures and plans to reform unemployment security and increase employment rates work well. However, even in this case, opposition representatives seem to be very opposed to the reforms envisaged by the government. It seems that they would even like to maintain a system in which unemployed people easily pass through and fall off the back of society. I myself would like to build a society where unemployment protection is flexible according to the needs of people and jobs and rewards entrepreneurship and activity. That is what these reforms are all about. Mr President! The number of job vacancies is increasing. In Kainuu, where unemployment was very difficult for a long time, more than ten thousand, the number of job vacancies has risen from 450 to 950 in the course of the year, i.e. more than doubled. Unemployment has fallen by less than 4,000 and, however, the unemployment rate remains fluctuating at the level of the whole country at 8. At the same time as the number of job vacancies is increasing, we have an increasing shortage of labour. For example, TE Centres are told in Kainuu that we do not have experts for open jobs. In Kainuu, 44% of companies have problems recruiting. This is the largest figure in Finland, but other provinces also follow. The skills of the workforce do not meet the requirements of job vacancies. In many cases, with relatively short training or studies, the person’s skills could be updated so that he/she would have the knowledge and knowledge required for an open job. That is why this legislative change, which will enable the 25-year-old to study for a period of six months and thus develop his or her professional capacity without losing unemployment benefit, is very important. It makes unemployment security more flexible and rewards those who are entrepreneurial and want to develop their skills. The shortage of skilled labour does not only affect these individuals or certain companies, but is a wider societal challenge. If there are no experts for open positions, the production of the whole country will fall, and then the government will also calculate its revenue. It concerns a wide range of companies and workers at different levels. The problem also affects those companies which, thanks to their reputation and reputation, have no difficulty finding employees themselves. But they also find it difficult to get the components they need for their production from subcontractors who, on the other hand, have recruitment difficulties. For example, the situation would improve in such a way that, in addition to developing the skills of Finnish employees, it would be possible to freely hire experts from abroad, including from third countries. In this respect, the aim is to attract workers to Finland, for example, from Eastern Europe. The situation is comical in that even there is no desire to come to Finland, because net wages here are lower than in Germany, for example, even if Finland’s gross wages are higher than Germany. We will therefore be left at the feet of a more attractive labour market, and we need this growth. According to recruitment companies, the last of the employees who are attractive from the employer’s point of view are currently being transmitted. According to a study by the University of Turku, overgenerational exclusion will also continue to weaken the functioning of the Finnish labour market. Mr President! In the long term, the employment rate in Finland must rise close to the Nordic level, to 75-80%. Reforms need to be made now, during the boom, otherwise the central government finances will not be put on the right track. Recent measures to improve competitiveness have been modest in relation to what we need in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u109	Mr President! In a written speech, Mr Suutari used the word prepared for the opposition's criticism and this is not good enough for it. It is, of course, wonderful that we are talking in the plural about Mr Kontula, who spoke first and who said right at the start of his speech that this is a good proposal and that it will help us to tackle the problem of contact. I do not like the criticism that we are already taking a stand so that we do not find anything good anywhere. We could hold this debate so that the Minister can respond if we have some ideas for development in this regard. In my opinion, the artificial age limit is a stumbling block for this government: it is three months and 25 years. None of that will contribute, but all the fact that we, who have already been trained, have already been able to enter the labour market, who have graduated and received temporary jobs, should be able to do so because:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u110	Mr President! As Mrs Myllykoski has already said, the only opposition to the opposition did not object but supported this proposal, and the opposition here would like to say that it did not want to maintain the old system, but rather proposed a radical reform of this old system of ours — so radical that the government would not even dare to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u111	Mr President! I wanted to point this out in precisely that way, because yesterday we discussed the same issues and the opposition, for example, a representative. Heinäluoma told me here and later in the very way that he did not criticise the motion but all the other proposals that the government has made. And in this debate I would just like to say that, when we are not discussing the same issue here, but are discussing in general terms what everyone else has done, I would hope that now, with my mistake, there will also be a debate at the other end on what is at stake.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u112	Mr President! We couldn't agree more. We are here to discuss this particular proposal and we are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u115	On the list of speakers, Congressman Heinonen. - You have an excellent memo there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u116	Mr President! I was a little absorbed in an excellent, fresh article. But let's get down to business now that we wanted it. Unemployment will make it easier as the economy grows. At the same time, employment will also improve. But unemployment is not actually making things easier at the same pace, and we have regions like the representative in this debate. The shoemaker pointed out that there are major recruitment problems at the moment, and these areas – which would not be the first to come to mind – are Kainuu, Lapland, naturally through tourism, but also Satakunta and many other places. We still have too many unemployed people. However, we still have tens of thousands of vacancies. So there's no one to do the job, and I'd like to give it to Mr. Lindström. [Department : Minister! ] We have to offer further training. In fact, we need to give all employees better opportunities to take care of their own skills. The change in our working life is so important that such an update is needed by each of us, including those who are working, and then I myself am encouraging companies to see to it that there is a need for additional and retraining of the workforce, even when the workers are there at the workplace.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u117	Excuse me, Congressman Heinonen, I forgot it was three minutes from the scene. I've been out of this house for two or three weeks, and I didn't remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u118	Mr President! This is an absolutely commendable proposal and I believe that it can also contribute to meeting the challenges we face in access to skilled, skilled labour in certain sectors. The SDP proposed opening up self-employed education without consideration in its programme two years ago, and I am glad that our thoughts on this matter go in the same direction with the government. Furthermore, the suggestion that self-styled studies should be counted as measures suitable for an active model for all ages must be supported, even if I do not accept the logic of the active model in itself. But this is a step for the better. This law guarantees the possibility of six months of study. I now hope that this will not be taken as a criticism, but rather as a reflection on what issues we should focus on in the future, because this is an important issue and the Minister is there. This will safeguard the possibility of six months of studies, but this will not increase the opportunities for training. Then the risk is that the training places that we have available will now, as it were, be directed only by new people, but we will not necessarily get more trained people in this way. And this is there the underlying question, which you should pay attention to and see what is happening here. If self-study is carried out in those positions where training places remain open but there is a shortage of labour, then it works as it should. But if this is just replacing students with other kinds of students, then we will not get more skilled labor. And this is one thing I hope will be followed by what is actually happening here. The second point is that we have a reason — as I understand that the government is doing — to assess the whole of our adult education system. We now have a number of different mechanisms, even for the unemployed. First of all, there is normal self-employed training, which can be obtained through the TE Office's assessment of whether education improves labour market capacity. There is no time limit, but it is more discretionary as to how long you can study with unemployment benefit at the time. Then there's this free part. In addition to this, we also have vocational training for the unemployed, which is currently covered by the normal VOS system, and we also have other training on labour market policy, which takes place through the purchase of TE Offices. Now the messages that have actually come from the transition to VOS in former labour market training are such that it no longer works as agilely as it used to. I would like to see a proper analysis of this: will it be possible, as a whole, for those who are most willing to be trained, to open up more paths, but for those who we should actually push a little into vocational training, we will close the gates? When you go to vocational education and training on the side of the VOS system, even if you go through the TE Office, you actually need to get to it. And in the case of many unemployed people, the problem has been that there is a willingness for education but has not met the criteria of our educational institutions in order to be able to attend it. In this respect, vocational labour market training in the traditional sense has been an instrument that has been agile and has enabled training to be provided in sectors where there is a shortage of skilled labour. Now we do not have that instrument. This system works on its own, but what I miss about this whole is that we still have the ability, on the part of the labour administration, to direct those who are trained to those sectors where we really lack skilled labour. This has now disappeared quite far from this mechanism. Of course, when joint training is carried out with companies, the best way to direct them directly to jobs is to do so. We all want to increase the amount of that education as much as ever, and I am sure that there will be no government in this country which, for example, would not add money to the budget if there were a demand for such training. But the problem is that there is not enough demand for it. Even if companies are in labour shortages, they do not necessarily want to go into such joint training. That is why I would like this system to be considered in terms of the agility, the efficiency and speed with which this VOS system can be achieved in the same way as in the past through vocational training in labour policy. The second thing I would very much like the Minister to intervene and to clarify is whether it has happened that, when we open up these self-employed people, the people who have already been trained go there and then the unemployed who are most in need of training are going to be a little weaker in this regard. I hope that this will be taken seriously, because I think it is a priority for us to tackle structural unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u119	Mr President! This is a very good proposal, and a very good one was also the previous speech, which opened up this issue a little more widely. I would say that I do not really believe that this proposal will be the decisive one to secure the availability of skilled labour. The government has indeed made many other proposals which have been very good in this respect, such as the proposal to significantly increase the tax deduction right for second homes, and also the incentives that have been put forward here along the way. But I think that this proposal is very good in the sense that it is a very important question for the legal protection of these unemployed, because during this system in force I have also received a lot of contact from myself with situations where a similar type of training is accepted for a very similar type of applicant and not accepted elsewhere. The fact that we are getting rid of this now because some Employment and Economic Development Offices or Ely Centres have interpreted it more rigorously or some individual officials have interpreted it more rigorously than others is very important and that this is a step forward. When people have a desire to study, there is already a lot of evidence that there is such activity that is worth rewarding and not punishing. But I believe that, in this situation of employment, those who are very active in studying a new profession for example for themselves will, in any case, be employed very quickly, either through this study or without it. I believe that this is, above all, a question of justice and I am sure that there will be individual people who will be able to help with this, and this is an important point to take forward. However, just as Mrs Filatov said, we must also have models where we can also make a little effort to study there and then guide people to those areas where there is a labour shortage at the moment, where opportunities are available and where not everyone necessarily applies on their own. But with all this, this is one piece here when the system is improved, and thanks for the fact that it is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u120	Mr President! The draft law proposes that jobseekers aged 25 or over should be able to complete studies lasting up to 6 months if they provide professional skills or support business activities. In doing so, unemployed job seekers would retain unemployment benefits. I did not notice that there was an upper age limit in the proposal and therefore I understand that the proposal covers all jobseekers of working age and working capacity at the age of 25 and above. I think that this is an excellent proposal in the current change in work, because it supports the opportunities for unemployed people to increase the conditions for employment and start up business through study. At the same time, access to skilled labour and the creation of new businesses — both excellent things. The draft law would change the law in force so that the TE Office would no longer assess the individual needs for training of the jobseeker, that unemployment benefit would not be paid increased, but that the jobseeker would remain subject to the obligation to apply for and be prepared to take up full-time employment and to participate in employment-promoting services when they were offered to him. I dare think that a well-motivated job seeker will do this. Therefore, studying would not be a valid reason to refuse the job or service offered. The previous sentence may give rise to debate in committee work, but I dare to assume that a good and constructive debate will also allow this to be understood and recorded in the committee's report. Under certain conditions, the studies of a job seeker would also be regarded as an activity within the meaning of the so-called active model of unemployment benefit, and this is an excellent thing. I have received a lot of inquiries and hopes when there is a different way of showing activity, whether it could be demonstrated in such a way that you would apply for training and train yourself. If such a possibility is granted, this is the most excellent way of once again supporting an unemployed job seeker in employment, so that an unemployed job seeker demonstrates his or her activity. Mr President! Once again, the bill is an excellent demonstration from Minister Lindström and the government of improving access to employment for the unemployed. I'm in favour of the bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u121	Mr President! Here we must join in these thanks. Making it possible to study independently with unemployment benefit is certainly most welcome. In these speeches, the question has been raised as to why six months and why 25 years. I myself am thinking about it, but I am sure then, if we think that we must be able to see the difference in professional qualifications and also in matters relating to actual full-time studies and student support, then some restrictions must also be placed there. It also opens up new opportunities to support these professional capacities and, on the other hand, to be able to think of this as a form of training that supports business activity — I am thinking, for example, of different entrepreneurial courses, similar types. That may be just, could you say, a lower path to entrepreneurship for someone who wonders if he has something to do with it and might need something to train for it? In that sense, this can be just such decisive support. Then I would have liked to ask the Minister about this, when it says that ‘under certain conditions’this can be read as part of an active model: have some of these special conditions been met,how has the legislator considered,how are certain conditions? And then, perhaps, when I think of immigrants who are already outside of integration support but who may have shortcomings in language skills, for example, and which prevent them from being employed in the labour market, it is possible, for example, that language training in folk high schools or a similar type of education could be of the kind, certainly in support of professional capacity, that unemployment benefit could be studied in a better Finnish language, for example. All in all, this many speeches have highlighted the fact that these challenges of Finnish social security and unemployment security and then of reconciling work are considerable. And I must say, pending the forthcoming reform of the social security system, that hopefully we will then be able to make these joint points easier. But absolutely this government proposal is a step in the right direction and one that, you might say, already in common sense, many have been suggesting for a long time that it would be possible to do this kind of self-sustaining, vocationally-supported study.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u122	Mr President! This amendment to the Unemployment Security Act, which the Government has brought to Parliament, is a bill in accordance with Juha Sipilä's Government Programme. In this context, I would like to thank Minister Lindström for his courage and open-mindedness in taking these matters forward. I know that in your position you have heard various comments, which may not all be very pleasant to the ear, when you have courageously brought these legislative proposals here to Parliament. This is an example of a law which actively seeks to ensure that the government, through its own actions — not just giving money, but a clear activation measure — is able to ensure that an unemployed job seeker can, if he is 25 years old, study and receive that unemployment benefit at the same time. This is an example of what we should do in the future anyway. We have more than 200,000 unemployed today and more than 4 billion in unemployment expenditure this year, or roughly 4 billion. It is self-evident that of the more than 200,000 unemployed — I am not a statistician, but this is such a guess of everyman — probably half of the workforce is the kind that could be obtained by a rather rapid training, conversion training or some of the methods proposed by this bill, by some means, back into the labour market, even for the shorter employment relationship, in order to get started. But then again, the other half must be doing a little more work, and as we all know in this house, many of these people, who have been unemployed for a long time and who have various diseases and injuries, would probably have a glorious way to retire and thus have a clear prospects for their lives. But the fact that we have a shortage of labour and that we currently have 70,000 free jobs — just under 70,000 free jobs in this country at the moment — shows that we have a very serious problem of not meeting jobs and workers. Transformation training is quite right, and then such legislative proposals, which are able to use state funds in a rational way, so that people are better prepared to become involved in working life and then benefit society by paying their taxes and, above all, by entering the social environment that the workplace represents for them, and by collecting pension security for the old days. At the end of my speech, I would like to ask Minister Lindström: Of course, this is still small and minor but one way among the many other ways. What do you see the effect of this? How many unemployed people can take advantage of such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u123	Mr President! This bill contains positive elements, as has already been pointed out here in the Chamber debate, and this is an example of a positive way of mobilising the unemployed. We should have seen more of these similar measures, but it is good that this proposal has been brought here. Mr President! An unemployed job seeker would therefore be entitled to unemployment benefit without prejudice to studies if he or she has reached the age of 25 and lasts for a maximum of six months and provides professional skills or support for business activities. When the law enters into force, the unemployed would thus have the opportunity to improve their labour market eligibility through studies. These factors are, of course, likely to facilitate the later employment of the unemployed person. These studies would also meet the conditions of the active model that entered into force at the beginning of the year. They have been and are in some respects unreasonable. This change is therefore a positive step in the right direction, but, as such, it does not, in particular, entirely resolve these shortcomings in the active model, which, here in Parliament, exactly a week ago, were discussed vigorously in the context of the debate on the citizens' initiative which called for the dismantling of the active model. This is particularly true for unemployed people under the age of 25 who are not covered by this bill. But, Mr President, I would like to raise to some extent the low income limits for study aid. In fact, students do a lot and are very happy to do a short-term job that suits them better than many other groups, but especially as the end of the year approaches, many students will have to wonder whether they should take any more hours of well-suited part-time work as such, because this can easily lead to the recovery of an entire month of study aid due to the fact that even a small income limit is exceeded. On this matter, I myself have a personal experience of my own years of study, and there have also been some contacts from the citizens now that I have been here as a Member of Parliament. Mr President! One possible solution, or at least a relief, to this problem could be a clear increase in the income limits of student support. Unfortunately, the Minister of Education is not here today in the debate, so I ask the Minister of Labour, Mr Lindström: could the government consider raising the income limits for student study aid to improve the job opportunities of students?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u124	Mr President! This debate well shows that the gap between studying, unemployment and work is beginning to fade in such a way that these statuses vary very often in a person’s life and become those problems. In fact, there is no simple solution to this except that, in the long term, we have a uniform level of both student and unemployment benefit. Otherwise, we will have to create these artificial systems, either at the age of 25 or some other obstacles that always lead to a person’s desire, as it were, to speculate a little with the status he has, depending on what makes a better living. I hope that this would be the long-term goal of Finnish society. I know that it is not immediately feasible because it is a relatively large solution, but I think that it would be an absolutely desirable solution for a knowledge-oriented society and would certainly increase Finland's competitiveness, the availability of skilled labour in the future and that people could, in different life situations, be able to study fluently at different ages, as if work were to run out of control. The second point I would like to draw attention to is that, in the context of these changes, what has now been done, for example, at the time of the reform of vocational education and training, has become more rigorous in the interpretation of secondary activity in vocational studies, if you are unemployed. In fact, this means that if we have a young person who is under 25 years of age, if he has gone to work very early, become unemployed and may have studied a vocational degree on a secondary basis, he will not be able to continue that secondary activity if he is unemployed if he studies over a certain number of credits. I think this is one thing that has happened quite accidentally. I don't think that's what anyone specifically meant. We drew attention to this in the context of vocational school reform in committee, but the substance committee focused more on this aspect of education and did not take it into account in any way. But when I said just now that we should do such an overall survey, I would like this aspect to be included in the overall report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u125	Mr President! During this debate, too, it has been hoped that this government proposal will provide a solution or answer to the company experience that has been in the debate about recruitment friction. I personally do not believe that this proposal will have time to influence the problems of the moment. Instead, I hope that the facilitations that are now being created for the study opportunities of the unemployed will be the first step towards a social security system that allows people to study whenever it makes sense. Last week, a report by the Committee on the Future of Europe on radical technologies was published, 400 pages containing a huge number of predictable professions, new professions that require more or less new skills. And many of these skills are such that there is no way that a TE Office official or such a line politician today can say so. My guess is that, for example, as transport logistics becomes more automated, among other things, the skills that young people practice by playing computer games suddenly become professional skills on a completely different scale than they are at the moment, and they must also be able to study as professional skills. Thus, vocational skills are unpredictable skills, and in the future it is assumed that at least part of the change will be so rapid that it must also be able to respond significantly with shorter study modules, with individual skills studying alongside its actual qualification. These are both such tendenses that will be strengthened in the future. Let us hope that this is not the end of it, but that this is a step-by-step move forward. There is still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u126	Minister, let's say two to three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u127	Mr President! Thank you for the conversation and thank you for the feedback. This was refreshing because, in my opinion, this was a constructive debate. Mr Kontula started this and I quite agree that we have a very, very complex system of unemployment security. I fully agree with the problem raised by many that we have these limits. On the other hand, we need them, but it may then lead to a change in human behaviour too, of course. When we have looked at these in the government, what could be done in a way for these trainings and training matters, of course there will also be a finance minister watching how much this costs. We already have a very expensive education today, and they are looking at it with a really magnifying glass. On the other hand, we need these paths to work, we need that work life-oriented training, and we need that support for these unemployed people to get back, be able to improve their own labour market position, and then there is always that price tag for all of this on the other side. Between them we try to balance and look for solutions that last and that are smart, and that may not always be easy. I agree with what Mr Filatov said in his excellent speech, where there were many things to say, said: in general, therefore, now that we have made these reforms, we need this kind of comprehensive study after all this – is a vocational education reform, this and is much more, much more. We have made decisions about business-oriented training, that companies are becoming more and more involved in work-oriented education, because it is more and more of the future. I was, indeed, in Question Time, preparing for the presidency in Croatia, and the problem in Croatia too is that there is a young workforce, a skilled workforce, running away from it. This is a Europe-wide problem. There's this same message coming from everywhere. Of course, we are exchanging thoughts on what should be done, and monitoring is very important. Of course, I will do everything in my power to ensure that the decisions we take must be followed up and then corrected if necessary. This is a really good question as to whether the people who are actually going to education are going to go there, and I do not think that this direction can be underestimated at all. It's really important. Mr Essayah, you asked about these specific conditions: Indeed, this is the 25-year age limit. Well, in order for all jobseekers to have the opportunity now to show activity through their studies, the law is actually being amended so that other secondary studies show activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u128	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. An hour will be reserved for the referral, from 6 to 7 p.m. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 10. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u129	Mr President! This is, therefore, the implementation at national level of the Passenger Name Record Directive on the wider use of passenger data in air transport in the fight against crime, and it is an important issue in the preparation of how we can combat, in particular, terrorist offences and other serious forms of international crime. In practice, therefore, it is a question of compiling in the PNR the information provided by each passenger reservation on a European basis — name, address, contact details, method of payment — which carriers would be obliged to transfer to passenger data units set up by the Member States. In Finland, such a passenger data unit would be the criminal intelligence unit of the police, Customs and Border Guard, which already exists as a unit to this day, and this criminal intelligence unit would analyse data according to pre-defined criteria and in particular compare data with databases relevant to the fight against terrorist offences and serious crime. The aim is therefore to identify those who may be involved in these terrorist offences or other serious crime. The past ten years have shown that such a register could have been used to track down situations where people involved in terrorist organisations and terrorist offences have travelled to different Member States using air transport in Europe. However, this has also, of course, been taken care of, and this national implementation in relation to the Finnish Constitution ensures that, in order to ensure privacy, this criminal intelligence unit does not deal with sensitive information that is not covered by our constitutions and our EU regulations. These could only be handed over on a reasoned request in individual cases in accordance with the legislation. Mr President! With this proposal, the toolbox of the police, Customs and Border Guard will indeed be equipped with an important new instrument to combat terrorism and serious crime, which, compared to the costs of setting this up, will certainly be worth the money in how we can combat serious terrorist acts. Unfortunately, in Finland too last autumn a terrorist suspected act of this kind has been experienced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u130	Mr President! This implementation of the PNR Directive is certainly necessary in particular in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. However, I would have liked the Minister to be more specific when you spoke about certain sensitive information about whether, for example, dietary data or something similar ethnic religious profiling can be done on the basis of this information. On the other hand, you also stated that only a very clearly justified request should be made for this information to be passed on. So I would have liked to be more specific about this. What type of information request process should it be for such information to be disclosed, and can it therefore be handed over to, for example, third countries, such as the USA or any other country outside the EU, on the basis of these justified requests? Of course, when the EU Data Protection Directive comes into force too, will there then be some issues that must now be taken into account, or have they already been coordinated at this stage when this national implementation is being carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u131	Mr President! I thank the Minister for a good presentation and the government for a good proposal. Terrorism is a common problem and challenge for Europe as a whole, and this is the kind of legislation that we need and therefore cooperation on these issues. In view of the cases that have occurred in Europe, passenger information relating specifically to air transport is a very important issue. Many of these people have used this form of travel, either to leave Europe to join a terrorist group or to come to Europe. So, a very important question. Mr Essayah's question on the point of view of ethnic profiling is also well-founded, and I am happy to hear the Minister's answer to that. The other side is serious crime. My impression is that the number of organised crime organisations in Finland has increased over the years, and I would ask the Minister: How do the issues of organised crime in this respect appear in this legislation? How can this be prevented?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u132	Mr President! It is good to agree with previous speakers in the sense that my only concern is, in fact, the directive on the disclosure of information in the EU which will come into force in May: is it all taken into account here that we are not doing something that would cause us some difficulty in this regard? That is what I would now like to hear from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u133	Mr President! Of course, the regulation proposed here is based on the protection of personal data and privacy guaranteed by Article 10 of the Constitution and also on the protection of private life guaranteed by Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Within these framework conditions, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), including the precedents of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, partly defines the type of data that can be recorded in any situation. As far as the questions raised by the representative on this point are concerned, this is a relatively complicated legal matter, and I am not going to go into any further interpretation here, but it has been described in this HE, and I am sure that the committee will go into this further. The same applies to extradition to third countries. The starting point here is that it is precisely through the European authorities and the European security structures that we are trying to secure European security, and I believe that progress will lead us in the direction that the fight against terrorism will increasingly take place within the framework of the European Union in common structures. Fortunately, data reported to Europol, for example, has increased significantly and is used more operationally. This is the center right here. The disclosure of information is always a delicacy. For example, in the field of intelligence law, it is dealt with in very similar principles.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u134	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion. An hour is reserved for the referral, from 6.15 to 7.15 p.m. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the 11th item.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u135	Mr President! I consider the government's proposal to be a good reform in this area, that the government has taken a strong position on it, and in this way also wants to promote the potential of domestic cinema to be more successful, so that we have new instruments, and if not so new instruments now, then we will be pioneers in that respect. Now I think that this government has taken a good position that Finnish cinema can receive better funding. This is a good whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u136	Mr President! State funding is absolutely essential for domestic cinema to be produced at all. However, the field has been concerned that the Finnish Film Foundation's current policy and decision-making culture has not been very transparent and, for example, the criteria for obtaining support have not been transparent. According to Cupore's recent research, men are clearly receiving more public support than women. This customer survey has risen widely to public debate in the cultural sector. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the draft law does not include a gender impact assessment, which could be good for social debate and for changing the climate. However, this bill also sets out ways of addressing harassment and inappropriate treatment in the film sector. This is a very good and necessary reform, which is also linked to the current situation and also to what has been going on in this Chamber. Me too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u137	Mr President! Unfortunately, we do not have a minister present here, but, just as Mrs Halmemenpää pointed out, the transparency of the film foundation's policies and, of course, this other debate that has now been around the film industry has, of course, been regrettable, but it is an extremely necessary proposal from the government itself. It says here that in connection with the Film Foundation there would be a council set up by the Foundation. I have not been able to read this government proposal carefully and I am not sure whether there has been any position here on how to set up this negotiating board. Is the sector itself complementary to itself here, or who is making appointments to this negotiating board? These would, of course, have been the points which would have liked to have heard the Minister's views, because very often, then, in the negotiating councils of this type, the so-called 'good brother' system may cause the sector to get warm-up and then, for example, there will now be a financial and other division, which may then be further weakening this transparency. In that sense, the setting up of such a council and the criteria for that council and also those who are placed there would seem to be as clearly defined as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u138	Mr President! The bad things that have become apparent in this area would not now be included in this government proposal, but will then be kept within the industry to take care of and discuss. I don't think our conversation here... Well, it may be that we can use our own speech here to give impetus to the fact that, with this reform too, they will be highlighted, and the committee will certainly be able to intervene in these matters. But I am sure that this government proposal has already started before this unfortunate issue came up, which is repugnant and in no way desirable. I think this is a good thing in that what Mrs Essayah said, I have not personally observed that such sexual or similar financial orientations would have been, but then I have to start looking at when we have this sort of Villilä Studios in Nakkila, which serves and produces service productions for film production companies, and we have been filmed there for over a dozen long films and this thing is pretty close to me and essential that if this kind of thing can only be shown, I will certainly come to it with my own words to say. However, I consider this reform to be very good in principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u139	Mr President! As a friend of Western movies, I think one day I'd have to go to Nakkala and get to know the good stuff. After all, this bill also contains ways of dealing with inappropriate activities and harassment, but if you think beyond this question — and this is an important question — then Minister of Culture Terhohan has appointed a liquidate to investigate harassment and inappropriate treatment, particularly in the film and theatre sectors, and there is a Docent, Deputy Judge Jaana Paanetot. This will then become proposals to focus and intervene in this matter at the Ministry. This study has already begun and will be decided by 6 August. In other words, it is a great thing in Finland that this situation is taken seriously both by the media and by decision-makers. But of course we must also take account of the fact that, then, in the decision-making process and in the financing to which Mr Essayah referred, these same things must also, of course, be taken into account. So there have also been views in the field that the gender would have some effect on how this kind of funding goes, i.e., of course in practice, guessably, women have received less than men. This, too, needs to be clarified as to whether there is some inappropriate motive behind this, or whether the causes are somehow more common. These are not very simple questions, but are calling for clarification, and that is where the Minister for Culture, Mr Terho, has now played his part.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u140	Mr President! In my previous speech, I did not mean to make any reference to the fact that the broad debate on harassment in Finland and other societies has somehow been seen as a driving force for the preparation of this law, but I am pleased that, according to this draft law, production companies should have codes of conduct and procedures to resolve the suspicions of harassment or inappropriate treatment which have arisen and to eliminate any irregularities. The guidelines are, of course, a good step in the right direction. However, it must be noted that: The Actors’ Association has pointed out that actors do not have collective agreements, which reduces the use of all kinds of protective networks. One more positive aspect of this bill. When the opinions criticised the fact that in the original proposal the support decisions were presented to the Board of Directors of the Finnish Film Foundation only by the CEO of the Finnish Film Foundation, not also by the production advisors, this has been corrected to this final bill. Production advisors are now also involved as rapporteurs for aid decisions, which is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u141	Mr President! Fortunately, further information can be found in the article on this council, which I myself went for. Indeed, it says here that it would be an interactive discussion forum between the Film Foundation and the film industry, in which there could also be a public authority, and the board would be chaired by the Director of the Film Foundation and, on the other hand, by those other parties who would participate in this conference, would be those who could receive production aid, distribution aid and scriptwriting grants. In other words, it seems that this negotiating body itself aims to ensure that the sector is widely represented, and certainly that authority should be involved, and this will be set up for three years at a time, in accordance with this paragraph. In other words, there will be more detailed legislation in this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u142	President! After all, this is a long-standing and well-expected reform. The Film Foundation will soon be 50 years old, and in this 50 years the world of cinema has changed in many ways and the environment has changed so that it is necessary to modernise the legislation. The field has changed, and the operating environment has changed, the operating methods have changed, and, above all, digitalization has changed technology. So I agree that the Me too campaign has just had a lot of impact in the film industry, but it is then its own story. It is, in itself, a great thing that has happened, and also that Mr Terho has been active in setting up a rapporteur on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u143	Mr President! Mr Halmemenpää actually said everything I had to say. But it has to be said that the authors have a collective agreement, but not on the scale of actors who do what happens in film production as freelance work. There will then possibly be agreements, how much the film produces, how their rewards will be generated through it and so on. But then the photographers and the lightmen have a collective agreement in the field when movies are made. Perhaps we now seem to be quite united, though now it seems that the lines are strengthened with more blue dreams than in other ways. Sometimes you dare to say thank you, Mr Terho, that it has been well taken over.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u144	President! Somehow it is great that this law will be adopted this year, because this year too is becoming a great year for Finnish cinema, as it was last year for the Unknown Soldier and the Ikitie, to mention some of the points. Yes, I am also very excited about this year of Finnish film: Markku Owlönen’s guidance on the history of settlement activity is coming along — and on my birthday, if life days are granted, on October 5 a film about Olavi Virra is coming to the premiere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u145	Mr President! I thank Mrs Myllykoski for these praises. The one time I get them from a left-wing union, I'll take them all the time. In this context, however, it is also worth noting that this government has made a lot of decisions in favour of the Finnish film industry. In particular, I have been commended — for example, my own brother is a film director — for the production incentive in the audiovisual sector, which was decided on in 2016, EUR 2.5 million. So this bill is just one part of a large package of government measures to support the Finnish film industry, and this production incentive will certainly play a major role as part of other activities. When you think of our Nordic competitors, especially Norwegian, Swedish and Danish television sets and films are known, but Finland is not yet in the same way, that is to say, the intention of this government is to get Finnish film production to the same level. With Nordic competitors and also attract foreign industry productions to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u146	The debate is closed. — Let's take it back. Congressman Myllykoski has no choice but to say. You did a lot of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u147	It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. It's all — I must say, thank you only for the film by Olavi Virra. We wieners haven't been in the side section.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u148	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. One hour, 6.30 to 7.30 p.m., will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is the 12th item.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u149	Mr President! As in the previous case, this government bill is very much to be welcomed. This proposal therefore proposes to amend the Student Support Act and the Law on School Travel Assistance for Students in Upper Secondary Education and Vocational Education in such a way that basic education organised for students who have exceeded their compulsory education age, in practice for adult students, is considered to qualify for student aid and school travel support. This type of study is considered to be the main activity if there are at least 22 courses per academic year. In particular, this proposal will improve the financial capacity of adults from outside the labour market to study, and also of immigrants in particular. The student allowance is suitable for adult students to secure income during studies if other funding options, such as unemployment benefit and adult education support, are not possible. This right of access to school travel also promotes access to education and is targeted particularly at those who have a long school journey, a study trip and significant school travel costs. I warmly support this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u150	Mr President! This is indeed a worthy proposal, and in particular it will help, as has been said here, immigrants. After all, we had to make changes to the Basic Education Act in so far as we then have people who have exceeded the compulsory school age to complete the basic education. And, of course, this will also help those disadvantaged or, it is said, those in a fairly impossible position in the labour market who, for some reason, have not completed their basic education. Of course, there may be, for example, a long - term illness at the time of compulsory schooling, and years may be fought against that disease, such as cancer, and then at the point when you have the opportunity to complete these studies, this compulsory education age is already over. In other words, this is an extremely important and worthy proposal. And when I looked at the figures that had been estimated here, though, these amounts are quite small each year. Firstly, there are the small amounts of those who are eligible for this aid, and then, bearing in mind that not everyone who is entitled to this aid will receive it, in that sense too, this is a very small amount of money from the state's financial point of view, which, however, is extremely important for these people, because it is reasonably difficult for the Finnish labour market to manage today if the amount of basic education has not been completed. So that basic school certificate must at least be obtained from there, and it does not go far enough, but definitely it is the certificate that opens the doors to further studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-26-ps-42.u151	Mr President! Mr Halmemenpää and Mr Essayah have already had the good arguments for this proposal, but I will just clarify and add to Mr Essayah's speech a little on the financial side. Indeed, these costs for the State are not very high in relation to the benefit here, i.e. EUR 300000 this year and then EUR 1.1 million the following year, and for school travel aid EUR 60000 — such a small amount — this year and EUR 200000, well higher since 2019. In other words, a major issue is not referred to in the economics of the state, but humanely and in the lives of these people this can have a very significant impact, as Mrs Halmemenpää and Mr Essayah pointed out in their speeches. In other words, once again, from the government, one proposal among others, which, as a whole, clearly improves the status of students.
