ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u1	The second issue in the order of business is the election of the Deputy Ombudsman of Parliament. The Assistant Ombudsman shall be elected for a period of four years starting on 1 April 2018 and ending on 31 March 2022. Representatives have been given an extract from the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which includes the committee's assessment of those who have made themselves known. The applications of those who have signed up for the mission have been shown in the Central Office. The election will take place like the election of the President. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. The ballot shall contain only the name of the person to be elected, so clearly stated that there shall be no confusion about the person intended. The other kind of ballot will be rejected. The election will be held using one urn. The representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn in the order of roll call and in such a way that the contents of the flag are not visible. In the election ceremony I request the following representatives: Tapani Tölli, Kalle Jokinen, Suna Kymäläinen and Kari Kulmala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u2	The result of the vote shall be declared.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u3	Ms Maija Sakslin, Licentiate of Law, has received more than half of the votes cast, and has been elected as Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman for a term of office from 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2022.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u4	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Law number two on transport services is now at second reading, and so I now read the objection contained in it, which includes us Social Democrats, the Finnish Social Democrats, the Left Alliance and the Greens. The objection includes a wreck and a motion for a statement. Overall, the objective of the law to open data interfaces must be supported. The wider exploitation of information in order to create a more efficient transport system must be our common goal. However, we are concerned about the fairness of the draft law. Based on the presentation, different rules and obligations exist for different actors in the same operating environment. Nor is the proposal sufficiently precise to define the opening of interfaces, and coordination and responsibility issues remain open. In the same way, extensive additional work and clarification is required in terms of self-determination and passenger protection in the travel chain. In this respect, the issue of responsibility for the whole requires considerable clarification. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also reacted to this same incompleteness in its unanimous opinion, in which the committee, by way of exception, only raises a number of problems with the clarity of regulation. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the government's proposal is very difficult to understand and therefore does not represent the objective of smooth regulation. This is a fundamental threat to the clarity of the legislation. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, regulatory techniques can lead even to experts having difficulty in understanding regulation. For ordinary citizens, understanding and understanding regulation may be almost impossible for the committee. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered this regulatory technique to be confusing and burdensome. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the legislative proposals contained in a government proposal are in some places almost incomprehensible to the ordinary citizen. When it comes to a general law applicable to transport services, the law should, of course, be understandable both in its form and its content. Finally, in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, such a major technical change in regulation in committee involves risks and this kind of change is otherwise a matter for the ministry to prepare for as a basis. As signatories of the objection, we share the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' assessment of the imprecise nature of the draft law and of the work in progress. It was not possible to correct the shortcomings of the proposal in committee because of the scale of the problems. I therefore propose that Parliament rejects the government proposal from 1 to 59. the draft law and that Parliament will adopt one statement, which reads as follows: ‘The Council of State shall prepare the draft law again on the basis of an opinion issued by the Constitutional Committee’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u6	Mr President! Indeed, Parliament approved the first part of the legal phase of the project and called the law a law on transport services, and now it is the second part, which complements the law on transport services and enables customer-oriented transport to be developed as a service. The proposal would change the current state of affairs in which the regulation of the transport market is divided into several legislative acts. By bringing regulation together in a single law, the transport services market could be seen more easily as a single entity. Of course, traffic regulation is very much based on international regulations and arrangements, but efforts have been made to do so as far as possible in Finland. The Government has digitalization as one of its strategic areas. It is reflected in this legislative package when new transport chains are being created and customers’ access to services is facilitated. What is essential is that the benefits are visible throughout the country, especially where public transport is not working or there is no public transport at all — and I am not talking about the West Metro. The package deals with road transport, railways, education, professional qualifications in the future. A lot of experts and interest groups have been consulted in committee on details such as accessibility and administrative practices. Constitutional considerations are taken into account and the committee has given proper guidance on what to do. The opposition has also been consulted. But the structure of the law is certainly exceptional and its content is, of course, quite critical. As has been said in Mr PeV's opinion, the lack of clarity of laws is a rather difficult issue here. This second part will certainly have to be addressed and corrected at some point, and this issue of fairness will also have to be raised. This is certainly not the first law that Parliament has to correct. Traffic will be electrified. Digitalisation is part of transport and transport services will be accessible to everyone. Even setbacks will be seen and experienced. This morning, for example, news was reported from the United States that Uber’s self-controlled car collided with a pedestrian and she died of these injuries. I'm sure they'll be looking for both this robot car and Uber. It remains to be seen how the matter will be dealt with and who will make it up to whom. The need for mobility is changing, and that is why legislation must also change. New business and service providers must therefore be made possible at the heart of the customer's mobility needs. For example, considering track three between Tampere and Helsinki, why can't it be a pilot project: it's its own company, and there would also be competition for operators. The opening of information will continue at this stage of the Transport Services Act and will be necessary when considering travel chains. There is a so-called 'yes' that flagging different travel chains together with a single means of payment would be possible through a single ticket system. Think of how many years this has been spoken in this house, and now we are trying to promote it. In order to ensure a balanced involvement of the various actors, existing traffic data reserves will be opened up. Legislation and legislation on professional qualifications will be reduced as much as possible in the form and application of European Union legislation. In rail transport, this is now being done, for example, with regard to the professional qualifications of train drivers, maritime transport and air transport. These last two are very regulated by the EU, so we have to apply a lot of the legislation that we have been given, as the Committee on Transport and Tourism generally has to apply these to Finnish conditions. Now that many different laws are being combined and a new service system is being created for transport services, it is necessary to monitor this development and, if necessary, to make corrections and inscriptions to these laws, because there are very critical voices here from the text of this law. Indeed, the third stage is still on the way to the Transport Services Act, and that will come back to in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u7	Mr President! First of all, I support Mrs Taimela's protest, the motion for rejection, which involves the SDP, the Greens, the Left and the Finns. This opening up of interfaces and its problems, the lack of clarity in their resolution, is one major factor. However, when we make a new kind of legislation, where there is no room for interpretation, we are talking about the safety of people and about the confidence that transport chains and travel chains are working, and where there is already a contradiction in coordination under the law, it is quite clear that the law should be developed in this respect and, knowingly, even at this stage, a law which has major shortcomings in the regulatory clarity. As we heard earlier, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also taken a strong position on this and is concerned about how ordinary citizens will interpret this law when there are already difficulties with experts in this regard. Parliament's most important task is to make laws that are clear and that guide people's actions in the right direction. That is why, knowingly, a law which is already vague and contrary to good practice by its regulatory technique cannot be adopted. I also support the statement made by Mrs Taimela. In this regard, Mr Alatalo said that progress should be monitored. Yes, it is indeed necessary to follow, but it would also have to be found that, when laws are made, a law is made such that people will also be made clear of it. This should be done by experts in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u8	Mr President! Act No. 2 on transport services aims to bring the fragmented market regulation of transport into one piece of legislation. The declared aim of the Government’s proposal is to streamline the regulations, which supports the Government’s leading project to dismantle standards. Unfortunately, we're in a hurry to shine through the law. It is clear from the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Committee considers the government's proposal to be so difficult to understand that it does not therefore represent the objective of smooth regulation. Similarly, it is evident to the layman that understanding and understanding of regulation are almost impossible. There are so fundamental problems with clarity that this cannot be regarded as good legislation. Despite the formal shortcomings of the proposal, the consolidation and streamlining of regulation and the utilisation of the potential of digitalisation and the opening up of information interfaces in transport services are worthy objectives. However, as a legislative project, Act No. 2 on Transport Services is so large in scope that it is not possible to correct its shortcomings in committee. For this reason, the Finns of Finland believe that the bill should be rejected as such and returned to basic preparation in the light of the shortcomings raised by the committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u9	Mr President! Representative Alatalo went through this big piece of law and also went over the details. The objectives of this package of laws, which are to reduce unnecessary regulation and promote the provision of new transport services, are certainly to be welcomed and must be taken forward. All in all, transport will certainly become electrified in the future, both in the years ahead and in the long term, and will become very different from what it is today. The government's proposal is practically the second part of a large three-part legislative package. As we are talking about an overall package of nearly 60 different laws, it became very clear in the extensive expert consultation of the Committee on Transport and Communications that the committee was able to clarify and clarify a number of points. They make a good point of that report. The third stage of the Act on Transport Services will come to us here in the Chamber and it will also clarify the whole of the law. That is why the two statements in that report by the Committee on Transport and Communications are fully justified and will also be taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u10	Mr President! The law on transport services is very much to be welcomed and ambitious in principle and must be promoted with every effort to open up these interfaces and create new opportunities for movement. In that sense, I would like to make the point made by Mrs Alatalo that this is needed and that this has long been expected. But the form in which it is now being brought here does show that an unrealistic timetable has been set for an ambitious objective and that a wolf and a second has been made. If last week I was able to praise the Law on the Finnish Meteorological Institute that it was a good test, but the top of the line, then, unfortunately, this is where the stomach bill came in. That is why, at this stage in my speech, I support Mr Taimela's motion for rejection and the motion for a statement. It is important to see that we should be able to make legislation that people could understand. If the experts tell us in the hearing that this is incomprehensible and refer to the statement made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I sincerely hope that no one will ask Mrs Myllykoski about the content of this law if you could clarify what this means, because I do not have the tools to tell anyone anything about this except what has been sought but what is not yet done. I very much hope that the ministry will know when this will be rewritten, because the Minister and the official have a different sense of timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u11	Mr President! I am pleased to hear that Mrs Myllykoski, for example, states that, in principle, the law on transport services in part 2 could be passed through Parliament and contain many of the good things and reforms that our society needs. The law is not unconstitutional. That was certainly not brought to our attention by the Constitutional Committee, so the law can therefore be enacted in this form. However, we agreed that monitoring and clarifying the regulation and the whole of this Article jungle needed to be made to the final stage when Parliament's law on transport services comes to Part 3 in order to make the law more readable and understandable. But we legislators can understand what this is all about, and those who need to apply it know what it is about. We went through professional qualifications in air, sea, rail and road traffic. It is a large entity and contains many, many laws that are brought together. In the future, transport will be more and more a service where digitalisation, robotisation, automation and electrification of traffic are today. I was talking at the first reading of the law about a granny who, with one ticket, gets the whole travel chain, and that's what we've all been hoping for. In addition, when road, rail, air transport, maritime transport, ticketing systems are combined, other transport services, vehicle rental, various series and season tickets, discount tickets and the like can be put into this one and the same service. That is what transport services will do in the future
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u12	Mr President! Mr Vehkaperä, you said that Mrs Myllykoski said that this was a good reform in principle. This objection, which we have also lodged, begins with the phrase ‘the objective of the law on the opening of the information interfaces’, but does not seem to indicate that the report of the Committee on Transport and Communications194 will I have been able to work humbly in this house for more than 10 years, but in a similar committee hearing, to have to finish these conditions and statements,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u13	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski's instinct for self-preservation asked for this response, so that no one would have the wrong idea now when I jumped into this project like a moving train. To that end, we agree that the objectives are good. One was made. I would also like to stress that I find it surprising that the best taxi system in the world was scrapped in this context. It was a disaster.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u14	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u15	Mr President! The Transport Services Act: one of the most important points here is, in my view, the deregulation that this draft law is seeking, and that is indeed what it is doing. It is true that it is very difficult for transport to make a bill in plain language. We all have our own view of the current road traffic law that it is clear-language. Representative Myllykoski brought up the first stage of taxi traffic. That law, too, is a law on person-ordering, and it is now called a taxi law, which means that this kind of clear language in this legal text should be achieved. Then we would be much better able to understand each other here, and perhaps this art of misunderstanding in this Chamber would always be diminished. Of course, the new law will deregulate, and it is also important in the transport sector, and I believe that progress should be made in this regard. It is wonderful to hear in this Chamber that ‘all support,but’. If this is the beginning of such a debate,there is a risk that we will be using our war and county reform,that 15yearsfrom now I think it is important that this bill is now moving forward and then correcting individual issues and that it always provides clearer and easier to understand legislation. Perhaps the next reading, which could take place, would be to think about open data interfaces, what that means. I do not think that everyone is yet able to understand what it is about, but the text of the law is generally rather difficult to understand. But let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u16	Mr President! After all, this law on transport services is a three-step legal project, and now we have this second stage in the debate. There has been a lot of criticism here that this is not a fluent piece of legislation, and it is certainly true that it is not entirely smooth. Of course, it is always possible to specify legislation by means of regulations and to provide guidance to it. However, I believe that the most important thing about this law is that smooth travel chains are made possible. If the legislation is not very smooth and completely understandable, then the most important thing for citizens is that these chains of travel are smooth, and that is what this is all about. By imposing an obligation on transport service providers to open interfaces, from schedule, route, charge or accessibility data, for example, it will help people to form those chains, to use more than one means of transport on one ticket and thus facilitate people's mobility. This will ease regulation, promote digitalisation and enable us to make use of our transport system as a whole, regardless of the means or mode of transport that will then be used along the route. There is also a great opportunity here to create new business and new services for transport, and that is why this project must now be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u17	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr Talman! Den raut lagen är en viktig del i moderniseringen och digitaliseringen av transporttjänster, samt också att förenhetliga behörighetsfördelning och utveckla nya resekedjor. Målsättningen är således bra och mycket viktig. Det är dock alldeles uppenbart att beredningen av lagen gått mycket snabbt — för snabbt — effectsom det funnits många brister samt också direkta felaktigheter i lagförslaget. Grundlagsutskottet tar upp detta i sitt utlåtande, något flera ledamoter redan tagit upp ox. Det rai lagförslaget är inte estrot grundlagen men det är ändå viktigt att ministeret noggrant tar del av utlåtandet för framtida beredningar. Kommunikationsutskottet har gjort många ändringar i förslaget och rättat till flera direktifeter, inte minst sådana som berör Ålands självstyrelselag och där förslaget variant i strid med Ålands självstyrelselag. De sakerna har variants alldeles nödvändiga att rätta till. Det auri visar också det mycket omfattande betankandet från utskottet samt det förslag som finns till uttalande. Det är viktigt att poängtera att det inte är ricksdagens roll att behöva dubbelkolla så grundläggande saker som om lagförslaget står i strid med exempelvis Ålands självstyrelselag. Det är ministers och lageredningens uppgift att controlera sådana saker, och rauh behövs battring i framtiden. Med det sagt behövs ändå den rai lagen, och således kommer jag att stöda den raus lagen, men hoppas att älsningen tillministeriet och lagberedningen går fram i fortsättningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u18	Mr President! A good place to take the floor after Mr Löfström. The excellent speech actually summed up this situation, which is what it is. I note that the whole committee shares the criticism that the wording of this law is such that it is not desirable and must be corrected in accordance with the guidelines of the Constitutional Committee. The majority of the committee concluded that we are writing this statement, which has already been heard here, which reads: ‘The Council of State will require the Council of State to prepare a draft of the project in the form of a run-by number based on a clear and rational structure of its language. “ This is, in the view of the majority of the committee, an adequate level of compliance with the Constitution for Stage Three to be adopted. I would say that if this phase 2 were abandoned at this stage, the situation would be quite problematic, because phase one has been accepted and part of it is already in force. This situation has already changed, so to speak, and cannot be withdrawn. This is the more responsible, sensible situation to move this forward in a more controlled way, so in Stage 3, Parliament clearly requires the Ministry to prepare:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u19	Mr President! Quite briefly, because Mr Jalonen is, however, chairman of the committee, it is a very bad feeling as a member of the committee to listen to the responsibility of taking this law, so to speak, this second law, now in some hurry or under preparation, because we have already adopted the first package of transport services in this house, or some of you, or the majority, have accepted it. It cannot be the case that legislation is being passed in this House in such a hurry with regard to some of the deadlines for existing legislation, that we know, when we do this second part, that we are failing and, for example, we are having to make the kind of statements that we have now had to make in the Committee on Transport and Communications, which is, in a way, a very scandalous statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u20	Mr President! I understand and appreciate that speech. The difference in view of how this situation should be resolved is only in this solution. Criticism, on the other hand, is in common. I think that this should be emphasised. I just said that if this were abandoned at this stage, there would be extremely problematic times when phase one comes into force and phase two would have been abandoned. In this case, this time running would bring those challenges. In fact, we must now invest in this at the Ministry that it comes in such a condition, as a package here, that it can be accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u21	And the reply, Mrs Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u22	Mr President! I very much understand the criticisms of Mr Taimela and the opposition against this package of laws and against this process. I think it was also a motion for rejection of the law on transport services to phase one, or there were objections to that, and so I can well understand the criticism of this too. However, phase one and phase two are interlinked. There is a lot of legislation in this second phase relating to aviation, shipping and rail, which must also be brought to the same level as it was in the first stage. So it is good that we get this stage from now on and that the ministry will be able to write that step three forward, so that it will also be brought here to the Chamber and the Parliament for discussion. And I sincerely hope and believe that the Committee on Transport and Communications' statement that this is a necessity will then be taken into account in the third stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u23	I will give Mr Mere and then Mr Taimela, who left the debate, the reply which has been long awaited by Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u24	Mr President! However, we must be surprised that the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of which I myself am a member, is being underestimated. This same problem has been on the table for over a year now. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that the government proposal under assessment is so problematic that it is almost incomprehensible to the ordinary citizen, and it is a matter of general law. To whom do we write these if they are not taken seriously in the Ministry and on behalf of the government? And when the Constitutional Committee stated in its previous opinion that even experts find it difficult to find out, who is now interpreting these? Surely the fact that the law is only in a hurry and there are important things in it does not mean that it can be a full wolf and clean, so to speak. Of course, people should be able to figure it out. Take these concerns of the Constitutional Committee seriously now, for God's sake. We're serious. We work there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u25	Mr President! During the speech by Mrs Torniainen, there was a situation in which we are now opposed to this because of opposition, but I must say that many preparatory speeches, for example during the debate of the Committee on Transport and Communications, clearly stated this — and I would also like to stress this at this second reading here in the Chamber — that this criticism is not so much political at this stage but is of a legal nature, and that legal criticism is, of course, directed at these points raised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I would also like to point out that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs was certainly not uncritical in taking a stand on this point in our motion. In other words, there are also strong criticisms of this aspect and of what is happening in the name of data protection and the protection of privacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u26	It is still reasonable to give a reply to the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalos.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u27	Mr President! Let me just say briefly that the committee does not under any circumstances underestimate the opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but has taken them into account. This criticism is shared by the whole committee. Only the solution to this problem is different.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u28	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u29	Mr. Speaker! In this debat, a little bit of this same pajatso was said as if I had said it myself, and now I say that in three years, there have been three shifts in the government's transport package: the one that broke down the Finnish taxi traffic and its system well known to all of us Finns, the two that undermines the credibility of lawmaking, and with interest I will look forward to what happens there in the third stage. If, as the chairman of the committee has said here, the criticism is common to the committee, it would, of course, have been understandable and desirable for the committee to have come to a common decision on how to correct this matter. I guess it can't be the target state, the target state of Parliament, that Parliament becomes a government renovation man and corrects the shortcomings of the law that the Ministry has left in the government proposal. I understand that little inscription, it is the Parliament's job to do so, to correct and bring the political angle to that government proposal, the corner of Parliament. But it cannot be done in such a way that the government fails to carry out its duties and the ministers fail to carry out their duties and give Parliament incomplete legislative packages, such as the Constitutional Committee, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, in a very exceptional way in their own opinions, express criticism and justifiable criticism. If, from numbering onwards, legal technology is started to be learned and practiced here on the Parliament's side, if it is not mastered in the Ministry, then it is a big loss for Parliament. I hope that these speeches, which have been raised by representatives of Taimela and Myllykoski in this debate, will now be taken seriously, and I very much understand the opposition rejection motion on this issue. I would have liked the majority of the committee to have found the courage to defend Parliament's authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u30	Mr President! Not much to add to these speeches, but it must be said that, if the Government is preparing laws at different stages, it really must respect the possibilities of Parliament and bring to Parliament only legislation that really listens to experts, whether there is something else that could be changed, which might improve it, or whether there is anything to be corrected at all. But the question of timetables must never mean that it can be used to make a wolf and a second. It's not just part of the culture of this house, that you can throw a bucket of stuff in here from time to time and say, "Let's put this together," as a furniture closet:yes,but you can screw it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u31	Mr President! I look at this a little longer than I am a member of that committee, and at the beginning I thought I would listen to the debate and wait for the section which is on its way. But when I began to listen to this and look at it a little bit, it must also be said out loud, President, that this situation is extraordinary in the sense that Parliament has had to point out the level of legislative drafting every once in a while, but when it comes to this level, that the committee is quite ghastly supporting the government quite rightly for careless preparation — here the representative says that I hope I will never have to interpret this law, because I cannot take responsibility for it — then we will go to what Mr Kari has just said, in a way, this second stage, if it does not alter the credibility and reliability of the legislative system. Of course, this should not be the case. Of course, it is worth mentioning that the chairman of the committee also says that the criticism is common, but the conclusion on how to do it is different. But I think that the opposition and Mr Taimela's protest are quite justified in a situation like this. President! As far as I am concerned, I should like to say in this speech that what this so-called first package left in the taxi field is indeed extremely destructive, and I must say that I have not looked at it in good spirits. As I said, with terror, we will see what the result will be. But let us hope that this Parliament's contribution will be taken seriously. It cannot be that, here, Parliament is almost completely rewriting a law if the level of preparation is not good enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u32	Mr President! Indeed, I would like to emphasise this once again: the chairman of the committee pointed out that the committee considers this to be an adequate level and that the solutions are different. However, we are talking about legislation. Citizens, entrepreneurs and experts should be able to interpret the law. It should be as unambiguous as possible and, as society becomes more complex, greater attention should be paid to its punctuality and precision. Let me remind you of this statement by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which states that this is almost impossible for ordinary people to interpret, and the previous opinion has said that it is difficult even for experts. The citizens are often in touch with me, too, that how some law is interpreted, that you could help and play a little bit. Sometimes, when you look at them, it's really complicated and difficult and you have to know the legislation really well. But if the Constitutional Committee already states that this is almost impossible to interpret, then I do not know what a different solution is. Why hasn't it been possible to fix this already? It's a little weird like that. This issue of timetable is also reflected in this reform of our social security system. According to my information, there will be more social legislation coming from there in the autumn, and yet we are going to have to deal with this whole reform by the summer. That's when we do it partially blind. Now it seems that when it is a year before the elections, there is such a hurry that nothing can be dealt with here in peace, but everything must be done only at an ungodly speed, that, as long as these are dealt with now, please do not criticise it. I do not know — if that criticism is no longer allowed, then the whole Parliament will be closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u33	Mr President! To Mrs Merelle, when this matter was before the Committee on Transport and Communications, the committee heard very much and also listened to a very large number of experts and took into account the views of the experts, and the Committee on Transport and Communications also made many and several clarifications on this large package of laws, all these laws. You can go through it from here, there's a lot. The Committee on Transport and Communications worked very hard on this. For my part, I can agree with the chairman of the committee that the two statements made here by the committee are genuinely the views of all the members of the committee. The statement that has now been discussed here is: ‘The Council of State requiresthe Council of State to prepare a package based on the running of a draft of the project in a clear and rational manner.’
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u34	Mr President! Is this objection now out of date, which is here, this which some members of the SDP, the True Finns and the Greens have done on 8.3.2018? However, when you say that everything is well and in agreement, does not this objection raise these concerns of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? Let me ask you a question. Is this a solid piece of paper, or has this been left here by mistake?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u35	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u36	Mr President! There will be criticism from the representative of the sea as if it were not ordered and not asked to do so. But, of course, there's room for criticism in the world. It's a three-step whole. It is good that this is being taken forward now. For a long time, our movement has been very fragmented. With the exception of urban areas, the chains of mobility have ceased to operate at long distances and in a sparsely populated country, if any, and in general these chains of mobility always require their own passenger car for at least part-way. But if we were to have one ticket and the whole chain of movement and perhaps the need for all the movement and movement in the same whole, then we could achieve that in this type of country we could get schoolchildren, commuting, including the elderly, who live in a small remote area, or, on the other hand, that such a person would also receive a package in the future on time when it would be possible to be in this same chain of mobility, for example, a food service that is currently being provided in many municipalities with different equipment than children. We have a lot of situations like this, which is worth rationalizing. Now that this debate has been listened to and the work of the committee as an alternate to this day has been followed, it is good that such a statement has been made. But, of course, after this statement there is a feeling that this should not be the old normal and not the new normal, that the legislation is now not in plain language, but in a language that even those who have the task of following and interpreting it understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u37	Mr President! In my view, this traffic service law, number two, is very good, at least insofar as it pays particular attention to digitalisation. That is one of the greatest opportunities for future transport in many respects and makes transport easier, improving services, making it smoother. But of course there is also the threat that was heard in the news this morning when a person was hit by Uber’s uncared car and then died under it on that American continent. These are the risks of this digitality, and this too will probably have to be taken into account in the future. That's for these Uber supporters. It has been well said here that the first law would have been, somehow, just that last summer's law on taxis, but there was much more to that one than just a reform of the taxi law. In that sense, too, I would like to remind you that the opposition, even in the vote last summer, was not in favour of maintaining the current taxi system as such, but was seeking reforms. After all, it is now implied that it was as if we were defending that taxicab law as it stands. Reform was offered, and now reform is being made. Now we're going to the taxi side, too, through new possibilities. Time will tell you where it leads. This will only come into force on 1 July, and at the moment we are still going through the system of existing legislation, which means that this image will not be distorted in vain in that it would have been merely a reform of the taxi law and the opposition would have been on the side of the old preservation as such. After all, there were reforms and changes in your proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u40	Mr President! I am not taking a position on this first piece of legislation when it was a year ago, but this second piece of legislation does require more attention. The opposition has also been awake this time, and this is worrying, above all, in terms of the government's behaviour depriving good legislation of credibility. I hope, however, that this is now such an encouraging example for the future of Parliament, that we will not make such an ambiguous legislation which, above all, employs lawyers and civil servants unduly. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the point of view of what kind of legislation is coming out of this house, that now this system of citizens' initiatives, which is constantly bringing us new and new initiatives, is increasingly employing not only parliamentarians but also experts and the whole parliamentary system. How can we guarantee that good legislation will be adopted here when we come to one after another with initiatives that we do not know how to go until the political power relations are settled in those committees? Personally, I do not think it is a very good development in the current legislative process for citizens' initiatives, and in that sense I would like that debate to be held with courage once again as to whether it has lived up to its time, especially with such a small number of names as 50,000 signatures during the digital age. I would like to see only well-prepared legislative initiatives in this House, both by the government and by anyone else, and sufficient time to study them, so that we do not end up with a legislative cycle in which we always correct bad legislation during the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u41	Mr President! I can well understand that the representatives of the government parties defend this bill by, among other things, doing something now and then correcting later and the main thing about moving forward. Regrettably, there are many times in this Chamber that we will then be corrected later. But what are we going to do if the reform that has been carried out can no longer be corrected? It may be that something irreversible has already been done that cannot be corrected. In my opinion, we in this House should have legislation that is interpretable and that will last years, either unchanged or with minor changes. It wasn't all right when we were preparing this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u42	Mr President! First of all, it is very easy to agree with what has been said today, in which it has been said that the objectives set out in this government proposal to streamline transport regulation and to develop transport in general are not only ambitious, very worthwhile things in themselves. However, on the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the report of the Committee on Transport and Communications and even the speeches made by the representatives of the government parties, at least some of them, this draft law contains very important problems, particularly because of its lack of clarity. Criticism has also come from the parties of Minister of Transport and Communications Anne Berner in the city centre, as has the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications here in the past. Mr President! Among other things, Mr Alatalo raised a number of problems, to which reference has also been made in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and, as Mrs Alatalo said, the draft law before us is most likely to have to be corrected afterwards in a significant way, and of course it cannot be anyone's objective. Mr Vehkaperä said that the legislators can understand what this bill is all about, and that is a good thing, of course, that even the legislator has an idea of it, but the laws should also be understandable from the point of view of the ordinary citizen. Mr President! Mr Pakkanen also mentioned the long period of time spent on social reform and hoped that both social reform and this law would be speeded up, but at least personally I am of the opinion that it would be better to have proper legislation at one time, which does not need to be adjusted afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u43	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me take this opportunity to say that as long as this debate is carried through with a maximum of 2 minutes' speeches on the ground and when there are now a limited number of representatives in this debate, I will not be happy to give a one-minute recess without a very specific explanation. These would do it. — Mr Meri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u44	Thank you, Mr President. It's all right with me, anyway. Good speeches. Ronkainen, the representative of the Finns Party, pointed out that it will be done and then corrected later, and this spirit has now been a little, for example, in the preparation of the war, that it has been found that it will then be corrected later. There may be irrevocable things, there may be such disqualifications that are very difficult to correct. However, people are forced to live by its existing legislation and to take decisions accordingly. Representative Niikko of the Finns Party also raised the issue of time and urgency, and it has touched on a number of issues here. As I said in my previous speech, it has been very worrying. We would rather have good and precise legislation, and this is also a basic requirement. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also requires, when we are asked for statements, that legislation should be precise and precise and that people should be aware of their legal security and obligations. It cannot be thought that people do not know what they should do and then we would appeal to the legislator to do so. However, the legislator — whoever it means now, whether it is a parliament, a ministry or a government in this context — is not there for the authorities and the public to tell these different interpretations, and whether it is now even the same interpretation. Let me remind you, however, that this opinion of the Constitutional Committee stated that this has also been difficult for experts and not just for citizens who should live with them in everyday life. And, obviously, this objection is in force — it has been mentioned here in the past that there has been a great deal of unity in many matters and that they have been corrected in committee, but there is still a further objection, which has several signatures. But since it was now denied by no one, this obviously is not an extra paper.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u45	Mr President! First of all, I can say to Mrs Mere that there has indeed been an objection to this whole, which includes a wreck and a proposal for a statement, and it has been tabled here today at second reading, and there has also been support. So we are currently dealing with the second package of transport services in the law, and when Mr Pakkanen referred to the first package of transport services in the law and talked about taxis, I would like to emphasise very briefly at this stage, because this legislation has already been adopted and voted on in this Chamber and in Parliament: we made a proposal for a change of section 28 from the opposition to that first package, we lost them all, and at the same time we are destroying the world's best taxi system in Finland on 1 July 2018. Period. As far as this second reading is concerned, it has been said here in several speeches that digitalisation is an opportunity and there has been a lot of talk of criticism by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about this legislation, and I would now also like to raise two or three concerns of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy drew attention, for example, to this pro-regulation, which this second package of laws brought to the attention of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. That's not a little bit of an observation either. In addition, the Economic Committee drew attention to ‘the lack of clarity of the provision in relation to legal uncertainty, And the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy continued, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u46	Mr President! I myself would have drawn attention to the fact that I heard from that board of directors interpretations of the SDP's position on this first issue and the taxi issue. Mr Taimela very well said that we have been appalled by the fact that the best taxi system in the world is being driven down. There were 28 of our own amendments, and unfortunately we lost them, because the feedback that comes from those taxis too is quite crushing. There's a real big worry about what's been done. With regard to the second package today and to this situation, Mr President, I think it has become very clear that this is a typical case in which people are trying to move quickly, regardless of what law is in substance. We cannot fail to agree on this social package, which we have at the moment, because there is the same spirit there, that a huge entity is justified by urgency and authority — authority. This is an issue of prestige that is forced to do this and this kind of system. Not only is it certainly functionally problematic in many respects and the law is big and difficult and too quickly it should not be dealt with, but also in substance it is the biggest misshoot in history, as has been said here. The package, which is in the middle of a mess, will crush the entire current health system, will disparate it, will increase costs, and everything will have to be carried forward by the people here in Parliament. In other words, this is a worrying whole of what is currently happening in Finnish politics, if I may say so, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u47	Mr President! When a law is passed here, even though it is done according to all the basic rules carefully and all aspects are sought to understand and write into the law, practice only shows whether the law works as desired and, if not, for what reason possibly. We've been talking about taxi traffic. Once this reform is in force, we will see whether it works or not and what we may need to correct. It's almost certain that sooner or later something will be fixed. It's stupid if you see a mistake and you don't fix it. It is, of course, a good idea to try to make sustainable legislation, but then the legislation must be adapted to the circumstances. On the transport side, I would like to mention, for example, how the Finnish legislator did not accept that there was a brake light in the rear wind of cars, in the rear glass. For a long time, however, people put them on because they felt that it would improve their own safety, that they were not so easily run over in a braking situation. Later it was changed, but it took quite a number of years before it was changed. The same was true of the daytime lights. A bigger mistake may have been made in allowing so-called mopeds, and perhaps in society it would also be worth considering that many other countries are allowed to turn to the right against red lights, provided that the road is free and the moving vehicle stops. It saves idle and saves CO2 emissions. The legislator should be quite sensitive to change what he has once done, and the principle that I once did and there is no need to touch or correct anything ever again is, in my opinion, basically an impossible equation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u48	Mr President! Let it become clear once again that the law on transport services is not unconstitutional. No, it's not. The criticism relates only to articles, language and structure. Together with the minister and the representatives of the preparatory minister, we have given the signal and the message that, if these articles and structures are not done in this second stage, as has not been done, it will be done in the third stage. But, in principle, no laws that have already been adopted in Parliament in Phase One and now in Phase Two will not be opened and will not be re-examined. If anyone has the impression that these are going through again, maritime transport, road transport, air transport, rail transport, such as professional qualifications, they are not going to happen. Now they are going through them, and if there are any criticisms and amendments with these basic points, then now those presentations must be made. This train is now moving forward at this stage, and the Ministry is well aware that the articles and structures, that is, this technology in this law and its presentation, must then be in place in the third stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u49	Mr President! I will come back to the debate on this legislation and whether the text is clear and understandable. In my opinion, the text of the law is almost never clearly understandable, which means that it requires a great deal of familiarity with the sector itself. Then again, if you think about this second law on transport services and the one that works in transport, you can reasonably understand this when you know what this is all about. It is true that the text should be in plain language, but, as Mr Lehti said, a legislative act such that it would be so complete that it never needs to be changed will probably be unrealistic, because it is usually sitting here and considering changes to the existing law that are already in place, as is being improved, clarified, made more flexible, streamlined. That is very much what this is all about. Representative The magazine also took a good example of how Finnish legislation is slowly changing. This rear light issue is a good example of the desire to improve road safety, to increase visibility. There has been a huge amount of good visibility from the brake lights, but at the same time we have legislation that allows the normal rear end of the car not to be lit in the back. In practice, it is their job to take into account the car above that the one behind sees that the motor vehicle goes ahead, there the taillights burn. This is contradictory and it is perhaps always a matter of opinion, if you could say so. In my opinion, even in the daytime it will increase road safety if the normal headlights of the car burn back there. What it saves energy is a very marginal question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u50	Mr President! Indeed, as Mr Lehti said very well, it is often very difficult to get reform through, it is difficult to follow time. In Sweden, for example, you can use much more efficient headlights, especially in northern conditions. I myself have already made a proposal in 2003 to turn right the red lights in Finland without disturbing traffic and road safety, as is the case in the United States and many other countries. I am not going to sprinkle ashes on me if we are brought up in the ministry with such articles that may be difficult for some to understand. We did our best in committee to make this right, and I really hope that, at the latest, in stage three, these things will be corrected. What is the main point here, however, is that the issue of digitalisation and these common flag issues should make progress. We have all been critical enough here, but this is the timetable, and at the latest this section will be corrected in Stage 3. There is no other constitutional obstacle here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u51	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u52	Mr President! The Finnish Meteorological Institute is doing a very important job in terms of internal security, special situations, meteorological services, university cooperation, climate research, including this global warming study, warns about natural disasters and provides weather services for transport modes, even space activities and co-financed research projects and radiation safety issues, including Defence Forces services and development cooperation and internal security services. In this respect, this law is of course important, indeed, in order to place emphasis on security-related tasks, and above all internationalism and the strong representation of Finland are also involved in this. After all, the Finnish Meteorological Institute receives 63% of funding from the State and also EU funding. It has been suggested by the competition authorities that should be incorporated into this, but in this sense the will mode has nevertheless been in the committee that we do not start to enter into such an institution, which does so much of the authority type of activity. Not everything needs to be incorporated, even though these incorporations have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u53	Mr. Speaker! As is well known, the Finnish Meteorological Institute is also an internationally highly valued service and research institute that produces observation and research data for the needs of all sectors of public administration, industry and citizens. Perhaps a little less aware of the fact that the Finnish Meteorological Institute also plays an important role in the security of society, as Mr Alatalo has just mentioned, and also plays a key role in providing information on climate change preparedness. Mr President! I agree with the committee's position and I welcome the fact that the legislation on the Meteorological Institute is being reformed to meet the regulatory requirements resulting from the current constitution and changes in the operating environment and that the current regulation is being clarified. It is also noteworthy that although the majority of the funding of the Finnish Meteorological Institute comes from the state budget, approximately 60 per cent of its research and development activities were covered by funding outside the state budget, i.e. the Meteorological Institute’s own funding and networking in research and development activities has been successful in many respects. So, in terms of funding, research and development activities have been quite successful, but I agree with the clear position of the committee and believe that the activities and tasks of the Meteorological Institute are so important that the adequacy of its resources must continue to be ensured. In practice, the line taken by the committee should mean that, while the institution is encouraged to raise its own funds, the State will continue to assume last-minute responsibility for the financing of the institution, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u54	Mr President! The Act on the Finnish Meteorological Institute updates the activities of the Finnish Meteorological Institute to the 21st century. This is a change in the role and funding of the organisation, the institution, and this has been supported by all the experts and members of the committee that have been before us. The role of the Finnish Meteorological Institute is really big in our society and also internationally. Free and open data is available to all of us and can be used in research, even in everyday life – the weather and climate are usually spoken of among neighbors. In addition, I would like to place great emphasis on the fact that Finland is the Arctic Council Presidency for two years now and that we have special emphasis on Arctic expertise: cold knowledge, energy efficiency, space technology and so on. On behalf of our weather-monitoring weapons, we are also at the top of the world in the satellite system when it comes to research and the collection of information in the matters of the Meteorological Institute. Today, the Arctic region is facing very high expectations both economically, with high investment and with all the resources available in that Arctic region. It may be that one day we will also build the Arctic Ocean connection in Finland, but the North-East Passage is the one where this navigational information service, especially as produced by the Finnish Meteorological Institute, could help to reduce accidents internationally, but also make use of that future maritime route that we may have. Then there is a north-east corridor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u55	Mr President! The Finnish Meteorological Institute is indeed doing important research for Finnish society and for all of us Finns, both private individuals and businesses and industry. The Meteorological Institute also provides comfort services, and that is one thing, which is of course of interest to the taxpayer. It’s really nice to watch where the showers surprise you on holiday, or so in the spring, where there are good ski weathers, and as a result you can organize your own life. This is a good so-called free service for taxpayers. There are no free lunches, but this is the case. The Finnish Meteorological Institute also offers technical companies a good opportunity to develop. We have a lot of well-known industry in terms of air quality measurement, wind measurement and this type of technology. This is important like that. But the Finnish Meteorological Institute is particularly important for the Defence Forces, the defence industry. In fact, I think it is important that the Finnish Meteorological Institute also supports the work of safety and international affairs in the field of transport. On Friday, I may have made a little humorous speech on the same subject, but its message was how important it is to observe the various things that are happening in the weather and in the world around us, and in it the Meteorological Institute provides research and real information that can be compared and considered reliable information, and this can be used to monitor the development of different things. That is why I consider it important that it is not possible to enter into a company, but that the Finnish Meteorological Institute continues as it is now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u56	Mr President! I agree with all the assessments and opinions that have been expressed here about the importance, importance of the Finnish Meteorological Institute, the data it produces, the expertise, the services we get from it. And it is certainly worth noting the role of the Finnish Meteorological Institute as a kind of forerunner of open data and all this good. But I actually asked for this speech because I too remembered that we were in the middle of this debate last Friday, in which I myself took part. In today's debate, let us say the important thing that also relates to this committee report and, overall, to the position of the whole Parliament with regard to this Meteorological Institute, which is that this does not mean that the Meteorological Institute should be incorporated. Here on Friday, for example, Mr Alatalo and now Mr Pakkanen — and Mr Alatalo today — said that the Meteorological Institute is doing such an important job, so important social work that it is not to be incorporated. This is a good sentence — now, especially for the government parties. It has sometimes been a little horrified by the way things have been going during this term of government as a whole, in terms of the feeling that many important players should be incorporated into the company. What else was going on there in the war, other than the idea of forced-to-companion by the government, in fact, with regard to many things that are important to society? It is a positive and good and important thing that it is also stated here by the government parties that there will be no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This in itself is a change of direction from the government parties to the current ideology, but it is a good thing because it is a good and welcome change in line in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u57	Mr President! This is the very point where the government has its head in the game. It is a pleasure to note that, in committee, those who hear as much as we listen, we agreed on the kind of report to be made on this. And in that sense it is wonderful that there was such a deep understanding of this line. With its higher profile, the Competition and Consumer Protection Office offered a little chance of being incorporated and what it would be. It must have been the case that M.K. and E.K. had similar views that it could have been thought at this stage of preparation that this would not work in such a form as it is at present. Fortunately, however, the government's proposal and the committee's unanimous consultation of experts led to the conclusion that this was not really a serious reflection. This is a socially important product and producer. How much does this involve for us to have marine research — well, fortunately, when the ship is being repaired, it is being repaired in Rauma. In that way, even the hundred people are pleased that when things are done, then they are done properly, these repairs and changes are done at a hundred yards. But really, I mean it. The next item on the agenda is the citizens' initiative on air transport, and the Meteorological Institute is also an important factor in that sector. It is known that we have industries that actively follow it, for example the rural economy is highly dependent on the Meteorological Institute and makes decisions on the basis of its forecast.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u58	Mr President! It is very pleasant to listen now to this one-sided debate on the need and status of the Meteorological Institute. The facility is indeed an important research and service facility. It also plays an important role in the security of society as a whole. It does not need to be incorporated in any way, but must be maintained. Both business, business and each of us can and can also use the services of the Finnish Meteorological Institute almost daily. It also provides us with a great deal of information on possible future changes in the weather, and I will at least use these services myself. It is very good that the data is open today and that more and more open data are going into open data elsewhere. It is very good that the law on the Finnish Meteorological Institute is now being reformed to fit and operate in the current operating environment. This will clarify the existing regulation and support the implementation of the tasks of the institution in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u59	Mr President! Perhaps I myself am a little more pragmatic about this issue of incorporation in that sense, if we are talking about financing transport, for example. I was in Luzern at the international transport conference, and quite a lot of so-called road and rail companies have been formed in Central Europe and in Europe as a whole, carrying out a certain section of the road, and then money has been made available from the European Investment Bank, and there is the source of revenue — that is, the source of this revenue flow — for example, charges, tolls or freight charges. In that sense, even if the Ministry of Finance gets that money cheaper, many projects would be carried out more quickly if we incorporated certain road projects. But as far as this Meteorological Institute is concerned, in this case, companying could prevent the institution from producing independent and high-quality research data for as wide a customer as it is at the moment, because then you would have to charge for such services, which are nevertheless important to all the actors in society. Corporateisation would also have implications for the conditions for new business being created on the basis of the data and services produced by the Finnish Meteorological Institute. After all, we are constantly increasing all this monitoring of the weather, and we must be able to anticipate, even the electricity companies, which is the weather and what is the damage, if any. Tykkylum has been, for example, this kind of one thing that has produced a lot of problems. In that sense, I would again, as has been the case with the government's proposal, keep the Meteorological Institute outside of this incorporation. — Thank you to the opposition for your thanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u60	Mr President! It is nice to see that the legislative work is also of high quality and good quality, and that is something to be commended for. It is wonderful that we have such an actor as the Finnish Meteorological Institute, and in this debate and already last Friday, when we started this debate, it has become clear that we have an exceptional amount of work and space for such an actor. The research that the Finnish Meteorological Institute is doing is also highly valued and of a high standard worldwide, and then there is this Arctic expertise in which we have much to offer, but also much to gain through this type of research, and then it is extremely sensible and important that we are involved in this research and that this is the type of actor that the Finnish Meteorological Institute is. But, as I said in my debut speech on Friday, I personally hope that the Finnish Meteorological Institute will also look for different cooperation models, both globally, internationally and in Finland, with different actors. We also have a high level of expertise in this sector on the private side, and it is good to combine this expertise with the Finnish Meteorological Institute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u61	Mr President! Corporateization is a pragmatic issue. I have no ideological point of view for or against, but it is always worth moving forward on a situation-by-case basis. The Finnish Meteorological Institute is doing important work, and if it is extended beyond Finland’s borders, it will be against development cooperation, for example. With climate change, food production in many countries is changing, and it is increasingly important that microclimates and long-term predictions fit as well as possible. It is worth taking this more closely into development aid. Another aspect relates to education, education exports and then, of course, Finnish research, knowledge and business. Let's now take such companies, such as Vaisala. Then, in connection with the incorporation, as a Tampereman to Alatalo, you should think very carefully about, for example, this artificial groundwater company, whether it should be used to bully local communities, Pälkänttä, Kangasala, or, in this case, to stop the whole company and return to normal water production.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u62	And Mr. Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u63	Mr President! I was inspired by what Mr Heinonen said. The Finnish Meteorological Institute is already enjoying the fruits of EU funding for these joint projects, i.e. the Finnish Meteorological Institute is an internationally connected operator. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u64	Mr President! I cannot briefly agree with all the positive comments that have been made about the Meteorological Institute. When we here talk a lot about the importance of research, we need both universities and certain state research institutes. They're both there for each other. The Finnish Meteorological Institute shows how good research is carried out there on the one hand, and in many ways, on the other hand, support is given to the state in its tasks and, on the other hand, to the business community. The evidence of the high importance and appreciation of the study — I do not know whether it was said here — is that the former Director General of the Meteorological Institute is the Director General of the World Meteorological Organisation in Geneva today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u65	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 4/2018 vp. The committee proposes that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u66	Mr President! So this is a citizens' initiative on the use of Malmi Airport and so on. We have been dealing with this citizens' initiative for a long time, and one could say so, and we have also used the expertise that has been accumulated around the committee's table for some years and many things. We are, therefore, a special committee which is familiar with transport and communication issues and we have had a number of glimpses of the future on a number of points. The future picture of aviation, transport and mobility in the future is certainly best known to us from the whole of Parliament. I have not checked this with everyone, so I cannot say with a deep chest voice, but I claim that at least the majority of our committee members are friends of Malmi based on these facts. On this basis, the matter was discussed. After the report was completed, there was some feedback as to why this aspect of culture, cultural heritage and these values have not been dealt with in this report in a word. In practice, it is because we decided to make a report as concise as possible and based on the essentials, which will then reflect this vision of the future and, among other things, the need for a field such as Malmi in the future, in our view. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealt with this same issue, and although some interpretations have been such that it does not require much in favour of the Constitution, it must have made a fairly straightforward point of view, because there are many such points where alternatives are given, how the matter can be resolved, and if it is resolved in some way, then it must be justified and resolved by the constitutional problems that it contains, among other things, with regard to the autonomy of the municipalities. In short, I will go through this brief, concise report. It actually states for 20 years — some say longer, others say shorter — that there has been a continuing discussion and consultation between the various authorities and activities of the state and the City of Helsinki, which has come to the conclusion that, in the end, Helsinki has planned this airport as a residential area. Indeed, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that it would not be a very easy solution if something were to be done differently at this stage. And after that I really underline that if something were to be done differently, then there should also be a justification for it. However, following this introduction to the grounds for rejection, the committee notes that the field of Malmi is of great importance at the moment for business flights, amateur aviation, security of supply, aviation education and so on, and it is stated unequivocally and unanimously that, in view of future, evolving intelligent transport and the new needs it creates, Malmi Airport is most likely to serve Finns and Helsinki as a platform for this kind of activity. In the same breath we also note that such similar needs must be found in the neighborhood. That need is obvious. And it is also noted that if activities have to be completely discontinued, they may be substantially more difficult to restart. [Parliament : Impossible! ] However, given the importance of future modes of transport, mobility and mobility, we then made a proposal for a statement, and it reads: ‘The Council of State requires that measures be taken to ensure the safety of the airfield functions which arereplaced,so that the aviation activities of Malmi Airport can continue at the end of good links and distances. “ A lot of air — fortunately there is air in aviation — but I would stress that we are talking about a statement about airport operations, aviation activities, not just a field.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u67	Madam President! It is good that this strange and very unfortunate decision by the City of Helsinki to end Malmi has been brought here by a citizens' initiative for discussion. Although it is formally a matter of the City of Helsinki, it certainly has a national dimension, it is a question of the airport of the capital, which is of great historical value and importance at national level for small-scale air traffic in the capital. Although it is theoretically possible for Parliament to react in some way, and there are legal aspects to this initiative, it is clear that Parliament cannot really decide at this stage anything other than what the committee is proposing. Nevertheless, I would like to make a brief comment on this matter. I do not like to use a very strong political language about this toilet, but I think that the activities of the Helsinki Coalition Party and the Green Left in this area have been very strange and quite unscrupulous. I would therefore refer to three aspects: The first is that Malmi is a significant green and recreational area, and I do not understand the city's line that green areas that are important to the health and comfort of residents are constantly being destroyed in the city. In addition to Malmi, Central Park and several other green areas are at risk. Before the municipal elections, the parties put candidates in the panels, all of whom said they were in favour of Malmi and the green areas, but the council is being overrun differently. Secondly, the area of Malmi Airport is such a boulder that it is difficult to build on it and is very expensive. And as far as housing construction is concerned, the wasteland for construction is found and higher houses are built. In any case, a great deal must be put on the comfort and health of the inhabitants. The third, and not least, is growing small-scale air transport. Helsinki is rightly being developed into a modern European capital. It certainly includes developing and diverse small-scale air transport and other aviation activities, the city airport. We see, for example, the development of Bromma and London City Airport in Stockholm. If Malmi is destroyed, where is the new city airport to Helsinki? And most of all, why start hard and expensive looking for and building new ones when we have Malmi ready? As I said, at this stage the Parliament may not be able to decide, but one can only hope that the City of Helsinki will still take its senses and cancel its absurd Malmi decision. At the same time, the committee's proposal is a good one, and I hope that the government will be able to act — if not for Helsinki's sake, with regard to Malmi, in order to safeguard small aviation in the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u68	Let us go to the list of speakers for a few words, and then if there is any further pressure on the debate, it can be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u69	Mr President! Parliament now has the opportunity to do something particularly sensible for a change and to prevent the destruction of Malmi's historic, functional and necessary airport. I guarantee that if this Parliament is able to save Malmi, it will be in history. It doesn't go down in the history of any trunk gates or other more unusual patterns. That's for sure. In my opinion, taking out the only working small airport in the capital region on the terms of a few grynders is such an act in its stupidity that it should actually be erected a monument of some kind, and I hope that if this monument is justified, it will have the names of all those who have been destroying that field, because it is good to go there and then see what Daddy did or Mom did, that's a great thing. The EU has taken a stand in favour of the preservation of urban and general aviation airports in a resolution of the European Parliament. Sometimes there are even sensible resolutions. On 3 February 2009, it was found that general and business aviation are the fastest growing sectors of civil aviation in Europe and complement regular air transport by commercial airlines, thus providing specific social and economic benefits, such as increased mobility of citizens, business productivity and territorial cohesion. In other words, the adequacy of airport capacity is a strategic concern for the EU. Within a 150 km radius of Helsinki, there is no international airport serving light air traffic on a free schedule other than Helsinki-Malmi. For decades there have been commercial and charter flights, international flights. In recent years, growth rates have been between 9% and 14% per year. Which means it's not a complete waste of time. Aviation is of considerable importance to the national economy: it currently employs, indirectly or directly, more than 100,000 people, direct taxes paid to the state by the aviation industry amounting to 2.5 billion, while air transport accounts for approximately 3.2 per cent of Finland's GDP. Malmi has played an important role in flight training, maintenance, all kinds of aviation activities and should continue to do so. Eurocontrol, the European Organisation for the Planning and Development of Air Navigation, has produced a forecast for growth in commercial air traffic, which suggests that traffic volumes in Finland and neighbouring regions will increase by between 30% and 70% between 2012 and 2035, up to 2 to 3 times in the European area by 2050, which means that there may be a need for airports. And in recent years the growth rate of business flights has been around 3% per year in Europe, up to 7% before the recession. These are a few years old figures, so at the moment we're probably going back to high readings. In 2015, the number of passengers at London City Airport increased by 18 per cent, the airport is being expanded. In Stockholm, in December, Parliament decided to close the study on the introduction of Bromma's old city airport for housing purposes, with investments of tens of millions of euros in business aviation services. At the same time, we are here to destroy Malmi Airport — no sense at all. Flexible accessibility is a competitive factor in both business and other business environments. The long-term growth trend in the volume of commercial flights will not only bring pure traffic but also open up opportunities for new types of air traffic services concepts, i.e. jobs will be created. The international growth trend in commercial flights increases the amount of money spent on business flying. This will open up more attractiveness and opportunities for new business operators and services — in the best case scenario, by taking on a Finnish operator from a suitable airport for domestic business flights, such as Malmi. The maintenance of security of supply under the new circumstances would be clearly threatened. Maintaining the Helsinki-Malmi aerodrome in aviation use improves the security of supply in the Helsinki region, which is obvious. The aerodrome can serve as a reserve field for some of the equipment operating at Helsinki Airport. For example, in 1986, when there was an official strike, domestic route traffic was handled quite far from there. Keeping the airport in aviation use supports Section 12 of the Emergency Act This is the duty of preparedness. Then we come to this cultural historical issue. Malmi Airport is a nationally significant cultural historical destination, and Malmi Airport, built in the 1930s, is also listed at European level as one of the seven most endangered cultural heritage sites. It's strange how to protect some doorknobs and God knows what kind of footboards, but when you have such a whole, then you let it go because you get a few blocks of flats for some potential people who move there — who could move anywhere else. In other words, Malmi remains one of the world's best preserved international airports of that age and a cultural heritage site in commercial aviation. In September 2017, the National Board of Antiquities strongly advocated the protection of Malmi Airport with the Building Heritage Act. It has also submitted Malmi Airport for submission to the UNESCO World Heritage Programme as part of a respected functional architecture. Anyone who's been there understands that it's something completely unique. There's a historical point: The importance of the airport for our history is quite significant in terms of preparation for the Olympic Games in 40 C.E., the military years of air defence, the Helsinki Olympics in 52 C.E. and the development of general aviation as a whole. Malmi Airport continued as a general aviation field and has been its absolute centre throughout the country until now and remains. It has been selected on the World Monuments Fund list, with such architectural markers. In 2016, Europa Nostra has identified the airport as one of the seven most endangered cultural heritage sites in Europe and so on. And as has already been mentioned here, there are also considerable natural values in the field and it is very much used by the locals for outdoor activities. It's a nice place to stay — I know it's Helsinki, I live a few miles from the airport. A strong public opinion is in favour of the adoption of the law proposed in the initiative. For over a decade, residents of Helsinki and environmental municipalities have been asked about this matter in various opinion polls, and the results of almost all polls are the same: the support for the maintenance of the airport has almost invariably been more than twice as much as the support for housing construction in the airport. Maintaining the Helsinki-Malmi aerodrome in aviation use is clearly and across party boundaries the will of the citizens. We are in Parliament, and perhaps it would be good to follow these citizens' wills at times and not just some other thing. Mr President! I propose that a legislative proposal under the citizens' initiative be taken as the basis for this discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u70	Looks like we're looking for a debut. Let's take a short debatation round here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u71	Madam President! I would now like to turn the corner to this debate that I remember well when the matter was discussed before the last municipal elections. Then, for example, the main government party centre promised that this field of Malmi would be preserved. The Prime Minister took a strong stand for it. At the time, we had little doubt as to whether these were the undertones of the municipal elections or whether this was actually true. So I would now like to emphasise and say that it is precisely in this matter that the position of the government is at issue. We need to know whether there is any empty talk here on behalf of this field or whether the government clearly states whether the state needs this field, whether the government intends to make a decision that Malmi Airport is needed for the operations of the kingdom, and whether it is ready to invest in it. That, President, is what we are really talking about when we talk about the fate of this field. I also remember a contradictory message that we asked about a few times in this Chamber. So, at the same time that promises came from Prime Minister level on behalf of the field, for example, the Minister Mr Mykkänen again took the exact opposite position against the retention of the field and said,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u72	Mr President! Mr Viitanen asked about the government's position. It's kind of like you'd ask yourself because a decision has been made last season. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u73	Madam President! I've been a friend of Malmi Airport, and that's why I'm upset about this fate. Bromma, for example, is very important for the Stockholm region and business flights are increasing. But, indeed, this citizens' initiative has been dealt with properly. We, in the Committee on Transport, relied on the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, which stated that it was difficult to leave Parliament to make dictators in the Malmi field owned by the City of Helsinki. We had to raise our hands here on this citizens' initiative. Helsinki now has a ball on Malmi, and this was what we were able to do in the Transport Committee. There is now our pontice, which talks about compensatory airport operations and securing them. That is not very strongly said, but in any case this was done. Nothing is sacred when it comes to the interests of the Grynders. The green Left wants to destroy culturally important areas, as we would like to destroy the South Park, for example. This is a very serious accident. That is what we now have to do, and I am really sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u74	Madam President! The fate and deliberate resolution of Malmi Airport and, in particular, the role of my own home city, Helsinki, in this matter has been very sad to follow. As has already been heard, a strong public opinion is in favour of maintaining Malmi Airport in aviation use, and it is extremely regrettable that this public opinion has not been heard or, at least, taken seriously. It has also been made clear in several speeches and it is clear that the importance of aviation will not be diminishing in the future, but vice versa. It is madness to destroy a functioning and valuable field that could be developed in the future. Unfortunately, once destroyed, you can't get it back. I do not know whether such a debate is worth it, but I would support the motion put forward by Mr Raatikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u75	In the actual speech, there must be statements of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u76	Madam President! If I could at all, I too would be in favour of the motion made by Mr Raatikainen in this debate. Therefore, although it is just a decision of the City of Helsinki itself, it must be remembered that this is nevertheless very important at national level. This is a very important decision for the whole country, which is now being made, to sacrifice an entire airport to a few blocks of flats. When you see how much air traffic has grown at European level, in Finland too, it is all in favour of maintaining this field, with tax revenue, jobs, all this and just this bromma airport in Stockholm, which would serve as a very good example for us, why not stop this airport activity at Malmi. But if, for some reason, it is decided as a foolish decision to stop, it is certain that if we have it on the Kymenlaakso side, then it will only take 45 minutes for Malmi, then we will be
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u77	Madam President! Not to belittle the parables of a few blocks of flats, but if 25,000 people are thought to dwell in that area, it may not be worth using a few blocks of flats as a symbol. [Requests for reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u78	Madam President! This issue of Malmi Airport also speaks and spoke in committee, and I also regret the decision taken by the City of Helsinki to stick firmly to such a good small field. There's a need for Kent. I myself come from Kouvola, and we have five different airports there, and the most famous of them is, of course, Ut's military field. But, as Mr. Eerola said, the nearest Kymenlaakso airport is in the Pyhä, where Malmi is about 15 minutes away. Yes, there are these nearby areas, but, as was discovered in this first speech, there are currently no such continuous flight fields, which are replacing Malmi, within a 150 km radius, and that is why there is a good point in the committee's report that the situation should be arranged in such a way that a substitute can be found. There is one in Kymenlaakso.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u79	Madam President! Of course, it is a big shame for a former, or indeed modern, aviation enthusiast and a former pilot to see the airport stopped. There are many things about Malmi Airport that were raised in previous speeches, even with an emotional appeal. It's all right, but there's something about the fact that the MPs in the government parties are out of control now in such a bath water that they haven't seen each other for a while. We have received the committee's report, the unanimous report, and there seems to be a unanimous report on the opposition side, at least Mr Ronkainen, the representative of the Finns Party, has been working on it. Mr Ronkainen will be fine, but from the same group Mr Raatikainen will not, and I do not know how many days. However, I would have liked those parties that have been or are still in the government since 2015 to have taken measures to preserve Malmi Airport. For example, the border guard office has been transferred to Helsinki Airport, where millions of investments have been made. This way, when the investments run away from Malmi, the field
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u80	Madam President! The Christian Democrats do not have a representative in the Committee on Transport and Communications. In that sense, we have not been able to influence the position of this committee in committee, nor have we been able to make a statement. But the Christian Democrats have defended the preservation of Malmi Airport in aviation use. It has been our position in both the Helsinki Council and in Uusimaa. There are no dividing lines here within the party, but we really unanimously see the need for this field. It would also be important to understand that if the decision to continue using this airport for air use should not mean that some housing could not be built in the area — this has come to light in these surveys that have been carried out — but certainly not in quantities, massive quantities, which are now being driven by the grynders to drive down this entire Malmi Airport. It is also important for Christian Democrats to train missionaries at Malmi Airport, so this help that can be given around the world is not
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u81	Mr President! I've been allowed to fly from Lappeenranta Airport to Malmi Airport. Yes, the fact is that Malmi Airport is a major hub for general aviation and private aviation training. It also has measures to support national aviation safety. In practice, however, the fact is that even before the current government, decisions have been taken on Malmi. It's practically that fact. As far as I am concerned, this report by the Committee on Transport and Communications is a good basis. In particular, this statement that ‘the Board of State requires that measures be taken to ensure the replacement of airfield functions,in order to enable the aviation activities of But, above all, to Mr Raatikainen's speech, I would like to stress that I personally hope that the decision-makers in Helsinki will now also be able to leave to secure the operation of Malmi Airport, if that is what they want here in Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u82	Madam President! Just like this for Mrs Myllykallio: I may have mentioned a few blocks of flats, but the situation is that if you look at the area that Helsinki was, in a way, hijacking from Sipoo a few years ago, you could fit a little more of those blocks of flats. Nothing's been done in there. Now, however, all of a sudden, we need this area of Malmi for these houses. I won't go into any more Helsinki zoning or municipal politics, but this is the case. So let's do something to figure something else out, get some excuse, and get on this road. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u83	Madam President! I would like to remind you that this citizens' initiative was before us in the Committee on Transport and Communications. In our proposal for a decision, we unanimously took a position in the Committee on Budgets on the rejection of the citizens' initiative, but we were equally strongly required that the Government take measures to ensure that compensatory airport operations are maintained so that aviation activities at Malmi Airport can continue to operate at good connections and distances — all because, among other things, it is important that leisure aviation and business operations continue to be made possible, and what is important, including consideration of security of supply. It's all really relevant here. Then, if we look at the issue of this citizens' initiative in our committee, we have also received information from the Ministry during the committee reading that these alternative fields are:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u84	Mr President! Congressman Myllykallio is on the hook, but that doesn't matter. For it sounds rather harsh when the water is softer than that rock. Depends on the height of the drop. If we drop the plane, it doesn't matter. But I have to say that I do not want to get involved in the city's own decision-making, but I would see that these activities have already been transferred to Helsinki Airport, as Mr Kari said, but then also to Santahamina. That question must, of course, be made clear that air traffic management systems in these provinces must be secured in such a way that they will continue to be managed seamlessly and seamlessly in the future. In that sense, how many houses or terraced houses or blocks of flats — I do believe that the City of Helsinki has not suddenly come up with this idea, that council has obviously voted on this a few times over the years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u85	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u86	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! There has been a lot of discussion recently about whose role the MPs should be in Parliament. In my opinion, it is the job of a Member of Parliament to promote the interests of Finland as a whole in all situations, and that is what I think is at issue in the case of Malmi Airport. Personally, I am somewhat surprised at a debate that suggests that this is only a matter for the City of Helsinki. In my opinion, this is much bigger than just the city of Helsinki. Something about the importance and importance of this citizens' initiative is that, as far as I know, this is the only citizens' initiative — well, perhaps there was one in the past — whose debate was attended by the Prime Minister himself. Prime Minister Juha Sipilä took part in the debate on the referral of this citizens' initiative, and the Centre said that they even have a group decision to support Malmi's continuation. I still remember this debate, and I know that the city of Helsinki and the solutions made by the city play a crucial role in this issue, but that the right solution is found to this, how Malmi can continue, the Finnish State and the government of our country also play an important role. [Department:Why statement? ] I myself am somewhat surprised that this debate continues to highlight the fact that there might be a replacement. Malmi Airport cannot be replaced in Finland except in the Viking region. We can't find a replacement airport 50 miles away. In my municipality of residence, Lope has an airport in Räyskälä. Someone's told me why you're defending Malmi Airport, you're getting those functions in Blinkylä. Well, we can't. You can't get these functions just a touch of something. But most of these activities are just like Mr Puska in his own good, well-balanced, long-lived speech, that is, the kind of activities that must be in the middle of the city as close as possible. Two weeks ago I had just had a conversation with one of Malmi's active pilots, and he said that a very typical user is the type that comes to Helsinki Airport or Helsinki Airport, from there to Malmi Airport, from there to a smaller plane goes to Lappeenranta, Vaasa, comes back, immediately to its home country. These are quite often such persons that it would be worthwhile for all Finns to follow their money bags or zero credit card numbers. They do big business, big business, which would benefit the entire Finnish society. Mr President! Finland is making an irreversible mistake. In fact, the new aviation technology in the world is restoring to active use such Malmi-type airports, which are surrounded by urban structures, and the so-called city airports, which have already been banned, have been re-introduced throughout the world. Stockholm has been on the agenda here. A solution has been made to reopen the Bromma field, which is in the middle of an early closure, and the rapid positive development there is an excellent example of what the world is going to do at the moment. That is why I am concerned about what is now being done in Helsinki and Finland with regard to Malmi. In fact, I do not see any reasonable reason why the only airport in Helsinki is actually wanted to end. Of course, Helsinki Airport's international scheduled airport would continue to operate, but after the end of Malmi, the city would be the only city in its size class without a city airport such as Malmi. Malmi Airport has provided more than one million people with light traffic to Greater Helsinki, an international airport for active recreation and hobbies, a place for aviation events and an opportunity to train for aviation professions. Malmi Airport, 10 km from the city centre, has also served the Border Guard, Rescue Department, Air Force and Police — and this would continue to be the case if it were understood in Finland. Mr President! Thus, the citizens' initiative would maintain the Helsinki-Malmi aerodrome as a whole that would allow commercial and non-commercial civil aviation and would be developed in relation to the associated activities of the aerodrome and the values of the aerodrome's cultural environment. It would also be possible to use the area for government aviation and for military aviation. The law would therefore also provide for ownership of immovable property and special rights insofar as they are connected to the Helsinki-Malmi aerodrome. So I do not think there is any reasonable reason to stop. Discontinuation is justified when I listened to the Helsinki Council debate, because there is a shortage of construction ground in Helsinki. It is certainly partly true, but I have visited Helsinki-Malmi Airport from the top, and you can also see it from Helsinki-Vantaa Airport by getting up by plane that there is a building site. In fact, this housing production planned for Malmi is very easy to solve, and in fact this debate, which the Prime Minister promised to have with Mayor Vapaavuori, would be essential. This model would have been the one where about half of the 25,000 people's housing production would have been carried out in the periphery of Malmi Airport. The field would remain in this model, and then we will come to what is needed for the government and parliament of our country. That remaining part of the field would be redeemed by the transfer of state ownership. In other words, the City of Helsinki would get the 25 000 people it wants from within Helsinki in this way. Which means that Earth Change would be the solution that works. Thus, half of the housing production planned for Malmi Airport would be carried out in the area itself and the airport would remain in place, and the State would therefore acquire ownership of the airport by means of a change of land. Finavia has also raised issues that strongly advocate the preservation of Malmi Airport. Their statements have raised strong arguments for the field. The Border Guard, the Rescue Department, Medi-Heli, the police, Finavia and so on have also been important players in Malmi Airport, and all their statements have been in favour of further action. Malmi Airport has been the main operating base of the Helsinki Rescue Department, for example, and it has also served doctor chopper Medi-Hel excellently. Malmi has also been a base for police choppers and so on. It has been — yes, this precarious situation has been so long that it has inevitably been necessary to relocate those activities and seek other solutions. But if we now made the right decision and Malmi continued, I am sure that a great deal of these activities would return and, in fact, there would be many new ones. We have already had the kind of aviation training that should be provided in the future in public. Mr President! Ten minutes of clock ticking fast. Last time I spoke in the referral debate, I also spoke about the value of Keidas Malmi. For example, the many species mentioned in the EU Birds Directive are nesting there, and I am therefore surprised that the Greens are ready to destroy this oasis and the valuable environment. Of course, there's no sign of them in this room right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u87	First of all, at this stage, I would like to thank all those who are behind this citizens' initiative for their great work and for making the matter public. As I said in the debate, this citizens' initiative was before us in the Committee on Transport and Communications. In our proposal for a decision in the committee of reports, we took a unanimous position on the rejection of the citizens' initiative, but we were equally strongly required that the Government take measures to secure compensatory airport operations so that these aviation activities at Malmi Airport can continue at a good distance. Why we wanted our will to be recorded so strongly is linked to the fact that Malmi Airport is a major hub for general aviation and private aviation training, whose functions also support national aviation safety. In addition to this, the airport is a significant maintenance concentration, and Malmi Airport plays a significant role in business flights, hobby aviation and security of supply. During the discussion of the citizens' initiative, we also learned that there has been and is still work on finding alternative fields. A sustainable solution must be found, also because the growth in recreational aviation is real and our security of supply requires it. In his own speech, Mr Heinonen felt that an alternative field could not be found. In committee, therefore, we unanimously had the courage to take a more positive view of this issue. As far as the continuation of these citizens' initiatives in general is concerned, I find it problematic if the legislators continue to intervene in this house and take a very strong stand on the basis of the right of citizens' initiative to decide on decisions which are subject to municipal sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u88	Mr President! In that opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I did not find it a direct obstacle for Parliament to raise important issues in individual cases. After all, Jokela’s shooting was one, which then led to legislation. But from that different conversation: There was talk that there could be alternatives and that there could be alternatives. But it must be remembered that the entire building and the area cannot be moved historically. Or is it meant to move several kilometers with some sort of catheter? Of course it's not the same. It will then be a replacement with new structures in a new place. I live in Hyvinkää, and I know that Hyvinkää and Lohja have been sorted out in due course. They haven't been suitable. Many measures are required there. I would love to take Hyvinkää if I could choose this way as a well-tailed municipal politician, but when it is not the same thing in terms of accessibility and history as that airport in Malmi. The representative, Mr Raatikainen, made a good point about the position of the Finnish people in Helsinki, i.e. he went through these many issues, and in particular the opinion of the public, which has been the same in many surveys: why not hear what the citizens want to do in the municipality. I was actually thinking that there are no Greens here, and I don't think they're coming. I warmly support Mr Raatikainen's proposal on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u89	Madam President! Let me also say that I find it a little repulsive that the representatives of the Centre Party here are now trying to clean up the laundry. If you are still bound by a group decision that is unanimous in favour of preserving Malmi, then in committee you are behind this committee's unanimous report. [Department : Reverse! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u90	Madam President! As I said, I would like to see Malmi Airport continue to operate in recreational and professional aviation. It is, of course, a big and important matter for a former pilot and aviation enthusiast, and it is a personal matter, but for the decision-maker it is not quite so easy. In this report, the committee quite rightly points out the principles of municipal self-government, and as a politician, I have little to say that the grynders are now being accused of this decision taken by the city of Helsinki, that is to say, by the decision-makers elected by the city of Helsinki. It is a bit of a way of pouring that hydrochloric acid itself on the back of the neck, on top of politicians and representative democracy. The state and the City of Helsinki have taken this issue forward together, and I personally now seem to remain in the minority on my point of view, but I also want to respect the decision-makers and actors in Helsinki who have made their own decisions in democratic order, so I am not going to bring this down on the grynders. Politicians carry what belongs to politicians. In municipal life and municipal planning, it is a very familiar expression that you can build on the neighbor’s property. It is such a almost joke-making way to express such zoning disorder. Now, however, this is a whole new phenomenon, and it is a group decision in the city centre: can you build on the property next door? If the centre, as a parliamentary party and as a parliamentary group, takes a stand on the zoning issues of another city by group decision, it has been a long time since. At least in their own municipalities, the representatives of the government are very vigorous in showing how power is exercised by the government. Why, Mrs Torniainen, why, Mr Heinonen, did the government not have the power to do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u91	Mr President! Perhaps it is good to really go over the background of this matter now: For the past 20 years, both the City of Helsinki and the State have been developing this aviation in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in the direction of centralisation of operations at Helsinki Airport. This has led to a decrease in Malmi's operations and to a partial cessation of operations. In the plan for public finances 2015-2018, the state and Helsinki agreed that when Helsinki wanted to strengthen its urban structure, it would plan Malmi for housing use and the state would transfer the functions that the state had at Malmi to Helsinki Airport or elsewhere. On this basis we have gone, and the various bodies have then taken the decisions that this matter has called for, both the City of Helsinki in its own zoning and then the state in its own decisions — which are otherwise not being proposed. Now that we are dealing with this citizens' initiative, which I am sure is justifiably aimed at maintaining the operation of Malmi Airport, Parliament cannot at this stage depart from the decision of the individual city. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that it would be possible, but certainly not unproblematic, for us to go here and champion the decision on the design of an individual city. What kind of Pandora's box would it open if every time 50,000 people, in the form of a citizen's initiative, complained about a formula decision, were to go here in the big Chamber of Parliament and then go and think about it? In other words, the City of Helsinki has had the power to do so at the time of its zoning decision, and the State has at the time when the state has announced that the functions that Malmi has had will be transferred elsewhere. If the government parties really had a desire here to secure Malmi Airport, then the government would have made decisions that would have provided the resources and resources for these actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u92	Representative Vehkaperä — absent, representative Viljanen — absent, representative Wallinheimo — absent, representative Mäkelä — absent, representative Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u93	Madam President! This is the quickest speech I have ever heard. — I would now like to continue a little bit of what I was doing in connection with the debate. First of all, of course, I would also like to thank the citizens' initiative for my part and say that the citizens' initiative in itself is always important and deserves due consideration, and I think it is an important principle here in Parliament as a whole. But here's the thing: What bothers me now is the same thing that has been raised here in the speech of many other Members. I remember so vividly the situation here in Parliament before the last municipal elections when this Malmi issue was discussed. At the time, the city centre was very strongly committed to securing Malmi Airport, its operations. It was discussed before the elections, and I remember it because I already asked if, if that is the case, whether the government is now taking concrete steps not to shift its activities away from Malmi, which it makes a decision that ‘from the perspective of the kingdom we need to continue to go to Malmi Airport’,and then decides that these activities will be maintained,returned —therefore they had already been withdrawn. That is also what we asked out loud in that situation. Well, we didn't get any answers. Now, in practice, we have received the answer that, apparently, this was an empty speech in the run-up to the elections, because it is still apparent that Prime Minister Sipilä's initiative to secure Malmi Airport has not come. That is also what was being asked here by the delegation of the Government, Mr Heinonen, and, of course, if I were to be a member of the government parties now, I would be very vigilant about what is happening and being done in the hands of the government. It is not the case that the government has no responsibility for this, because the government itself
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u94	Madam President! As far as I am concerned, I would like to express my warm thanks to the authors of this citizens' initiative that this issue has indeed come to Parliament now and has also received a referral debate. There has also been an expert consultation on this in committee, in my opinion, very well and factually, and the committee has produced a report which seems to be unanimous. My own opinion remains that Malmi Airport, the aerodrome, is very important for both general aviation and private aviation training and for all other activities, and I would like to stress that the previous government has also outlined in its own spending limits debate in 2014 that the replacement aerodrome, the airport, should be found for these activities that may be transferred from Malmi, which now seem to be moving from there. The committee's consultations have shown that there has already been a great deal of relocation, which is, of course, regrettable. In fact, I would like to stress that if the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki want Malmi to remain in air transport, it is also up to the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki to act on this issue. In fact, the Centre has in time stated that we would like Malmi's air operations to remain in Malmi,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u97	Mr President! Helsinki Malmi Airport has a long history and is an international airport for general aviation in Helsinki. It is sad to follow the fate of what is being done to it and how it is being driven down. After all, the aim of the citizens' initiative before us has been to preserve Malmi Airport in aviation use. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has estimated that it would be problematic to reconcile it with local self-government. The Committee on Transport and Communications in its report, to which reference has been made several times, does not want to interfere with the sovereignty of an individual municipality, but at the same time there must be room for replacement elsewhere. However, Malmi Airport is also an important destination in terms of cultural history. Of course, it will not be the same, although it will remain there if the air operations are transferred. But that too must, of course, be taken into account, that it will have an environment of value if the air operations move away from it. Looking west, south and towards Europe, it is surprising how little aviation in Finland means or what visibility it has in our society's activities and how much appreciation it is given. If you look at Central Europe, there's a completely different kind of respect for aviation than we do here. Aviation activities and related ancillary activities are in a very different part from those here, where it is seen only as professional traffic, unfortunately. We have a very different culture of action. Malmi is also an integral part of the aviation history of Finland, and it is part of the architectural print. It is important that we keep history of it for generations to come. It is important to note that the metropolitan area will already have a reserve field from the point of view of social crisis preparedness in the future. If you think of the capital region and Helsinki as an ever-growing city and metropolitan area, it is very unusual that there is no reserve field here. However, if Helsinki remains in its position to invest in the construction of the airport area, which I personally find extremely regrettable, we should find out where Malmi's operations could then be transferred. In this context, account must be taken of the entrepreneurs who are currently operating there, such as flight schools, who cannot be moved far but within a reasonable distance, i.e. in practice they should be close to Uusimaa. The capital region, such as Nummela or Hyvinkää, has air operations, and there could be one possibility of extending the activities there, but there are others. Of course, this requires the involvement of airports' localities in further planning and the possibility of receiving the present future of Malmi. I personally believe that these activities and aviation will be a positive boost to the area that will receive these activities in the future if Malmi Airport operations are driven down. It can also increase the attractiveness of its environment in terms of leisure opportunities and the creation of new jobs. Mr President! Malmi Airport is an area of operational importance for flight training and general aviation. From the point of view of security of supply and crisis preparedness in the metropolitan area, there is a legitimate need to maintain its functions. The continuing operations of Malmi Airport must be ensured without interruption, and a replacement place must be found as close as possible to the Uusimaa region if the operations at Malmi stop. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u98	Madam President! The citizens' initiative to preserve Malmi Airport is, in my view, a very interesting and well-founded document as such. We must remember the history of this Malmi Airport: built in 1936 and served as the main airport in this country until 1952. So the reasons why it is a valuable place in Helsinki and Finland are certainly true. In his own speech just now, representative Mia Laiho described this history very well, how important it has been to this country and what traditions it is associated with it. I know that many other constructions and changes in the use of the area have been prevented in the Finnish rural environment, on the basis of cultural heritage. In my hometown, I could list a long list when cultural heritage has been blocked. I've had to stick to what I used to be, and I haven't been able to build a new one. That's where it works, but here it doesn't work. The reason why things are like this, you have to ask someone smarter than me. However, the Constitutional Committee's opinion rightly stated that Article 121 of the Municipal Law gives municipalities a completely independent decision-making power in their own affairs, and quite rightly, the Constitutional Committee was absolutely right in this matter, and that is the case of the City of Helsinki and its onion. As far as these cultural heritages, the heritage of operations and so on are concerned, they should also be taken into account by the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki, but when I respect that local self-government more than anything in this political decision-making process, I will confine myself to saying and I hope that reason will prevail and that a solution will be found that this activity can indeed continue there. After all, the central parliamentary group has taken a position on this, that if a solution were to be found then that Malmi's operations could continue. We are not going to champion the decision-making of the City of Helsinki. It is a matter for the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki. I have noticed recently that the Mayor of Helsinki, Jan Vapaavuori, has a great deal of interest in a variety of political decision-making in society, which is mostly focused on the main category of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, but I would hope that one day it will also be able to develop its own area and increase its comfort. I understand, of course, that when the urban structure is tightened up, the comfort of living is reduced, and even in this Chamber, the grynders have become rich from it. This is precisely what it is that, when we concentrate and build those honeycombs on top of each other enough and put a terrible price on them, the inhabitants will at least not benefit. I'm sure the big builders will pick it up in the pocket of victory. That is why the house prices in this city have gone out of their minds. That is why it would be good to remember what the centre has presented here, a sensible solution, and I believe that Jan Vapaavuori, as a wise mayor, can handle this. I don't doubt his abilities at all. Besides, when this is a matter for the City of Helsinki, the initiative must come from the city side. That dance invitation is a matter for the host, not for the men. It is up to the host to play an active role here for the benefit of their own residents. However, the municipalities have undivided decision-making powers in their own affairs. It's so many times proven. Now that this tradition of citizens' initiatives has been tremendously promoted in this country, it is a good thing in itself, but the authors of these initiatives should remember that the existing laws and, in particular, the guarantees of municipal self-government laid down in the Constitution cannot be broken by this initiative. It's a much bigger clay then. Of course, initiatives must be taken, and they are respectable activities, but the fundamental rights and the conditions attached to the Constitution must always be remembered, because it is the foundation of all Finnish political activity and municipal self-government and democracy, that fundamental rights are respected. There are examples in the world that have been done differently, and the mark has been much worse. Looking at the history of Malmi Airport, it becomes a little sad that it is now likely to become a construction site, and it is also honest that it is practically impossible to find a substitute for it at that level, near the heart of the city of Helsinki. Let us take two examples: Mr Heinonen mentioned Bromma's field in Stockholm. An excellent example of the airport near the city centre, which works and, above all, brings great benefits to the city of Stockholm and Sweden thanks to its closeness. Another good example is Taipei Airport in Taiwan. A big city with 25 million inhabitants, whose airport is almost downtown. When you look at the traffic from the mountain at night when an airplane almost lands in its core center, it terrifies whether that pilot is actually right or where he lands. That's where it's going down to the airport in the center. That's where it works. So it's possible. This is just what the host wants, in this case the City of Helsinki. One more thing, Madam President: when you read the committee's proposal for a statement, it is quite right to make a statement, a unanimous statement, and it says that we must work for these possible substitutes, precisely so that a solution can be found that benefits all citizens. Although it is quite clearly a matter for the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki, the fact that Malmi Airport has played a very important national role in Finland's national history cannot be denied. The continuation of aviation activities with the same equipment as that at Malmi would be extremely important in this country. This is where the committee's proposal is very good and worthy of support and unanimity, and I hope that there will still be some sensible route in this area, respecting local self-government, which is the deepest core of Finnish democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u99	Mr President! There have been a few occasions when the situation in the countries of exchange has been raised, and, for example, since I have been somewhat familiar with this matter in the defence of Malmi Airport last season, it has not been possible to show such a country of exchange which would solve this situation. Which means we've been watching this route, too. There has indeed been a lot of talk here about the reasons for aviation, mobility and, indeed, what this committee's report is based on. So it simply makes no sense to end this. However, as I said, a Member of Parliament must also comply with the law. I am a little surprised that there do seem to be people here who do not care about the Constitution and the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The draft decision of the Constitutional Committee is thus worded as follows: ‘The Constitutional Committee shall propose that the draft law may be dealt with in the ordinary legislative order only if the constitutional provisions presented That is why the committee tried to find every possible means to do this. And this is highly justified, which is why this wreck... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u104	Madam President! I myself would like to express my warm thanks to the citizens' initiative makers. It's very valuable that this Malmi issue should be kept alive. As long as there's a chance, there's hope. In 88 C.E., when Malmi Airport turned 50 — the wedding was in 38 C.E., not 36 C.E. — I was able to fly on Airveteran DC-3, and I can say that for 30 years the joy of flying has not been forgotten or the atmosphere in that field. As a history enthusiast, it's a big touch, but as a pilot and airman, it's even bigger. My main regret is that the pilot's licence has already been overturned by politics, but you do not know it, even if, in the last few decades, there is still a renewed enthusiasm for aviation as well as for flying. There is talk here of replacing Malmi, but now it is always forgotten that there has been a few colleagues who have raised the matter well here that Malmi cannot be replaced. If necessary, the operations and operations at Malmi can be moved elsewhere, surely there are fields in Finland, in Southern Finland, but Malmi cannot be replaced like my old home field Water wheat. These have historical value, the value of the area, the functional value. Of course, the location also gives a lot of value, and many of the things that have been brought up here from Malmi Airport point out that value in the right way. The field of Malmi is also a reserve landing field for Helsinki Airport today, within the framework of the field for the emergency landing operations on behalf of its own carrying capacity and operational capabilities. But Malmi has functional value. — — — — I think, Mr President, I'll be in that toilet when it looks like it's going so fast. [Second Vice-PresidentTuulaHaatäinen : Please. [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u109	Let's stick to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u110	Madam President! It is very good that this citizens' initiative was taken, and a lot of good points have been made in this debate, both in favour of Malmi and more generally in these matters of small aviation. However, when representatives — at least representatives of Viitanen, Myllykoski and Kari — have sent greetings to the city centre, it should be stressed that we, as a group in the centre, are united in the support of Malmi, both here in Parliament and in the Council. But it is simply a matter of municipal self-government and the decision of the City of Helsinki. The matter has been clarified by the government, and Prime Minister Sipilä has also been involved in it, but the result is that it is simply extremely difficult and in practice almost impossible to change the situation unless the City of Helsinki changes its decision. It's in the hands of the council and its parties. We still hope for this change in the decision of the council, and if there is any chance, then it will be supported by the city centre, both in the council and here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u111	Mr President! This subject seems to arouse great passions for one direction and another, which is of course normal and normal in these local issues, where there is a conflict between protection and construction. At this stage of the debate, all arguments on behalf of Malmi Airport must have been said as well as the arguments that would allow the airport to be transferred to construction. In fact, it has to be said that the only fresh aspect of this debate was Mr Hoskonen who said just now that when Mayor Vapaavuori is so interested in taking a stand on the politics of the kingdom, we too would be taking a little stand here on this planning in Helsinki. I was at least a little amused by this, and I agree with that. However, as a member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I would like to focus more on this general aspect of transport policy, that what is the value of aviation for our country in terms of traffic around the world? It has become clear in the committee that aviation is not, by any means, ending or even decreasing. On the contrary, manned and unmanned drones are the future, and we should be at the forefront of their technological development, and the fact that we could be at the forefront of that, of course, also calls for facilities to develop and test them, in other words, airports in English. That is why I think it is very good that, as a Parliament, we are thinking of the interests of the whole country in these matters and that we are at least concerned about finding replacement airport facilities, with a commitment to this commitment from the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u112	Mr President! There has been a good and detailed debate today on the importance of Malmi Airport not only for the capital region but also for the whole of Finland's air traffic and security of supply, not to mention historical issues, and there have been a lot of contributions in this House today in support of Malmi Airport. Indeed, it is not just a question of air transport, recreational aviation or security of supply, which is also mentioned quite properly in this committee's report, but the location of Malmi Airport would be highlighted, for example, in a major accident in the Gulf of Finland and in the rescue work needed in connection with it. Mr Heinonen referred to this a little earlier in his detailed speech, but I wanted to emphasise this point in particular. Mr President! Very good speeches and arguments for maintaining the field have also emerged from the ranks of the Centre Party, the Prime Minister's Party. But, as Mr Kari has just said, there is also a need for concrete measures to preserve Malmi Airport.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u117	Mr President! As far as Malmi Airport is concerned, we know the previous agreements between the City of Helsinki and the State. At the moment, the City of Helsinki’s position is that they want to plan apartments there. If and when we really want a decision on the continuation of Malmi, that decision-making place is not a parliament, it is the City Council of Helsinki. I personally hope that by our own statement and our own weight we will otherwise be able to influence the fact that the City of Helsinki, together with the Minister and the Ministry's people, will also have a discussion, in principle, in order to preserve Malmi as a whole or to find a substitute field even within good connections and distances from the Malmi area. It is clear that we need small airports, and that future is seen in the area of general aviation in such a way that only the big Helsinki Airport or the regional airports cannot serve the air transport that we will see in the future in terms of intelligent mobility. As far as Prime Minister Sipilan himself is concerned, of course, he has the right to his own opinions, but when we ourselves in the committee have gone through this matter, the constitutional issues and the issues of local self-government have come up very strongly. So the citizens' initiative itself is not unconstitutional, or the idea and the idea in it, but as far as the order of regulation is concerned, whether we can influence the municipal self-government in terms of planning processes and land use, I have come to the conclusion that we cannot.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u118	Mr President! The Centre is responsible for the whole of Finland, including Helsinki. There was indeed a desire to intervene in the matter of Malmi in accordance with the citizens' initiative. We would certainly have made that decision if we had had more power in Helsinki, but the other parties decided otherwise and did not act. Now I wonder where in this Chamber are the representatives of the parties who are deciding that Malmi Airport is not being developed in this way as an airport. Everyone's escaped from this gym — that's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u121	Madam President! The story of Malmi Airport is nearing its end, unfortunately. Or maybe there's still hope. The debate has highlighted the view that Malmi Airport is a Helsinki matter. A few aspects of this Helsinki court alone will determine the future of Malmi Airport: it is true that the fate of Malmi Airport is legally in the decision-making power of Helsinki, but mentally it is a matter for Finland as a whole, culturally speaking it even affects Europe as a whole, and it is a matter common to the capital region in particular. Malmi Airport should not be shut down. It is a unique entity whose national value is not measurable in money but whose importance is greater than life, its importance is overgeneration and therefore part of our national treasures. It is part of our aviation history, it is an architecturally significant entity, so Malmi Airport's importance is invaluable. It is invaluable from the point of view of aviation education and leisure activities in the entire metropolitan area. This description of the speciality of Malmi Airport could continue indefinitely. It is therefore particularly surprising why Helsinki does not see the value of Malmi Airport. Or would it be more correct to say: why do Helsinki politicians fail to see the value of Malmi Airport? When the Prime Minister gave his spiritual support to Malmi Airport here at previous hearings, it was a remarkable statement, even though it was already possible to sense that Lex Malmi would not be able to cope with constitutional enlightenment. It is not the fault of any party, least of all the Prime Minister. Now we have an interesting phase ahead of us. Will Helsinki be the capital of Finland, which recognises the interests of Finland as a whole and decides to re-examine the matter of maintaining Malmi Airport? The capital region, and in particular Helsinki, as a capital city, would expect a leadership that would not always look to its own interests. All of you who have ever boarded a small plane from Malmi Airport know that when that landscape opens up, the surrounding area of Malmi Airport is full of empty bats, forests. There is so much space there that it seems almost incomprehensible to say that this is the kind of flat we want and want to put these 25,000 apartments in. And when you take into account these so-called economic realities, what kind of swamp area is this area at Malmi Airport and how many kilometres of poles you have to put there, that you can build a single house there, it seems inconceivable why the politicians in Helsinki do not understand and see this when it is easy to see and see. Dear Helsinki, ladies and gentlemen of the politicians in Helsinki, I appeal to you: You now have the power and the opportunity to make history, to preserve history and to reverse this decision you made, to re-examine it, to conduct negotiations with the state on some other solution. It's all your decision-making. Lead the country now, as it should be, not from just one small point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u123	Mr President! Almost everything has already been said, and what has just been said was a good example of that. Yes, legal considerations lead to this decision, which is here. But at the same time that we really know what the significance of Malmi is, such as the value of cultural history, it is precisely because it is a functioning airport. As a mere building, it is not as important as it is today as a functional field. The second thing that has not really been said here is that we have now found: It is the second busiest airport in Finland and a truly significant destination for aviation. In view of the importance of aviation for Finland, the situation in Asia at Helsinki Airport, that is something that must also be protected. If it is thought that this small aviation would be transferred there, there is no need to be a major disturbance when traffic congestion occurs and this thinking at Helsinki Airport is no longer working, and that is how Finland's position will be weakened in this area of aviation. If, on the other hand, we think about future forms of aviation and if we take a robot with fixed wings, it always needs an airstrip, and it is not suitable for Helsinki Airport either. There is no substitute for this, and this statement is very important in that respect. Malmi must not be stopped until the operations continue
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u124	Madam President! Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the Prime Minister, he thanked the Prime Minister for his remarks on behalf of Malmi Airport. In today's debates, several speakers have made it clear that the city centre has, in time, defended Malmi Airport. It is a fact, and the centre will continue to defend it if it is possible to preserve Malmi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u131	Madam President! For my part, I should like to make a final contribution to this matter, and I would like to remind you what this is all about. Now there is a citizens' initiative on which the committee has put together a unanimous report,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u136	Madam President! I would also like to mention here that the uniqueness of Malmi Airport as a meeting place for old tradition and new innovations is endless. The development potential of Malmi Airport is enormous. It could be a European attraction and tourist attraction,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u139	Mr President! Representative Mika Kari raised the role of Finns in maintaining Malmi Airport. He said that work should be done here, not just in Parliament. Well, at least the fact that Mr Raatikainen, who made this proposal here in the course of the sitting on behalf of the citizens' initiative, has also acted very strongly in front of Malmi Airport in the City Council of Helsinki. Representative Maijala from the city centre has just stressed the role of the city centre in maintaining Malmi Airport and even asked where the other responsible people are. Well, let it also be noted in the Minutes that there have been practically all the other parliamentary parties in this Chamber during the debate, not just the centre, so there is every effort to shoulder that responsibility. Moreover, of course, I would have liked the Prime Minister's Party to take concrete action earlier, not just now that this citizens' initiative is here at first reading after the committee's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-20-ps-25.u142	Mr President! I also asked for this last speech because of the failure to thank the citizens' initiative makers, which, of course, should have already been made in that presentation. But I would have liked a different solution to be found, even though these precedents, as Mr Laukkanen said, were indeed bad. They didn't find those solutions. There is indeed a Constitution there, and the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is unambiguous. There's no wonder there's more to it than that. This is the only solution we could find. But I think that the citizens' initiative should be respected so much that it should be brought into the Chamber, and this, although it does not seem nice, is what happened. Now, however, that statement, which the Committee on Transport and Communications has made, is based precisely on those activities, and it continues to give the Friends of Malmi the impetus to contact and act on the Helsinki Council because it has the right and the opportunity to save Malmi Airport. It must be clear from this debate in the Chamber that cultural historical and aeronautical reasons today and in the future are in favour of the preservation of Malmi Airport. I assume the City of Helsinki will take this matter seriously.
