ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed and the debate was suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2018. In the debate, Sami Savio Ritva, supported by Elomaa, has made a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. The debate was closed and the debate was suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2018. In the debate, Ms Kiljunen, supported by Mrs Salonen, has tabled 3 motions for statements under protest 1, Ms Juvonen, supported by Mr Sami Savio, 2 proposals for statements under protest 2, Ms Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Mr Matti Semi, 2 proposals for statements under protest 4 and Ms Biaudet Mats Löfström, supported by Mrs Löfström, 2 proposals for statements under protest 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u4	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u5	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed and the debate was suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2018 The debate, supported by Mrs Kiljunen Kristiina Salonen, has proposed that 2. the draft law is rejected. With the support of Mrs Mats Löfström, Mrs Biaudet has proposed that the first and second draft law be rejected. Arja Juvonen, supported by Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, has proposed that the bill be rejected. In addition, with the support of Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto Krista Mikkonen, the debate has been followed by a motion for a statement under protest 3 and by Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Matti Sem, a proposal for a statement under protest 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u6	First, the second draft law, then the first draft law, and finally, the third draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u7	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u8	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 17 December 2018 The debate, supported by Mr Sami Savio, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected. In addition, Mrs Salonen, supported by Mrs Kiljunen, has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u9	The first decision is to adopt or reject draft laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u10	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u11	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed and the debate was suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2018. In the debate, Sirpa Paatero Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been distributed to the representatives, in multiple form.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u12	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u13	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed and the debate was suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2018. In the debate, Mr Harakka Krista Mikkonen has supported three statements of opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u14	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u15	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed and the debate was suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2018. In the debate Timo Harakka Krista Mikkonen, supported by Krista Mikkonen, has made an objection to the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u16	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u17	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed and the debate was suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2018. In the debate, Jyrki Plant Krista Mikkonen has suggested that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u18	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed and the debate was suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2018. In the debate Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Rami Lehdo, has proposed that 1. the draft law is rejected. In addition, with the support of Rami Lehto Sami Savio, there has been a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u19	First, we'll decide on the first bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u20	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u21	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 28/2018 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u22	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 17 December 2018. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 21.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u23	We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 23. The section debate was suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u24	Mr Haraka's proposal 5 and Mr Uotila's proposal 6 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u25	Section 35 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment will now be presented. Representative Heinonen will begin, then representative Juhantalo and then Minister Tiilikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u26	Madam President! I'm presenting the section of the Ministry of the Environment. I'd like to start by thanking you, Minister. I would also like to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for their good work and good cooperation with us in the section and also with the whole of Parliament on these issues of housing and the environment, and I would also like to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for their good work and for raising these issues. Thank you, too, for our excellent committee adviser, Mari Nuutila, with whom we have done a great deal of work this autumn, and I would also like to thank all the experts who have visited the committee as well as our section and have highlighted these additional and corrective needs in the next year's budget. A few comments to this effect: The Finnish Environment Agency, Syke, and Aranda in particular, have been present. We also went over Aranda in the section and said that, according to our analysis, the problems with the use of Aranda last summer were not due to lack of funding but to administrative problems, but to Sykkeen we are allocating an additional EUR 240000. Secondly, environmental organisations that are doing very effective, important work with relatively small resources: next year, all these organisations will be funded at the same level as this year. So there will be no cuts, and Parliament will increase funding there by 200,000, as proposed by the Committee on Finance. We also recognise the valuable environmental work of the Hunter Federation. They make the highest number of wetlands in Finland, and an appropriation of EUR 100000 is allocated to this work. Metso money is also at a good level. At present, these have been increased several times by this government, and now we are adding EUR 200,000 to the protection of wetlands. It has also been possible to increase the number of Saimaan seals to 400, and to strengthen the protection of the Saimaan elephant we are allocating an additional EUR 100000. Climate change is a major common challenge, and that is something we are also taking into account. Three more man-years of staffing are allocated to the secretariat of the Climate Panel in our report. Then, when we grow up, we'll target the nature sites of Metsähallitus. Finland has a total of 40 national parks and a large number of other natural sites. Over the years, these have also accumulated some 44 million and even more of the famous repair debt. One of the challenges there is, for example, the numerous large buildings on the island of Örö and Vallisaari, the former garrison buildings and this type of building. That is why we propose to make a statement that, when we are unlikely to be able to renovate these with longwood, bird-tower and nature-target funding, we could find a way to rent these items with longer, rather nominal leases for business use and then include such an investment obligation and an obligation to renovate them. This could be one option here. At the same time that these natural sites suffer from a shortage of money, they are more popular than ever. Last year around 3 million visitors visited national parks, and the total income and employment impact in 2017 was around 207 million and 2055 person-years. The most important in local economic terms were Pallas-Yllastunturi National Park and Urho Kekkonen National Park, and every euro that is invested in these will be returned to the local economy about ten times. For example, the number of visitors to Nuuksio was 320,000. Nearly 4 million will be allocated to reduce the repair debt: the biggest investments in Liesjärvi and Torronsuo, the renovation of the Aulango observation tower and the rehabilitation of the Nuorttijoki bridge in Urho Kekkonen National Park. There is also a great deal to be done about accessibility. As a new issue, we want more unhindered nature destinations to come to Finland. The magnificent nature of Finland belongs to everyone, and to this we allocate a special amount of our own. EUR 200,000 will be allocated for the rehabilitation of the deserts and a number of water projects will also be available. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say a few words about construction and housing. It's in pretty good shape right now. However, we want to further strengthen the accessibility measures for lifts, and here we underline the need to be able to install lifts in old houses as well in those houses where there are no lifts, but, on the other hand, the old lifts also need to be turned firmly into accessible ones. And we also wonder whether we have between 210,000 and 220,000 apartments in Finland that are located in houses that do not currently have very easy or no investment loans, and whether this support could also be slightly higher in these areas in the future. Mr President! In this short time, the Ministry of the Environment's administrative sector increases and a brief review of next year's budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u27	Madam President! This section is not exactly the section that I run, the Section for Employment and the Economy, but with this section, the President of the Section for the Environment, I have had a very good opportunity to work together because our projects and theirs are very closely correlated. That is why I would like to express my warmest thanks to President Heinos and to the section member, Mrs Hautala, for the work we could do together to improve the structure of the budget. I would just like to mention a few of them that were very close to us: this was the repair of the Säp lighthouse and the Geopark plan on Kauhajoki. In this respect, thank you very much for having found the cooperation in which you found your budget and these ideas from us to achieve this. In this context, I will not interfere any longer because, as I mentioned at the outset, I am happy to present section 32, which is actually the section that belongs to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u28	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Finance, especially the members of its Housing and Environment Section. For my part, too, this cooperation has been very good and productive and, in addition to each other, we have been able to identify the areas of the environment, the construction sector and also energy policy which, with the help of state resources, are good for moving forward. A few picks here from the environmental side: I would like to mention that enhanced programme for the protection of the Baltic Sea and water, to which the government will actually allocate EUR 15 million next year, and the committee also added a little more detail, thanks for that. For biodiversity, Metso's funding will continue at a good level next year. In fact, the nature services of Metsähallitus, how we are able to secure citizens' recreation opportunities in these valuable national parks and other sites, have now been greatly improved. The increase of 4 million in the committee, the budget proposal for next year, which has been raised by the government by a couple of million, and the two million recently granted in the supplementary budget, are indeed an important contribution to the dismantling of that debt of correction, which has been observed together there, and I would also like to thank the committee on behalf of Nature Services for that additional money. Construction continues to be strong. Actually, this year is a record. Next year it will be assumed that there will not be quite so much housing or new housing, but very, very busy that construction will continue, and that is a good thing. Supported production at affordable prices will start next year with around 8,500 to 9,900 apartments, and it has also been well established over the last few years, especially in the production of student housing. In practice, the objectives of the MAL agreement on land use, housing and transport are well pursued by both cities and the state. I would like to make a special mention of that capitalisation of A-Kruunu, 50 million next year, which will allow for a few years' delay in doubling the production of this country's moderate housing company, so it will also be important to secure affordable housing. Energy: Actually, we have a pretty good situation with regard to energy subsidies. Renewable energy, new energy technologies have been successfully promoted. From there, I would like to point out rather what has already changed in that budget, which revenue has increased and expenditure has decreased. By the time climate policy has been strengthened and emissions trading has started to function better, emissions trading revenues have grown. In fact, I checked just that morning that this year, too, more emissions trading revenue has been generated than anticipated in the amending budget. Next year, emission allowances will be sold significantly less, they will enter the market considerably less than in the past, but on the other hand, the price will be higher. And it may be that this budget estimate, hopefully, will be exceeded next year in terms of revenue. There has also been such a consequence that when the price of electricity, its market price, has risen somewhat, the need for support for renewable energy has also fallen considerably. These are something to be noted, because we are talking about the benefits of tens of millions in taxpayers' pockets because of these changes. So the government gets more income, less spending. Mr President! Since I am unable to attend Question Time on Thursday because of the Environment Council, there will also be an Energy Council meeting in Brussels tomorrow, with a few words on the rules for implementing the Paris climate agreement, which was now adopted in Poland this weekend: in practice all the countries of the world have committed themselves to the Paris Agreement, to joint efforts to keep warming below 2°C, preferably at 1.5°C. This weekend we were able to establish very detailed and uniform rules for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. It is a remarkable achievement at a time like this when there are many crises and differences around the world. However, such multilateralism, multilateralism, has shown itself to be effective in the face of a common major problem. And those rules are indeed uniform for all. The old world of division where others are required and others are not, the emissions of others are measured, others are not, is history. The rules are what the Paris Agreement has earned. All countries are now subject to climate action, and that is the way it should be, and these activities and emissions are monitored with the same sapluon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u31	All right, let's go to the debat. About half an hour's debate and it will be initiated by the chairman of the committee, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u32	Mr President! It is a great thing that the Committee on Finance has increased some of the funding for environmental protection, including the correction debt of Metsähallitus nature reserves, national parks. However, it must be borne in mind that, when this government started, the biggest cuts were made in relation to environmental and nature conservation. So we're still a long way from repairing those surgeries. I would like to express my thanks and congratulations to Minister Tiilikainen for the good work done by both the Minister and the entire Finnish negotiating team in Katowice in order to achieve a reasonable result. It was good that at the Katowice climate conference Finland entered the front line of those countries that called on all countries to increase their emissions targets in order to really curb global warming.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u33	And vice-chairman of the Environment Committee, Mr Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u34	Madam President! I would also like to thank the Minister for his good work in international negotiations and the Committee on Finance for the increase in the budget for environmental protection. Unfortunately, as Mr Hassi said, we began our period with unfortunate major cuts, and we have not yet reached or caught up with a quite sufficient level. Metso now seems to have these budgets on track, but the next governments have to make sure that we get to the finish line. Environmental protection appropriations must bear in mind that we are committed to halting biodiversity loss by 20 and should be taken into account in all these appropriations. I would also like to express my thanks for the capitalisation of A-Kruunu — a very important means of achieving affordable housing — but I would like to criticise the fact that, although 40 years of interest subsidies were now being reformed in the direction proposed by the committee, the reform was still mid-term. Short-term interest subsidies are still much more attractive in terms of their terms, and I would have liked to have seen it brought to the same level, as long-term aid is absolutely essential for the sustainability of housing policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u35	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Committee on Budgets for these additions. In particular, Mr Heinonen has been active here, and good emphasis has been given. This is a section in which, in terms of appropriations, very small amounts are spoken of, but on the other hand it is known that this sector is of fundamental importance. We know that the human activity and the load we impose on nature is not sustainable at the moment, and these measures are needed. Thank you, too, to Minister Tiilikainen, who has done well at that Katowice climate conference, and we can indeed be glad that Finland was on the agenda of that important meeting with a strong message. I myself would like to highlight this additional allocation for the Baltic Sea in order to reduce eutrophication. It is a very necessary rapid action, but more long-term action is also needed, with perhaps less attention being paid to the study work aimed at reducing the accumulation of surplus nutrients in fields.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u36	Mr President! It was really good that Katowice had a set of rules. Thank you to all those who contributed to it. This creates a good opportunity for us in Finland to achieve the goals set. In the first year of the government, huge cuts were made in environmental protection. Fortunately, we have now managed to catch up with that operation. That's a good thing. We've already found the money from Metsähallitus. That is also a good thing. The protection of the Saimaan seal in this context is particularly good. Then for housing policy: Fair-price housing production is still at too low a level. Capitalisation of A-Krunu is a good thing for this, but new issues are becoming, for example, areas with a declining population and the possibility of housing companies in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u37	Let's stay in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u38	Madam President! Biodiversity is even a greater challenge than climate change, even though not so much is said about it in this Chamber. So it is excellent that the Metso programme is now secure, but we really need to make sure that the programme continues next season. The round table discussions with various actors in the forest sector and small activities across the board can also make a significant contribution to increasing diversity together, thanks to the Minister for the Environment, Mr Tiilikainen. During this period, our climate targets have been tightened in Finland. By the way, the last time the targets were tightened up during the second period, when the centre was last in the places of major climate and energy ministers. In the last period, the objectives were not tightened in any way — not a single objective. [Department:Good note! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u39	Madam President! Planning complaints usually prolong the planning process in municipalities for an average of 15.7 months and in cities with over 100,000 inhabitants for 16.5 months, which greatly increase the workload of town planners and officials. It also slows down the construction of municipal housing production when many of these formulas come in. I mean, it's a lot of bullies, or it's just not good enough for someone to build anything anywhere. Now, however, we have started this year, and next year, this overall reform of land use and construction legislation will continue, and this is directly linked to it. I would like to ask Mr Tiilikainen: what will be done in connection with this reform to reduce these complaints and speed up their handling in order to achieve faster housing production?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u40	Madam President! I would like here to join my colleagues in thanking you for that Katowice meeting. It is very important that these emission reductions have common rules. Emissions are emissions, whether they are produced in developing countries or not in developed countries. I would like to draw attention in this section to these biodiversity-related projects in particular. The continuation of the Metso programme is extremely important, and I would also like to highlight this funding for the restoration of these wetlands, which will also enable these endangered species and their populations to be strengthened. These wetlands are also important when it comes to carbon sinks and at the same time improve flood protection and also water quality and gameland. Controlling is one of the things that has recently taken place in the debate. I do not know whether this is more of that section of agriculture, but I would very much like to hear the Minister's views on how it would also be able to respond both to this biodiversity and, above all, to the maintenance of carbon sinks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u41	Mr President! The deterioration of biodiversity is just as serious as global warming. Finland's forests are growing rapidly, but at the same time, unfortunately, our forest nature is impoverished. Of the species of our forests, 814 are endangered, i.e. at risk of extinction, and nearly an equal number of 776 species have been classified for observation. This year will be the 25th anniversary of the conclusion of the UN Convention on Biodiversity. We are committed to halting the loss of biodiversity by 2020, reducing the pressure on it and increasing the sustainable use of natural resources. However, this halting of the loss of biodiversity by 2020 does not seem particularly bright in the light of current developments. More needs to be done. The SDP wants to safeguard biodiversity, and that is why, in addition to these additions, we are calling for more resources for the acquisition of nature reserves and also for the securing of the Metso programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u42	Madam President! Today, a survey of the endangered habitats has been published, which gives some worrying signals about the state of Finland’s natural environment. Almost half of all habitats in Finland have now been classified as endangered. 100% of our traditional biotopes are endangered and as many as 76% of forest habitats are endangered. However, as Mr Marin said earlier, we are committed to halting the loss of biodiversity by 2020, but Finland will not achieve these objectives to which we are committed internationally. The Group of the Greens has therefore proposed that we should correct our protection programmes and increase the resources to complete the protection programmes so that we can naturally take better care of ourselves than is the case with this budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u43	Madam President! I too would like to join in thanking Mr Tiilikainen for the outcome of this Katowice report. That was not yet the final point, but it was a good step forward. Ladies and gentlemen here are delighted to have been concerned about the loss of biodiversity, which has drawn the serious attention to the fact that, although Finland has more and more trees, we do not have more diversity at the same time. It's because we have a lot of wood but a little forest. This must be noted, and attention must be paid to this in the future. I ask Minister Tiilikainen: what do you think should be given greater attention in the coming years, so that we can achieve these Nagoya objectives and at least stop the loss of diversity?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u44	Irade the Talman! I would also like to thank you for your good work in Katowice, as well as for drawing this group, which is trying to make a joint statement on the climate views of Parliament. It is good that almost all parties are involved. When we talk about climate change and its mitigation, the key role is that we have independent expertise and independent research to support decisions, and during this period the climate panel has taken a very important position. However, its resources are rather limited and the Committee on the Environment has therefore pointed out the need to establish a permanent secretariat there. That would mean additional appropriations, but I think it would be of great benefit overall in view of these future challenges. How do you feel about this, Minister? Would you consider raising the funding for the climate panel?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u45	Madam President! I would also like to thank the whole government and, of course, the Minister in particular for the work that has been done at the Katowice meeting and to implement the commitments of the Paris climate agreement. One must wonder if anyone is opposed to this type of international agreement and multilateral cooperation. This is the most sensible way to tackle the problems that exist and to promote the good that can be promoted in the world on these issues. If we look at the situation in Finland, we have, however, reached a few countries where the economy is growing — as has now happened in this government — and emissions are still decreasing. It is a very fine group to be, and that is what we must continue to be. However, I would also like to highlight the built environment and I am pleased that the committee has decided to add more than EUR 160000 to the implementation of the Healthy Facilities project, particularly in the field of indoor air disease research and prevention. For example, this has been a very big environmental problem in my municipality of residence in Espoo that when you are indoors, how you can be there in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u46	Mr President! First of all, I must thank you for having a permanent secretariat for the climate panel. As I recall, 150,000 additional appropriations have been added to the secretariat. I would also like to thank you for the fact that the protection of protective wetlands can now, at least in a small way, be started with the money added by the Committee on Finance. It is also very good that the government, in its own proposal, has already made a significant contribution to the protection of water bodies and, in particular, to improving the state of the Baltic Sea, and I agree that even more far-reaching measures will be needed in the future. It is also a great thing that, at the initiative of the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, this model of budgeting for sustainable development has also received a great deal of praise from officials. It makes visible what we do well for sustainable development and where we still have something to improve.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u47	Mr President! First of all, thank you very much to Mr Tiilikainen. In your time, a great deal of red tape has been removed and environmental management has been managed so that more can be done to focus on practical work than just dealing with complaints. What is also important is that next year this one-stop-shop principle can then be dealt with. It is good that now and finally more money was made for Metsähallitus Nature Services. It is really important and important, because the environment and nature — that is the common cause of all of us Finns. And especially as a Lapp, I say that it is an incredibly big, important thing for tourism, and now this money, which we can get there, has a great deal to do with it. But I expect now that we will have results with regard to these coastal buildings that we will begin to do with them. I will ask Minister Tiilikainen: when there are many others in the nature service sector
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u48	Madam President! I would like to talk about housing policy, and particularly about affordable housing production, which Mrs Myller has already mentioned here. Real estate tax is one element that affects the price of housing, and we have proposed in the SDP that real estate taxation should be reformed to better reflect their fair value. Over this term of government, the volume of affordable housing production has been regrettably low compared to the need that exists in this environment. When it comes to climate change, it is important that we be able to achieve energy efficiency, and so I would ask the Minister: why is the restoration of the use of the correction allowance not made more explicit in these energy efficiency corrections? While there was still a little time left for this, I would like to ask: What is the stage in the halving of the food loss in 2030?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u49	Mr President! I would like to highlight the decline in biodiversity. The sixth extinction wave is on its way. We are talking about such a loss of species, the last thing that has happened 65 million years ago, when dinosaurs and large land and sea animals disappeared from the earth. Now this extinction wave is being caused by man. Today's threat assessment of Finland's habitats shows that half of our habitats are endangered. The most endangered are the traditional biotypes, from which everyone threatens to disappear, three-quarters of the forests are endangered. Now we need rapid and effective conservation measures to preserve these habitats. Of course, in forestry, for example, we need changes in the use and management of forests so that there are more decay trees, because most of the endangered species in the forest, as Mrs Marin has just said, are dependent on decay trees. Unfortunately, in this budget, the procurement appropriations for nature conservation areas are half the level they were in the last period, and we absolutely need more protected areas, and we also need more protected areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u50	Madam President! Many speakers have thanked the Minister for those environmental issues. Thank you for those too, but above all I would also like to thank the Minister for his work on housing and construction. A lot of red tape and standards have been dismantled and construction has been greatly facilitated, and housing construction in particular is currently at a record high level. It also has a very high employment impact, and I hope that it will continue in the future. The construction of affordable housing is important, and I believe that the Minister will also pay great attention to it in the future. The fact that development money is now being given for housing co-operative experiments has not yet been mentioned in the discussions here. That is a good thing, and I hope that it will also take off. Then these MAL contracts. They are a good thing, but I personally hope that the MAL contract technology will be developed and developed also for the medium-sized cities and the regions where it is needed. It is very much needed there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u51	Mr President! I agree that emissions and pollution are a global problem and I agree that man is an important factor in reducing biodiversity. I thank the Minister for your presence at the climate conference, but would you please tell us here why China, for example, is being treated as some kind of developing country in this climate policy? And I would also like to ask: are you going to highlight the burden sharing in the EU by making polluting countries, such as Romania and Poland, play their part, i.e. the so-called free travelers, stop it? The citizens are in a lot of contact and ask whether we now have an increase in the price of gas, because we, as a few million people, are trying to save the mess of hundreds of billions of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u52	Mr President! The residents of an indoor sick house are in a difficult situation when an indoor air problem is discovered in the home. In addition to endangering health, large renovations of the dwelling, refurbishment of movables, a spiral of migration may be ahead. In the worst case scenario, the home may even be exposed as unrepairable, even before the loss of the home. Since the beginning of last year, the situation has become even more difficult, as the State Housing and Development Fund repair grants were put to an end in order to remove the health disadvantage and, in addition, also the obligation to provide guidance and advice from the building supervision authority, which means that even guidance is no longer available. These repairs were aimed at families living in the most difficult circumstances, who no longer had any other way out of their mold trap, and they helped to save a large number of families back to their normal lives and prevent a number of cycles of exclusion and disease, but now these economically impassed economies are no longer receiving any legal assistance, not financial or even advice. Minister Tiilikainen, the people of the homes of molds are desperately in need of support and advice. How and when are you going to fix it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u53	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his hard work in Katowice and thank you for tightening the global level of ambition also for Finland. The fight against climate change is in a burning hurry. At the latest, the IPCC report has made it clear that the climate dimension must be taken into account in all human activities. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you react to the Left Alliance's proposal to introduce the climate impact assessment procedure IVA in all projects with a climate dimension? Mr President! Housing and heating of dwellings is a major climate issue, especially in cold Finland. We would need more means to speed up and support the energy renovations of small houses and housing companies, because often people's money is not sufficient for the necessary and sensible investments, even if they pay for themselves. We would need energy renovation support to support households and housing companies, renewable energy projects and energy efficiency improvements, as well as domestic reductions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u54	Mr President! As we follow this debate, which we are now holding in the Chamber, we can say that I am and we are quite convinced that Finland will play its part in these climate negotiations. In that sense, I would not be very concerned about what Finland is doing. Rather, this debate, which has recently been publicised about the ban on diesels and petrol engines, is a matter of concern to me when it is thought that in the near future we could only drive electric cars. That is an entirely unrealistic objective and I cannot even say whether it would be a sensible solution. I do believe that the car industry will make the necessary corrections, that we will be able to obtain lower-emission diesels in the near future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u55	Madam President! Indeed, the committee added a significant EUR 3.7 million to Metsähallitus' nature services, and it is a very large investment in percentages of these national parks and nature sites, a very significant increase. We have 40 national parks, and the local economy, the employment of local people in areas where job opportunities are also relatively limited, this is a really big investment. Congressman Suutari here asked how about the funding of Kainuu Hossa when it is not here on the list. To that I must say that just last year this national park was established. EUR 2.5 million went there, and the basic funding will certainly keep it in good shape. The deserted are there with them. It's a treasure that rarely comes out, but it's an ear tag. And indeed, the climate panel received 150,000 — it is a significant hand-out in the direction of climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u56	Madam President! Thank you, indeed, to the section for these additions. I am particularly grateful for these additions to the national parks, especially Pyhä-Häk and Salamanjärvi National Parks. These are very important regional policy issues, but this correction debt, which is growing in our national park network, will also be a problem in the coming period, and I am sure that solutions will have to be sought. For this climate policy: Thank you Minister For the brickman, exciting action at the climate conference. We have now achieved really good steps in this regard during the last parliamentary term. — On good grounds, I can put a question to the Greens on the left side of the Chamber: what are your achievements in climate policy? — — — — Finland's climate emissions also fell last year, and this is largely due to the measures taken during Matti Vanhanen's second government, which are now biting. They were prepared under the leadership of the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Pekkarinen, and now the good effects are visible. Unlike many EU Member States, Finland’s CO2 emissions actually fell last year. There's plenty of talk, but we really have to do those things, and that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u57	Madam President! I would also like to express my appreciation for these national parks. They are attractive tourist destinations, and a small amount of investment actually has a major regional economic impact and, for this employment, young people in particular have been able to employ them. Since there are not many jobs for young people in those remote areas, this is an important point. Indeed, there was additional funding for renovation, but I also think it is important that there was money to increase accessibility sites. It is also important to take into account all the special groups in order to get to the places of fire and to those who are deserted. Of course, we need to be patient here, along with these new national park clothes. As has been said, there is already a great deal of repair debt here today. But I would agree with Mrs Majala's request regarding Posion Korouoma National Park. That's where the status would bring more tourists. There are already many climbers and bird travelers. I believe that, hopefully, there will now be a study and a survey of what this national park status would mean to the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u58	Mr President! Environmental issues and housing issues are important, and Finns have also presented their own options for these themes. First of all, in the area of housing, it is important to lower housing costs. We have therefore proposed, among other things, to make electricity transmission prices more reasonable, to cancel increases in taxes on heating fuels, to lower the thresholds for real estate tax, to introduce extended migration aid, and to make the housing conditions of special groups fit in with renovation grants. How does the Minister view these proposals from the Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u59	Madam President! The Government and the Minister should of course be commended for all the efforts they have made to tighten the global and EU emissions targets in climate policy, and at that meeting last week you have been working hard behind the shoulder — thank you for that. After all, last season the Climate Act was a threshold issue for the Greens, and that climate law was implemented and decided that it would come into force. The Greens have also proposed setting a deadline for all fossil fuels, and when the black spot of the government's climate policy, namely the burning of peat in this period, would still be placed on a scheduled ban list, together with the limitation of other fossil emissions, would already be in climate policy close to the hallmark of a strong forerunner. Minister, as the main causes of the threat to habitats have been identified in the report on forestry measures — drainage, deforestation — and eutrophication of water, we have quite a clear signal of the direction in which nature conservation policy, environmental policy and forestry policy should be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u60	Let's just keep this up for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u61	Madam President! It is clear that natural values, the condition of water bodies and biodiversity are important to us all, and I do not know whether there is any party in this Parliament for which these values are not important. Nevertheless, Minister, I would like to ask you what can be done in this Parliament for public debate, because now it seems that some people are no longer having children because they fear that the world will be destroyed? This thing's gotten a little out of hand sometimes, I think. We blame the forest industry, which has increased the carbon sequestration capacity and the volume of forests very strongly, which is important for saving the world, we blame domestic agriculture, we blame those who drive petrol cars, and people are quite anxious and may draw the wrong conclusions as to what is Finland's ability to influence global climate issues. Our emissions are 0.1% or something of global emissions, and when we have an international zero-sum game, then if agriculture, forestry in Finland stops, it will move somewhere else and the climate effects will be worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u62	Mr President! With regard to housing policy, I am dealing here with one detail and it relates to the repair grants for new lifts, and from now on they have also been granted to make old lifts unhindered. However, this change has been interpreted rather narrowly and not all the necessary renovations have been made in this respect. It would therefore be quite appropriate for this interpretation to look a little wider in order to support, among other things, the survival of older people and people with reduced mobility in their own homes. In that respect, the unanimous message of the committee, which is also in this report, should also be put into effect in the Ministry in order to mobilise these grants. At the same time, I welcome the fact that, now that the correction rate has been reduced from the previous 50 to 45, we are now considering, by the end of March, whether it could be increased in the ageing regions. This should be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u63	Madam President! The Housing and Environment Section of the Committee on Finance proposed an increase of more than EUR 5 million in total to the draft budget, and this year we wanted to emphasise precisely the role of national parks. There, 2.8 million will be invested in 19 parks and various natural sites. In addition, accessibility and route guidance, as well as others, were our target group. With this, we want to support, in particular, the importance and future of the tourism industry. There has been a lot of climate debate here, and I personally see that Finland can be a very good consultant on these very issues of the environment and climate. We have particularly good expertise in energy and environmental technology, for example, and it is one of the most important industries in the Vaasa region. In other words, Finland must be a consultant to the world. We are not only able to handle matters with our own emission limits, but by consulting others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u64	Madam President! I would also like to join these thanks for the measures taken by the Katowice climate conference and to say what became of the RKP's ranks: we also had good cooperation with the Minister from this point of view, and we decided to add EUR 150,000 to this remuneration of the secretariat of the climate panel in Parliament, which means three man-years. So this was done as the parliamentary work progressed. I still want to underline this wonderful thing that was done in this Parliament, namely these easy-to-road, accessible nature destinations: We need easy routes, we need broad longwoods, but this does not just mean wheelchairs, but our population is ageing and we need objects that are easily accessible to the fire or enjoy beautiful Finnish nature. This is the kind of thing that I think is one of the happiest Christmas gifts for all of us nature lovers in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u65	Madam President! After all, the Audit Committee produced an historic, unanimous report on housing policy a few days ago. In it, quite unanimously, Parliament sends its greetings for the need for a long-term programme of eight years over the parliamentary term, which, among other things, pays strong attention to the prevention of segregation in residential areas and makes a neighbourhood programme. President! It happened that the committee unanimously also stated that the cost of living is far too expensive. Of course, we know today that housing prices and rent prices in large cities have now risen faster than disposable income and, of course, for low incomes in particular, housing costs in relation to disposable income are far too high. The committee talks about a number of measures, including ways of verifying that we have enough affordable rental housing. I would like to ask the Minister: have you now taken note of these many statements made by the committee and now have you gone to prepare them? There are also references to these homes and problems in declining areas with regard to vacant dwellings, many good proposals. What is the stage in their preparation, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u66	Madam President! Nature tourism is an export destination for Finland's future, from which increasing income is expected, and it is also important to us at national level. That is why it is worrying that there will be an increase in the debt to repair natural sites, and rightly the report states that this will not be achieved with normal budget funding. Other means of financing should therefore be introduced. I would like to ask the Minister: has the Ministry considered the construction of a completely new financing model and the search for a new kind of investment in this area, where there are very clear expectations of returns and where there is also a major national significance for Finland? Has it been considered that there would be some kind of fund or foundation model or something else that would be outside of budget funding, to get these important areas in order as quickly as possible to make them more attractive to foreigners to come to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u67	Madam President! Next year's budget shows that this government and parliamentary parties are doing a strong job for Finland's environment. I particularly welcome the Baltic Sea Protection Programme — a three-year protection programme of EUR 45 million. Next year, the programme will start with EUR 16 million. It is excellent that we are getting speeded up in the protection of the Baltic Sea because all the countries along the Baltic Sea have slipped away from protection, and now Finland is setting an example. When large resources are available, they must also be targeted and research has shown that gypsum waste applied to fields effectively reduces phosphorus leaching into watercourses. It is therefore important that a significant part of these resources be put into plaster, especially in the Archipelago Sea and the demolition of its manure bomb — a very big environmental problem. So I ask the Minister: in what way will the resources of the protection programme be allocated? And it is true that, in the long term, we will also find out how we can make the circular economy available. Agri-environmental aid must also be better targeted. When 20% of emissions come from certain arable areas, it is clear that there will also be subsidies in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u68	Mr President! The Finns take climate and environmental issues seriously. So we are not content to declare, but we are presenting concrete and effective and realistic means. The fact that the polluter countries China and India were still classified as developing countries in the Paris climate agreement is a real disgrace. In the opinion of the Finns Party, environmental and climate policy should be such that products are produced in Finland, that industry is kept in Finland, because we produce them purely and with respect for nature. Emissions from Finnish motorists are 0.15 per mil of global emissions, so that it is pointless for us to harass an ordinary person who has a normal car with a common dwelling, with high gas prices and other housing costs. We should make an environmentally friendly policy in a way that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u69	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Tiilikainen, for his good work in Katowice. And thank you also for increasing affordable housing production by capitalising the A-Kunu by EUR 50 million. I also very much welcome the fact that the construction and repair of apartments for special groups is proposed to be supported by investment grants of EUR 110 million and those grants are primarily targeted at the promotion of housing for the most vulnerable groups. There will also be money for renovation grants, mainly to support the retrofitting of lifts and the renovation of elderly and disabled dwellings. This accessibility is, of course, very important, especially for the elderly and the disabled. I would ask: are we going to prevent the problems of living, and in what way? Housing counselling would increase the possibility for tenants to receive support at an early stage, for example, for problems with rental payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u70	Madam President! Greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport go about this way from 2017: about 92 per cent for motor vehicles, 4 for water transport, 2 for air transport, and still good one per cent for rail transport. In this public debate, diesel drivers are vaccinated with high prices, fuel prices, charges and also car value reduction speeches, although previous governments have been quite determined to encourage citizens to buy diesel cars here at long distances in Finland. I ask the Minister: how does the government see and how does the Minister see this public debate around diesel cars? Diesel drivers are vaccinated even though the new diesel technology is quite effective in cleaning greenhouse gas emissions and other poisons from this process. What is the government going to do to ensure that car importers do not suffer undue harm from this and also from the citizens — the depreciation of cars is a reduction in the value of property?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u71	Mr President! One of the most important tasks of the forthcoming government is to significantly increase the procurement budget for nature conservation areas and to halt the loss of biodiversity. Another important task is to reverse the national park debt. I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for an important addition: EUR 4 million for national parks and their structures. It's a good start, of course. In recent years, a fish road strategy has made progress in the conservation of fish, but this does not address all the smallest hydropower dams, which are, for example, significant barriers to the spawning of fish in Uusimaa. I would like to ask you, Minister Tiilikainen, as Minister for Energy: how do you see whether we could do a programme to map out these harmful dams and promote their dismantling in order to safeguard the rise of fish? Finally, I would like to thank you for your work as Minister. You've done your best, and I appreciate your work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u72	Madam President! For the section of the Ministry of the Environment, the Finns of Finland make a few statements, and I will say them here. Firstly, with regard to housing prices, we propose that the government prepare a housing billing programme without delay, which invests in, among other things, the production and renovation of rental dwellings, the elimination of homelessness, the reduction of housing costs by reducing heating costs, property tax and the tax on transfers of funds, the reduction in the price of electricity transmission, the prevention of land speculation, the acceleration of planning, the intervention of excessive rents, and the support for changes resulting from the acquisition or replacement of a job. Secondly, we have a statement of 22 tomorrow in the vote, in which we propose that the government prepare measures to eliminate the homelessness of Finns at the same speed as it provided housing for a large group of asylum seekers. Minister, please,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u73	Congressman Talvitie, member of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u74	Mr President! Thank you to the Housing and Environment Section of the Committee on Finance. You've done a good job. It is here that there are investments in climate issues, in water issues and then in biodiversity. Nature sites are important for both domestic and foreign tourism, and it is therefore good that money has been added to the renovation and development of national parks and natural sites and also to unhindered natural sites. What is also important is that money has been added to the rehabilitation of several water bodies, including the protection of the Saimaan seal and the rehabilitation of the Baltic Sea. During the autumn, the Coalition Party has prepared environmental objectives, which will be published in January, and the theme will be ‘responsible for freedom’: responsibility for diversity of nature, responsibility for climate and responsibility for water systems. In that sense, I also welcome the fact, as Vice-President of the Party, that these are very similar to what will be done next year in the budget. Thank you again, Minister for the Environment, Mr Tiilikainen, especially for the efforts and discussions that Katowice has made over the last few weeks, but also for your work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u75	Mr President! I agree with the congratulations that have been expressed to the Minister. Katowice was a very important achievement because of the fact that countries were then put on the same line and common rules of play. However, I hope that in the future we will not create horror images in Finland. I think that Mr Eestilä partly described the situation. There must be facts on the basis of which matters are dealt with, and we must have our own responsibility to deal with them, but not in such a way that people are appalled by this situation, because I do not think there is anything to do with it. In Finland, forests and fields and natural resources are the ones through which we can do very much. In time, when Metsähallitus was chopped up, this problem arose, which we have been discussing here today in connection with these national parks and the like. I would just like to say that at the time 54 million were this share of nature and environmental services, which is now no longer receiving funding from Metsähallitus. That sufferer here is this side now, and we need to find funding for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u76	Madam President! I also share the thanks that have been expressed here both for the specific efforts made by the section president, Mr Heinos, and for the work of Minister Tiilikainen and his officials in general, but above all for that meeting in Katowice. Climate change is real. Even an old man like me has to say it. I am not as optimistic as Mr Östman and some other Members who have spoken here that: Finland will certainly make sufficient efforts in this regard. I am concerned that the debate in Finland, not to mention other countries, on the various means of combating climate change will lead to the opposition of all those affected in a negative way. That is why I ask Minister Tiilikainen: when the government has invited all parties to a round table to assess these means, how is this work going?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u77	There are still a few people who have not received the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u78	Mr President! The section president has already left, but I would like to thank him. We had a good team spirit, and we got good things going. Personally, I would like to raise a few points: First of all, it is great that we have still made money for the Finnish Hunting Federation to build wetlands and protect the environment. This is a good continuum. Another important point I think is that when tourism seems to only increase to natural sites, we received a significant amount of money for Metsähallitus' nature services, including Ruunaa. It has been raised here that there is a good forestry policy in Finland, and all I can say is that there is an excellent forestry policy in Finland. I think it has been handled responsibly. Then, with regard to this wood construction, which is close to me, I would just like to say that the Audit Committee visited a wooden apartment building recently, and now that carbon calculations have been made on it, one wooden apartment house will tie up the amount of coal that 700 cars a year will bring in carbon dioxide. That wood construction does have an important role to play.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u79	There are still three people who have not received the floor in the debate, and I admit that. Then the Minister will answer. — Representatives Pakkanen, Ala-Nissilä and Hoskonen. — The frost is not present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u80	Mr President! Wood construction is an important issue. In Joensuu, the wood construction of the company led by the construction counselor Reijonen was actually introduced. 14 floors. That's a very great thing. Minister Tiilikainen has done more than a Finnish horse, more than one can expect at the Paris Environment Conference and Katowice, and this is the realistic greenness we need in Finland. I do not know how much we need the Green Party, but this is the realistic greenness we need, and it is good that we have Mr Tiilikainen here as Minister. In fact, the section has been able to make these accurate repairs to nature centers and national parks that are in the grip of their evil. For example, Kurjenrahka has been able to receive an appropriation. It's very important. And, of course, the Baltic Sea: when you live near the Baltic Sea beach, those investments are important. Mr President! However, I also refer to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u81	And Hoskonen. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u82	Madam President! Two brief points: The second is climate policy. It is a good thing that progress was made in Katowice too, but I would like to see some restraint and some sense in this debate in that there has been an attack, or at least a public debate, on the basis of which it seems that many older car owners are being blamed for the fact that they are ruining the climate, even though the car is maintained and in good condition, a 10-year-old car and it is being driven a little bit a year. This is by no means the case. It is the best environmental act of all to keep ourselves and our car in order, even if it is ten years old. We'll drive it, and then when it gets to the end of its life, we'll go to the junkyard, and then we'll buy a new one. It is the best environmental act, because even that old car has been built sometimes and has been used in a huge amount of natural resources. The second point is this treatment of carbon sinks: We in Finland have gone on the path of trying to be more papal than the Pope himself. We've got forests growing and everything's gonna be fine. We must take advantage of this opportunity and put an end to such pointless dirtying of our own nests, because we have a chance when we do not spoil them ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u83	Now everyone who has asked for an answer has received it. Then Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u84	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives for their tens of lively speeches. It is nice that environmental and climate issues are of interest. I can't answer everything individually, but I'm trying to deal with all the themes that came up here. I'll start with the apartment. Indeed, now the volume of affordable state-subsidised housing production has increased by about one third compared to the last parliamentary term, and it must be maintained at this level, as Finns will continue to need paid rental housing. And this homelessness, referred to here by a representative, was also a long-term work for the prevention of homelessness, that this long-term homelessness has been reduced to a reasonable degree. Unfortunately, no one will ever get it, but we still have to go on, because every homeless person is too much. Then I would move on to the issue of diversity. Indeed, today we have had such a biodiversity assessment of habitats, which has been a long and hard work for many years now. In fact, what should be done, for example, for forests and other diversity issues? Especially on the forest side of the groves, the roasted ridges, some treeland bogs are the habitats where protection needs to be made with this kind of precision punching more. Metso is a workable tool, and this Metso approach is also intended to go to nature conservation outside the forests now to expand and plan, and in fact now the committee also allocates funds to this. Then traditional biotopes: All traditional biotopes are endangered, and the simple reason is that we no longer have the countryside in Finnish film. Where in a self-sustaining economy a few cows and sheep walk through the small sheds and pastures and forest edges, then such habitats have disappeared because of the loss of life. Well, for a hobby, you can take care of traditional biotopes while living in the countryside, and that's a good thing. In my day as a professional farmer, I myself remember taking a few sheep who tend to traditional biotopes. It went well until the bear ate half of those sheep.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u87	Thank you. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u88	Madam President! Warm thanks to Minister Tiilikainen for his good work, not only now, but throughout the entire parliamentary term. A long-term view of the environment has certainly made this ministry's work a sort of hero story. Special thanks to Mr Heinos, President of the Section for Housing and the Environment, who has also taken note of the voice of the opposition here. I believe that it shows that there is sound reflection on good proposals. I am raising two points here that could produce more for the state than export the state's euro. The first is to support organisations. It is a pity that the money allocated to the organisations is so scarce, less than EUR 2 million. Organisations do environmental work much more cost-effectively than the public sector. It can be said that subsidies to environmental organisations are at their best savings, as they produce such effective work. It is a good thing that the committee added EUR 200,000 to the organisations, which I am sure will encourage them, but I would like to take this as a specific consideration that how much good organisations can produce at really low cost. The second point that the State could make more use of is nature tourism, which I have just spoken about. I will simply say that this is a growing sector in Finland and it needs to be put at the centre in a whole new way, and that is why we need to put all these natural sites in order and catch up with this repair debt. The Minister did not answer this question. Perhaps he will later answer whether these new funding models have been considered. Attention to the state of the Baltic Sea is also very important and it is important that the underwater marine nature mapping programme, Velmu, is continued. And as a Savonlinna citizen, I am particularly pleased with the EUR 100000 added to the protection of Saimaan elephant. This, too, is one of those things that sees how long-term is now reflected in good results and the stock is growing in a good way. I believe that Norwegian researcher Jouni Koskela at Savonlinna is particularly pleased this Christmas. Then, last but not least, I am raising subsidies for repairs. The committee has paid particular attention to the fact that lifts in old blocks of flats can also be repaired unhindered by up to 40% less than the cost of building a completely new lift. This new extension of the use of repair money, the repair of old lifts to be accessible, entered into force in 2018. As Mr Räsänen said here, the ARA has interpreted this possibility so narrowly that it has produced a lot of extra work for the governments of housing companies. Fortunately, the committee has now made this entry more precise so that it will also open up in the ARA, which has been the will of the Parliament. Quote on the report: ‘The majority of correction grants are granted for the construction of new Since 2018, the grant has also been made accessible for the repair of lifts. However, the change outlined by the Committee on Finance has been too limited and the Committee considers it appropriate that the aid should be directed more broadly towards repairing old lifts and making them accessible. This will help the elderly and people with reduced mobility to live at home. For example, there are a lot of houses built in the 60s and 70s in the existing building stock, where it is possible to install a new more spacious body of lifts at reasonable costs in the elevator shafts.” ARA’s communication with regard to these grants has also been relatively limited — Is it feared that there will be too many applications? I don't think so. This is something that requires a lot of expertise, and it takes time to realize that an old lift can also be fixed unhindered. Total sum sumrum: very good
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u89	Madam President! Everyone has a right to a home where they live and build their own lives. However, homelessness is still a difficult phenomenon to identify, especially in situations where a person does not live on the street, but with friends or relatives. Regrettably, there are also people living in prisons, drug treatment facilities and psychiatric hospitals who do not have a home to return to after an institutional period. The background to long-term homelessness is often extensive substance abuse and mental health problems as well as life management challenges. One of the main causes of homelessness is the lack of affordable rental housing, especially in major cities. Fortunately, this problem is once again being tackled and resources put into it. Urban planning must reduce the socio-economic segregation of residential areas. Increased socio-economic segregation has many negative effects on health and education, among other things. If independent housing does not work, there must be sufficient housing available, for example, to eliminate long-term homelessness. We have locations where there is a line of support for housing services. Of course, this should not be the case. The aim of the city centre is to halve the homelessness by 2021 and completely remove it from Finland by 2025. Mr President! Another important factor behind homelessness is the challenges posed by tenants’ life management skills, such as problems with financial management and rent payments and the loss of credit information. The credit default marking of a tenant makes it much more difficult to find a new dwelling, and the rental debt and eviction often prevent it altogether. The lessor’s risk is considerable, as the unpaid rent may be extended to thousands of euros in outstanding debts. It may take years for the claim to be subject to the first performance if the tenant has any income from which the debt could be collected. There are also problems with receiving home insurance if there is a default marking. A marked person may find it difficult to get an apartment because he does not receive home insurance. Insurance companies are not obliged to provide insurance to a person who has repeated records of default. However, several landlords require that home insurance be taken out, in particular because of its liability insurance. For example, the risk insurance project has built a meritably new insurance product that allows a home insurance cover for the owner of the dwelling who has lost his credit information. In addition, LäiviTapiola has piloted a housing security insurance project that protects the property of the property owner and enables rental of the dwelling to people who do not receive home insurance. This project has been carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment’s programme of measures for homelessness and will last until the end of this year. The practices of these projects should definitely be more widely implemented throughout the country. Prevention of housing problems and early support are needed. Housing skills courses aimed at young people in particular, such as secondary students, provide the capacity for the success of independent housing. In addition, it would be important to extend housing counselling to the national level. Housing counselling increases the possibility for tenants to receive early support for problems such as rent payments. For example, housing counselling for municipal rental companies would be a good addition and a necessary working method. For example, housing counselling may have contributed to the reduction of evictions where the service has already been tried.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u90	Madam President! Mr Paloniemi has just spoken very well about housing, housing policy, but I have to say that I myself have been rather dissatisfied with the government's housing policy. During the last parliamentary term, significant investments were made in rail transport, for example, and in the commitment to build big cities along the rail tracks, but there have been no similar investments during this parliamentary term. I have been particularly saddened by the fact that the government has moved the commitment of housing allowance from the index of rents to the consumer index, which in the longer term will significantly decrease the level of housing allowance and will be a major problem, especially in large cities, where poverty is largely due to the cost of housing, the cost of rents. After unemployment, the most important reason for urban poverty is precisely these costs of housing. In that sense, I would have liked the Ministry of the Environment, where housing itself belongs, to pay more attention to this problem — the price of living, poverty and the problems that arise from it. News has been received today about the state of endangered nature in Finland. A mapping of habitats, the "Red Book", has been published. It tells a very disturbing story about the state of Finland’s natural environment. According to it, half of Finland's habitats are endangered and clearly more of these endangered habitats are in Southern Finland. In this light, it must be said that the government has specifically cut funding for the Metso programme, i.e. the Forest Biodiversity Programme in Southern Finland, is a pity — and, above all, the fact that the Government's budget book has little to conclude that the sixth extinction wave is going on. Indeed, today we have some very worrying news about the state of Finnish nature, which means that about half of Finland's habitats are endangered. However, during this term of government, nature conservation funding has been only half of the funding for the previous period. For example, it is this Metso programme that has been drastically cut and the peatlands protection programme has been scrapped. It is high time to take these news about the state of Finland seriously and to turn politics in this respect too. During the last term of government, when the Greens were in the government, a number of improvements were made to the state of environmental protection, but this period has unfortunately gone seriously backwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u93	Thank you. — Let us take one more floor and then change the subject. When the next speaker is not even in the Chamber, then we shall change the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u94	Mr President! It is very nice to listen to this debate, which brings up this common concern, which we have about the environment, climate change and the loss of biodiversity. These are indeed areas for which we must work together. A small comment: Representative Karimäki was concerned about hiking fish and especially the disadvantages caused by small hydroelectric power plants. This is indeed a very legitimate concern, and it has now been welcomed with joy that the Ministry of Justice has prepared an assessment report on the way in which the current Water Act supports the development of migratory fish stocks. This memorandum of assessment is very welcome and will certainly lead to the continuation of this debate on how to look more effectively at the situation of migratory fish through water permits. This is good news. From the budget book in general: It is indeed great that the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, has introduced this method of budgeting for sustainable development as one of the first countries in the world, and this has attracted great interest also in international fields. We can be very proud of that. Promoting sustainable development objectives and measures is the right direction for the wise use of resources to take into account climate and nature and social justice in our society. This requires that sustainable development objectives be included in the budget debate and in the budget book. This is how these themes are handled cross-sectionally and transported, supporting a more sustainable way of life. We know that the burden of human life on nature, on the environment is not on a sustainable basis, and we know that significant changes in our way of life will be needed if we are to have a more sustainable future, and these changes will be needed very quickly. We see and are able to verify from the studies how global warming, water pollution, resource scarcity, biodiversity decline and animal life conditions are shrinking. These issues will not be resolved except by addressing the environmental and climate impacts extensively as part of all decision-making. And of course, this section of the Ministry of the Environment is very central, even though we are not always talking about such huge sums in terms of appropriations. Indeed, the UN climate conference was finally concluded in Katowice, Poland. It was a pleasure to be there as part of the Finnish delegation, Finland was indeed very visible there. The result was the Paris climate agreement's executive rule book, which has been praised here. This is a key tool in how the Paris Agreement will eventually contain and adapt to climate change. In the aftermath of the meeting, it must be said that it is quite clear that it is the EU that is expected of leadership in climate policy and that countries such as Finland must set an example within the EU. This certainly places expectations on Finland's future Presidency of the European Union, which is a huge opportunity for us and a huge opportunity for proof. Climate policy, what is being done, must be based on researched information, facts, and that is what we have available. The IPCC's worrying special report on this 1.5 degree has now been well presented, and the Climate Panel is also doing important work in Finland to provide policy makers with information on the effects of climate change. That is why it is very justified and important that the Committee on Finance added EUR 150000 to enable the secretariat of the climate panel to be paid. We Finns have a unique relationship with nature, and we are privileged because we have such great opportunities to move around in nature. This is why these additions to national parks are important and, in particular, in terms of forest biodiversity, the funding of the Metso programme, which has been well presented here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u95	The debate and section debate will be suspended at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u96	The debate on Section 35, the Ministry of the Environment, will now proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u97	Mr President! The state budget proposal also contains good things in the section of the Ministry of the Environment. In large entities, progress has been made in many areas in the area of housing and environmental protection. Together with these large entities, improvements have also been made to a number of smaller issues. Let me bring up a few of these. It is a very good thing that additional funds have been allocated to reduce the national park repair debt. Our extensive network of civil parks is a matter of national property and national pride. It is good that progress is now being made in maintaining them and reducing their debt to repair. Further progress will also be made in the protection of the Baltic Sea and in the general protection of waters. This is a good thing; I attach great importance to well-targeted water protection. With regard to the protection of waters, or mainly the repair of the afterwater protection that has failed, I too have now had some very concrete experience from Vihti Enäjärvi last summer. The poor state of the lake, like many other water bodies in Uusimaa, is largely due to old waste water discharges, but the sudden weakening of last year's heat summer showed the importance of very long-term environmental protection work in filling the mistakes of old, even decades ago. Mr President! The Metso Forest Protection Programme, which is based on voluntary and reasonable compensations, is a success story, a success story that should be modeled if new protection systems are still being created in this country at some point. It is therefore very good that the programme resources are now being secured for next year too. Mr President! The carbon sinks needed to combat climate change are strengthened, especially by Finnish traditional, good and responsible forest management and use. At best, this committed carbon can be stored in buildings for up to hundreds of years by wood construction. In addition to its economic importance, increasing wood construction will therefore also play a strong role in the storage of coal tied to buildings by carbon sinks. Against this background, too, I very much welcome the budget allocation of EUR 2 million to a climate-friendly programme for the promotion of wood construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u98	Mr President! In the budget debate in the section of the Ministry of the Environment, I was thinking of taking a position here on two points. Considerable efforts have been made here to develop national parks, repair the debt. Here, these parks have been widely included from different provinces. We too have quite a repair debt in Pirkanmaa Lake Hell, and we were also invited to hike there in the autumn — it was still not done, but I think it's time to get to know it too. Here is one thing that I have also heard from nature travelers that when we have these new natural parks, parks, and then renovate them, it may be that some of these tourists, who have done a lot of nature travel, find a new quieter area, because this tourism in the forest, in nature parks has increased so significantly that those who have been used to visiting it for decades will not be suitable for those parks where a large, extensive tourist flow comes and people will hike by busloads. So this is how they experience it. Of course, this is only a small part of the visitors, but this aspect has also come forward, and it must of course also be taken into account in such a way that of course all of us who go there and we are there must appreciate that there is no big fuss in those barbecue places. The second point that I am raising here is that there is a lot of talk about environmental protection and nature conservation, environmental management, and in this context it is good — although tomorrow is the section of agriculture and forestry in which the agricultural subsidies themselves come to the debate — to say that we must continue to be prepared for the fact that we Finnish farmers will also be able to genuinely commit to environmental management programmes, so that the management of the environment and, in that way, through sustainable development, any attempt at agriculture is possible. This will be a challenge in the years to come, and I hope that we will also be able to look at the future budget for the year 20 as early as next spring. In government negotiations, which parties are responsible for environmental matters there, we will also ensure that, for the coming years, there is a real possibility of engaging farmers in environmental management programmes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u99	Mr President! A few aspects of this draft budget, specifically relating to housing policy and housing policy issues. Earlier in the day, in connection with this section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, there was a debate on the situation in the housing market and on the situation of subsidised housing construction, at uterine prices. The opposition expressed the view that this so-called 40-year model of interest subsidies does not, as it were, draw fast enough and in relation to the other volume of housing construction, precisely here in the growth centre regions, in the capital region, including in other growth centres, its share is too small. Well, of course, this is a quite obvious problem, and now, with the legislative amendments that came into force from the beginning of the year, we have been able to correct these particular problems, which have been in this 40-year model. But the big picture is that now that the pace of housing construction has been really hard in recent years, in the last three to four years, especially here in the capital region and in Uusimaa, it is now being said directly, when that money is being made on the private side, that then such an element as the whole of our housing policy, this support for the construction of affordable housing, is obviously not so good at this time. With regard to this so-called'short-term interest rate subsidy' model, the ten-year interest rate subsidy model, certain critical comments were made. Now, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we will obviously soon have a report on its operation. That's what's been going on here for the last three years. Its objective was that the price level of rents in these apartments, supported by this ten-year interest subsidy model, would be between its 40-year interest subsidy model and the market-based rent. So the price of living would be between these. And it is indeed justified to assess how this has worked. From my point of view, this has been a good element, which has been implemented in New Town, for example, in the area of positive structural change such as this, where there has been a sudden increase in demand for dwellings. Rental housing has been built, and it has been a well-functioning element there, and I believe that we should develop that too. In the big picture of our housing market within the country, the differences have grown quite rapidly during the high economic period, and the internal segregation of the country has increased. We have, you might say, two housing markets. On the other hand, in areas where the population is losing, housing does not sell, new housing is being built very little and old, publicly supported building stock in due course, the stock of rental dwellings is deteriorating, it is not being maintained. This is something that this new amendment of the law will hopefully bring relief so that municipalities and cities, which own a lot of these rental dwellings, may be able to dismantle them and get room for new market-based production. But this big picture is a big problem, because in the future, even if the housing company, which is located in a small municipality, is still an example, it is very difficult to obtain funding for the maintenance of such a housing company. This problem should also be resolved. On the other hand, the price of living in these growing areas will rise, especially for low-income households, and also for middle-income households. This problem is then reflected in a variety of other multiplier effects. For this reason, this housebuilding boom, which has now been on the move, has also had a negative multiplier effect. On the other hand, this has also led to an increase in housing allowance expenditure on the support side of housing there at least as quickly as the price of housing, and it is precisely in Uusimaa that the housing allowance expenditure is being accumulated. Most of the general housing allowance is currently paid to the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in Finland. I believe that this is a problem which, when this housing allowance system was created, was not the aim, but the aim was to compensate for this expenditure. However, this is not sustainable because the growth rate of housing allowance is so high. We need a change of direction here, and I believe that in the next parliamentary term, when we look at this whole package of social security systems, we need to be able to move away from supporting owners of rental housing,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u100	Mr President! Of course, the section of the Ministry of the Environment is important, and it should be that we manage our environment well. The first point that draws attention is the EUR 3.7 million allocation for the management of different national parks and other such areas. It is quite a fine money, too, just because I know that the use of many such national parks or natural parks or other similar areas has increased dramatically in recent years, and yes, these areas of movement need to be put in place to ensure that they are safe for users. That's right. The main category of the Ministry of the Environment also includes housing construction, and it has often been said here that there is a recession coming. After all, at the housing fund section it says that housing construction is still at a peak and this year some 43,000 dwellings will be built and next year it will fall to about 40,000. That this is not yet a major sign of recession, but a downward trend, of course. When it comes to construction, it is true that the market here in the capital region has become hotter, which is reflected in prices, and hopefully when that period comes, there will not be a collapse, because then the housing debtors will be in trouble again, and at worst, if the interest rate starts to rise, then the problems will start. That is the reason for many recessions before that the rise in interest rates has caused huge problems for the debtors. The one thing I would like to see, Mr President — and I would like to say this before Christmas, is that we can make wishes in Santa Claus's container, and it is probably reasonable for the Member of Parliament too — is that the Ministry of the Environment should genuinely begin to study and that some neutral operator should name the question of why there are so many of these homes in this country. Man has been to the moon and done all the things and artificial intelligence are planned, and yet I read in a magazine recently that a school in the capital region, four years old, had been closed when indoor air problems were present and the students reacted very strongly. I had to go to the door. A four-year-old school. Is it up to the air conditioners or what's it all about? It cannot be that the wolf and the second are made and then assume that the taxpayer pays for everything. If I buy a bad car in a car shop that doesn't work, it's a guarantee, and at best they give me a new one when the old one doesn't work when you stay tight. When you read bad examples of these construction projects in those magazines, what has happened when there have been moldy houses, and what huge human fates have been suffered there, when, at worst, someone has lost their health so badly that they become pensioners on disability pensions, it is strange that we are, after all, in a state of technology and we have not been able to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u101	Mr President! As I said earlier in the debate today, it is a great thing that the Committee on Finance made many well-founded additions to the section of the Ministry of the Environment. However, it is good to remember that when this government began its work, it made the most drastic cuts in relative terms to environmental and nature conservation and development cooperation. Only some of these giant surgeries have now been corrected. The importance of this issue is also underlined by the assessment of the endangered nature of Finnish habitats published today, which shows that almost half of Finland's habitats are endangered. I would like to say a few of these additions made by the Committee on Finance: The committee increased the budget of environmental organisations by EUR 200,000 after the government had proposed to reduce it by EUR 100000. This correction is really necessary. In the course of this government, environmental organisations and citizens have been entrusted with tasks previously carried out by public authorities, in particular in the monitoring of the implementation of environmental legislation. If the Government's proposal for regional reform is implemented, this line will continue to involve citizens and organisations in the tasks of law enforcement that have previously been carried out by the authorities. It is also good that the Committee on Budgets took note of the Committee on the Environment's wish to have a secretariat for the climate panel. There are several such climate panels, scientific expert panels in the countries of the world, and as far as I know, the Finnish Climate Panel is about the only one that has worked without a permanent secretariat. I hope that this money will remain permanent. The biggest increase in appropriations was made by the Committee on Finance to finance national parks. As the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection points out, the number of visitors to parks is increasing. In ten years the number of visitors has increased to about double. As a Pirkanmaa person, I particularly welcome the EUR 150,000 from Lake Hellenjärvi and EUR 300000 from the development of seven national parks and the reduction of the debt to repair. This is well timed because in four years’ time, the Seven National Park will be 40 years old. However, this is only one-tenth of the repair debt which, overall, lies in the hiking and national park structures under the responsibility of Metsähallitus, and a further 70 million will be owed in cultural heritage sites. Well, second thing: I already said at the Debat that the Minister of the Finnish negotiating team Under the leadership of Tiilikainen worked well at the Katowice climate conference. It is great that Finland was there in the so-called High Ambition Coalition, which is one of the countries that said that the ambition of the countries' emission targets should be raised. It is also a good thing that, at the initiative of Prime Minister Sipilä, parties are now negotiating to increase Finland's own climate ambition, but nothing would have prevented us from starting this earlier. Three years ago, when the Paris Agreement was signed, it was clear that Finland's and the EU's and any country's emission commitments are not enough to keep climate change below two degrees, let alone close to one and a half. Until now, the government has refused to discuss the tightening of emission targets. It is a good thing that it starts now, but this would have really been important in the past, and the government has not even managed to introduce a reduction programme for subsidies favouring the use of fossil fuels, which, according to the budget book, amount to more than EUR 1 billion. All in all, according to the calculation by the Ministry of Finance, the environmentally harmful subsidies included in the budget book amount to more than EUR 2 billion. However, this would be the easiest way out of promoting climate protection and environmental protection. Mr President! Let me say something about indoor air problems: Representative Eloranta, who, like me, is also part of an indoor group of MPs, spoke of families who have come into a very bad situation when the family is sick at home. During this government, the small amount of money that has helped families in the worst situation has been removed. This appropriation should be reimbursed. I agree with Mr Hoskonen that there really is a lot wrong with our construction. We need to clarify liability issues in the legislation on construction, so that the person who makes the wolf and the second actually bears the cost of repairing and not his customers. The second thing we need is that our health care system recognises and recognises these diseases as real and does not treat people as if they were hypochondriacs, and in practice far too many people are about to be exposed — losing their jobs,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u102	Mr President! I'd be two representatives. Mr Hassi has now paid particular attention. Firstly, the opposition, and in particular the Greens, have been saying all along that this parliamentary term would have cut and weakened environmental issues. This is certainly not the case, because everything that has previously been invested in the environment, new protected areas, new measures, new Metso areas — none of them have been dismantled. So everything that has been done in the past already exists. The only thing that was at the beginning of this parliamentary term was the fact that more of these items were not set up, that is, this is the essential difference between what you have brought up. Second thing, then, this Creative. When it is said that there will be more controls on NGOs — indeed not, but in Creative, it is intended to focus on the fact that all decisions have a very wide range of public interest controls than they do today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u103	Mr President! Congressman Majala has confused two things. I was talking about budget cuts, Mrs Maijala was talking about the fact that the areas of the Metso protection programme have not decreased. Both of these are true. As far as public-interest control is concerned when decisions on environmental permits are concerned, it has always been the duty of the authorities to take decisions in accordance with the law, but nevertheless the legality of decisions has to be monitored. For example, the Supreme Administrative Court has clearly stated in its opinions that this is still needed and is one of the cornerstones of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u104	Mr President! I will soon be talking about what is actually being proposed in this budget and we will have it approved. But also on emissions reductions, climate targets, how different governments have aligned them. These objectives have therefore been tightened so that climate change can be mitigated, During the reign of Sipilä. During the last government, the targets were not tightened for Finland, but during the previous central government, these emission reductions and climate targets for Finland were then put forward. But that's it. What is particularly good about this budget is that the reduction in the national park correction debt, which has become very much feedback, is now being done. The funding for Metsähallitus nature services will be increased by EUR 1.9 million. It is particularly important for us to take into account that even with this money additional routes will be made available in the Hiidenporti and Oulanka National Parks and the Oulujärvi and Kylmäluoma hiking area. These have been commended for the area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u105	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u106	Madam President! In the next few years, the Baltic Sea region will face various pressures for change, which will require anticipation and social adjustment and carrying capacity, as well as international and regional cooperation. The good state of the marine environment, the vibrant marine environment and biodiversity are a prerequisite for the sustainability of the use of the Baltic Sea and its natural resources. The nutrient and solid load in the Baltic Sea and inland waters has been reduced by water and sea management measures in recent decades. However, load history and current load will not allow good inland and coastal water status to be achieved by 2027 without further measures. This is well understood in this budget. The Government proposes to launch a water improvement programme with an additional budget of EUR 15 million. I think it is very important to continue the underwater marine nature mapping programme in the Baltic Sea. This has already achieved very good results. Madam President! The number of sites under the responsibility of Metsähallitus is constantly increasing. I do not think that much more needs to be done on the part of Parliament, because they also involve the maintenance costs. I very much welcome the fact that EUR 250,000 is now being allocated to the development of the nature reserve in Patvinsuo and Ruuna, among others. I believe this money is needed. The next target should also be Koli National Park, the fourth most popular national park in Finland. I welcome the fact that almost EUR 7 million more is proposed for the promotion of water and environmental management than for this year. The Onkamo Lakes also contribute to this, creating a very good continuity for the important work that has already been done in the region. It also supports water rehabilitation projects to improve the natural reproduction of migratory fish, which I consider to be very important. For example, friends of the Saimaa salmonfish are exploring natural spawning areas in North Savo, North Karelia and South Savo, and this is very important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u107	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of the Environment and, above all, the Minister for the Environment for this proposal that we have now received good increases in appropriations for this whole environmental issue. First of all, the Metsähallitus side received important debt-repair payments. For us Laplanders, these are very important, because tourism is a very important industry for us, and the areas managed by Metsähallitus, especially the national parks, and their maintenance is very important. The fact that there are all the essential things in place is everything a and o. As a smoker, of course, I am very grateful that money was made available for the Nuorttijoki Bridge. It really needs to be able to cross the river near the border zone. Metsähallitus has many more protected areas than just national parks. There is a really big area that is currently being managed by Metsähallitus, which is the state's money. One of these targets is Korouoma Posio. It's got a target that's been getting more and more use. There is an ice climbing site, a known area, and now it has started to pretend that it would be really good to become a national park. You wouldn't need much money for that. It is essential and important that Korouoma is already a state-run region. There are many structures of Metsähallitus already in existence. Only the status should be changed. Well, I'm sure there'll be small costs after that, but for many other national parks, it's a pretty small amount of money. Mostly that the status could be changed there, that's Korouoma Posio. Then the next set, the mold schools. There's been a lot of talk about mold. I think it is very important now that this issue of mold should be brought to the public as an even bigger issue. In almost every Finnish municipality, home schools speak. These are especially small municipalities. When I am from Savukoski, our Savukoski, as in many other small municipalities in Lapland, should build a new school. More than EUR 1 million should be spent on building a school because of the mold problem. Each municipality has the same problem. This is a national, really big thing, which should now be raised as a really big factor and a topic for discussion as to what to do with this job. It is not going to work out that small municipalities are going bankrupt because of the problem of mold in schools. Energy has also been discussed on this environmental side, which is a very important issue. I would have liked to see more money earmarked for research and development. Of course, this is a matter on the side of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, but also for the environmental side, because in Finland, especially in Lappeenranta — In Lappeenranta, we have visited both the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Transport and Communications to get to know the activities of the university – there are really great plans for how we can develop energy in Finland in an environmentally friendly way. We should pay a great deal of attention to these, because these will enable us to save a great deal of environmental progress. It's a big, important thing. And then again: there was a debate just now with Mr Hassi — as I have discussed with many others here in the Chamber — about the fact that it has been said that we have had environmental degradation during this parliamentary term, a reduction in appropriations and so on. But it does not mean that any existing protection has been undermined; it has simply meant that no new protection has been created. In other words, environmental issues have remained at least at the same level as in previous periods. So nothing's been weakened. Now that Finland’s economy as a whole has been improved, these appropriations, including Metso, have now been improved. So during this parliamentary term, we have improved a great many things since the financial affairs of Finland have first been put in order. After all, the Finnish economy has now been put in order, so that the debt back has been broken, so that we can also pay greater attention to environmental issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u108	Mr President! The earth is not a gift from our parents. It's a gift from our children. That old saying, known to the Indians, is a good guide for climate policy. We all know that Finland must be carbon neutral and even have a negative carbon balance. Stopping global warming to 1.5 degrees is essential in order for our ball to last and survive. It does not matter how climate change is controlled. We need the know-how and the best resources of all mankind to do this, so that we can find the solutions to reduce climate change both ecologically and socially sustainablely. People often ask why Finland needs to do more in climate policy, why we need to be at the forefront. That debate was held here earlier today in the context of the debate. But it's actually obvious. If we are on a leaking boat, then it is not the question of who flutters, but everyone will do what they can, and those who are stronger, will do even more than those who are weaker. Finland as an economy and as a country, however, is stronger, and it is a question of someone also having to be a pioneer in these matters. We need a wide-ranging change towards a more environmentally friendly urban structure, a new approach to production, consumption and mobility. And we also need a cultural change that would lead us toward a lifestyle that consumes less material goods. Whether it is land use, housing or transport solutions, they must contribute to climate change mitigation. Public transport, light transport, dense residential and employment areas are at the heart of this, and the aim must be free of emissions. We could talk a lot about energy, about how it should be sustainable, and that is where we have more challenges. But when we think about these things, we need to know how to build that model in such a way that it is also socially sustainable. Here I would like us to be better able to combine different policies, such as employment policy and climate policy, because I believe that Finland, as a high-tech country and a country with high environmental expertise, could find, for example, significant export opportunities from climate change mitigation innovations. A few more words about national parks and hiking areas: They have also been an area in which we have actually been able to combine employment policy and environmental policy. In other words, we have had projects in which, as they say in Lapland, jobs have been carried out, for example, routes to national parks. We are currently using prison labour for certain types of repairs, and there are many other things. And these combinations of this kind we should be able to look for more, because in fact that section of the Ministry of the Environment's budget
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u109	Mr President! Today, a "Red Book" has been published. Finland has not managed to halt the decline of nature. Even half of our habitats are endangered. The variety of species is primarily threatened by forest regeneration and management measures, drainage, clearing of fields, construction and eutrophication of waters. There are clearly more endangered habitats in Southern Finland than in Northern Finland. There is a threat in traditional biotopes, forests, the Baltic Sea coast and the nature of the bogs. This study requires much more effective work on nature conservation. More soft forest management methods, more protected areas and support for the management of traditional landscapes are needed. There must be a substantial increase in the budget for the purchase of natural protection areas. I'm afraid so. They have been halved by the Sipilä government and the programme for the protection of the bogs has been abolished. In the light of the results now obtained, this is intolerable. There is a need for urgent investment in the Metso programme, the protection and restoration of bogs, wetlands, traditional biotopes and the fight against alien species. The good news is that in the government budget, the Baltic Sea and water protection will receive EUR 15 million under the water protection enhancement programme. We do not want algae porridge for children, but the Baltic Sea, where you can swim on beautiful summer days. Each region has its own challenges. It is important that Uusimaa also has a project seeking specific measures to reduce nutrient discharges in agriculture in cooperation with farmers. New water protection measures, such as nutrient recycling, must be promoted. The use of nutrient-binding vessel and collector plants should be favoured. Good experiences have also been gained with field littering. The gypsum binds the phosphorus in the field. Uusimaa has some facilities in the catchment area of the Vantaanjoki river in the area of gypsum distribution projects, but there are much wider needs in order to make gypsum distribution and many other activities available to more and more farmers. New recyclable fertilisers to improve soil condition and carbon stocks, e.g. by-products from the forest industry, are also an important means of reducing the use of artificial fertilisers. Small waters are an important part of Finland’s biodiversity. They provide habitats for many life - forms, including fish, birds and insects. Regrettably, there are very few small natural waters left, and most of the small natural waters have survived in national parks and protected areas. Man has shaped and built his environment, gutted rivers, piped small streams, and built mobile power stations. There are more than 200 hydropower plants in Finland, and there are thousands of dams that act as a barrier to fish migration. The construction of dams and water control projects have caused considerable damage to Finnish fish stocks and aquatic habitats in the wider sense. A fishing road strategy has been implemented to protect endangered migratory fish. The introduction of migratory fish into the river, which is made possible by the fishing roads, will help to strengthen their spawning potential, i.e. their natural growth. It is essential to speed up the construction of fishing routes. On the other hand, Uusimaa has a particularly large number of small-scale power stations and migration barriers that are not at the top of the strategy. The dismantling of mini-electric power stations and dams can be a viable alternative to the fishing road. In particular, Uusimaa has a number of such sites. They should be systematically investigated in the context of the small water survey in Uusimaa. The benefits and disadvantages of dismantling dams have not been explained anywhere, and Uusimaa would be a suitable first pilot site for surveys. The Water Act needs to be reformed in such a way that fishing obligations also apply to old plants. An important report has just been produced from the Ministry of Justice on the imposition of a fishing obligation on the holder of a water management permit. On the basis of the study, legislative changes can be introduced immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u110	Madam President! I very much welcome the fact that the committee has proposed EUR 2 million for the continuation of the wood construction programme. Funding will enable development work to be carried out in areas such as the construction of cities condensing with specific issues in the use of wood and the use of large wood structures, the formation of regional centres of expertise and increased communication and training work related to changed building regulations. With regard to wood construction, it is important that it should contribute to the construction of new and complementary materials. I can also agree with the committee that this highlights the positive effects on climate and health that can be achieved. From the point of view of carbon sequestration, the use of wood should target as long-lived products as possible, such as wood construction. A comprehensive reform of land use and construction legislation launched as a parliamentary preparatory work is also important, with the aim of responding to changes in the operating environment, such as climate and energy issues, regional diversification and demographic changes, growth and urbanisation of urban areas, the transformation of mobility and digitalisation and changes in administrative structures. Ways will be developed to ensure a good living environment and to improve the planning of growing urban areas and depopulation areas. That's an excellent thing to prepare for. Furthermore, as the committee has pointed out and has already been in this Chamber several times this evening in the debate, the important issue is this improvement in the quality of construction, to which the committee has rushed this implementation of the Healthy Spaces 2028 action programme. It is sad that our construction level has somehow deteriorated, that a few years after the renovation the building is banned or there are serious indoor air problems. This is not sustainable development or construction, under any circumstances, that it is important to invest in t Er, er... er... er... er... er... er... er... Finally, Mr President, I would like to raise one point. In the neighboring municipality of my municipality, Nivala, is located the Hitura copper mine, an old mine that went bankrupt, and the rest of the mine’s work was seriously delayed. Now, in this budget too, EUR 16.3 million has been proposed for the second phase of the closure of this Hitura mine, which will enable these serious threats to the environment related to the cessation of mining activities to be put in order. This is a very good budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u111	Madam President! I shall continue the debate on climate policy in this Chamber during the day. The Finnish forest owner is a significant decision maker in terms of carbon emissions and carbon sinks in our country, a significant decision maker when deciding on his own forest, its use and management. The average Finnish forest owner owns about 30 hectares of forest. About 66 tonnes of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere per year is stored in such a forest farm. The forest owner is a lot a guard compared to many Finns who do not have their own forest. The forest owner produces valuable ecosystem services. It is worth taking care of the regeneration of forests and the growing condition of the trees and therefore the ability to absorb carbon from the climate. We should encourage those forest owners who do not currently manage their forests to manage their own forests better than they do at present. Some of the economic forest seems to have been forgotten — completely forgotten to its own devices. Wood construction is a good way to bind coal for a long time. We know that traditionally built log houses last for hundreds of years. In order for suitable wood to continue to be available, household forests need to be managed well, and incentives are needed in Finland. Mr President! I would like to thank the committee for the allocation for the renovation of national parks and hiking sites. As has already been said several times here, the number of visitors has increased and, as the use increases, the structures are becoming more efficient and more maintenance and refurbishment is needed. It is important that the quality of our hiking areas and park remains high and that no damage is caused due to the poor structural condition. I am very happy about the small renovations that have been made in our home area in recent years. For example, Konttäinen's stairs are now being improved, and then the parking area of Hossa National Park, the Cruel-Olky, has become unhelpably small because of the increasing number of visitors, and that too will now be improved and expanded. I will take this matter of raising the status of the camping area to a national park, as Mrs Maijala has just said. Hossa National Park is an excellent example of this, although that Hossa National Park also includes this status of the National Park of the centenary year and its familiarity. I am very much in favour of turning Korouoma into a national park. This magnificent gorge valley does meet the requirements of the National Park. This new park would strengthen the nature tourism area in our region, increase the visibility of the country in the national parks. But then I'm going to take the next status out of the national parks. In other words, Metsähallitus has carried out a comprehensive study to raise the Oulanka-Paanajärvi National Park couple to the UNESCO World Heritage Site. This park couple in Kuusamo on the Finnish side and then in North Vienna, that side of Russia, is a good destination in that it is a destination in two countries, and it would then require an agreement between states. Now it seems that, according to messages from the Russian side, there is a common understanding that this should be taken forward, and I am asked why there is no answer from Finland. I would like this UNESCO World Heritage Project to move forward in good agreement between two countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u112	Madam President! The threat assessment of Finnish habitats published today is harshly readable. Almost half of our habitats are endangered. Nearly 60 per cent of the habitats in Southern Finland are threatened, and in Northern Finland the figure is 32 per cent. The most endangered are the traditional biotypes, all of which are at risk of extinction. Three quarters of forest habitats and 57% of bogs are endangered. These are startling figures and call for urgent action. As Mr Karimäki well explained above, the main causes of habitat loss were considered to be forestry activities, drainage, grubbing-up of fields, construction and eutrophication of waters. Climate change has also become more important, and the most important reason is indeed forestry measures. Well, it is, of course, a good thing that, when the reasons are known, it is also easy to take corrective action as to the direction in which environmental, nature conservation and forestry policies should be directed. This recent Habitat Threat Report further underscores the need to invest more in nature conservation. It is not surprising in itself, because we have already known how diversity is dwindling all the time. Unfortunately, however, this government has roughly halved the money for nature conservation. The spending limits for the whole of nature conservation were first 38 million in the previous term, and then we Greens were able to negotiate a level increase to 53 million, while the current government first cut the amount to 18.5 million, but fortunately it has now gradually been raised to 26.6 million last year. However, the government has had to admit that Finland will not remain in its UN commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020. When Mrs Maijala raised the point here that we have criticised the fact that the level of nature protection has deteriorated, that how it can be weakened, when no protected areas in itself have been dismantled, but the problem has been that they have not been set up at the same rate as before, the problem arises from the very fact that we know that diversity is dwindling all the time. We need action to maintain biodiversity, the diversity of species, the diversity of habitats. We need a restoration work: for example, the traditional biotopes in today's assessment indeed stated that they are all threatened with extinction. They require active care measures, and it requires resources as much as construction. The drainages are threatening our nature. Then we will have to invest more and more to maintain that level of diversity. During this reign it has not survived, and indeed the government has had to admit that it will not be able to enter into this UN commitment. The need for conservation efforts will be further enhanced by the major deforestation targets that have been set. They are a threat to diversity. That is why even when the old protected areas themselves have not been dismantled, we have not been able to make progress at the pace of keeping biodiversity at the same level, not to mention being able to improve what is needed. Another thing, of course, that this government has done is that environmental management powers have been consistently reduced from a small point of view and legislation relating to planning and permit processes has been streamlined through the Government's terminology, with the result that the influence of the citizens and non-governmental organisations concerned on land use plans in our environment and on various projects that are heavily changing the environment has been weakened. That is why the criticism we have made of the fact that this period has clearly reduced the level of conservation, unfortunately, is true.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u113	Mr President! You've lost your mind, and you've made a slave. Unfortunately, other parties in their climate-realism have started to run in competition, that which party now surely loves its environment the most, to the extent that this has now led to realism being out of control. And that means that it is not the interests of Finland and it is not the interests of the world or the interests of the environment. Every party in this Chamber will take climate and environmental issues seriously. This is indeed a gift to us, this nature and this earth, and it is our job to cultivate and preserve it. According to Eurostat, Finland was the country that reduced the EU's most climate emissions in 2017. Finland has already done its part and much more. True Finns demand that Finland does not make emission reductions more and faster than other EU countries. With the exception of Finland, other EU countries have not reached the Paris climate targets, and I do not understand why Finland does not require Germany, Romania, Bulgaria and Poland would at least limit its coal production more than at present. Finland’s ambition turns against us, and in global terms it is ineffective. It will only accelerate the industry's escape from Finland, resulting in more unemployment, more Chinese production and more emissions. Global emissions are caused by the population explosion and the relocation of industrial production to developing countries with high fossil energy sources, from which goods are transported elsewhere using oil. The fact that the polluter countries China and India were classified as developing countries in the Paris climate agreement is a real disgrace to the agreement. It is indeed good in this area of environmental governance to increase wood construction, to which Mr Pylväski expressed his opinion. When we grow wood, it binds coal, and wood construction is indeed much more environmentally friendly than concrete construction, for example. This is a good thing, and the Finns are also in favour of this. But if we really want to reduce emissions from the world now, then we need to tackle the population explosion. It's really such a big problem, and once we get this under control, a lot of other problems could be solved. I would also like to take an example here of the fact that a lot of mistakes have been made in this environmental rage, such as the energy-saving lamp. An environmentally friendly light bulb was banned. In Finland, however, not much lights are needed in the summer, and in the winter it heats up, and glass and iron can be recycled, so the energy-saving lamp was forced to take, which was hazardous waste, which cost a huge amount of money. Then it was admitted that this was a very good business for some. I would like to highlight that climate reality here. Let's keep our senses involved in these decisions. It is an environmental act to keep industry in Finland. It is an environmental act that actually tackles the causes that pollute this environment. It's an environmental act to make the polluter countries clean up their mess. Fortunately, the Finns of Finland are also in this administrative sector, in the administrative sector of this environment, that sense and that moderation and that realism. Finland certainly needs the Finns of Peru. Finnish industry certainly needs basic Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u114	Madam President! Mrs Majala, in her earlier speech, drew attention to an interesting new technology. In fact, the Lappeenranta University of Technology has developed a method for producing fuel and food from air and so to speak, from scratch. Many people may think this is an incredible claim, but it is true. This is a process where, using a renewable energy source, such as solar or wind power, hydrogen is first extracted from tap water through an electrolysis process and then carbon dioxide is recovered from the atmosphere in a chemical process. These will continue to be combined with the energy generated by this renewable energy source in the process into a synthetic hydrocarbon molecule, e.g. methane. That's part of the hydrogen and carbon. This can then be further processed by different methods, for example into fuel, such as diesel, Fischer-Tropsch, or by combining nitrogen atoms with this molecule, a synthetic protein can be created. This method is now being developed by the Lappeenranta University of Technology, Wärtsilä and the Energy Community of the Land of Nebraska. And the hope is that this will provide some sort of solution with a very fast timetable, a solution suitable for production, fuel production and possibly food production. It is clear that, if and when this method becomes more common, it will make a significant contribution to the global problem of CO2 emissions and the food problem. So in this process carbon is recovered from the atmosphere — it is very environmentally friendly in that sense — and then stored in the molecule that is produced in this process.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u115	Mr President! Firstly, the level of nature protection has not deteriorated during this parliamentary term. And now a few arguments for this statement. Firstly, environmental issues belong to all administrative sectors. They are certainly not just the sector of the Ministry of the Environment, whose budgets we are looking at here, but now that we are starting to talk about the environment, we have to look at the whole thick yellow book: every single paragraph has taken environmental issues into account. In all construction, environmental issues must be taken into account, in all development, in research — everything that usually exists today — environmental issues must always be taken very carefully into account today. So it's really not about small things. Environmental issues really belong to all of us. And one of the great influences here is, as has been revealed here, we landowners, we forest owners and landowners. We have a great opportunity to influence the state of the environment, biodiversity. It is a good thing that biodiversity has been brought up several times today, because it can be given greater attention, and I hope that we landowners and forest owners will be helped to find those diverse small sites in our own forests even better. It does not necessarily have to start buying any protected areas for the state, but it is quite a practical matter that almost all of us forest owners have our own protected areas. They are not recorded anywhere, but we each have certain points that we never beat up, which we never touch in any way. They're one of those biodiversity targets. And if this issue could be raised in some way, to help landowners, how to go forward with this — a great many landowners just do not want to bring these things up, for there is such a situation ahead that people are then afraid that someone will come and buy as protected areas. It's my own protected area. No one else has to touch it. Then there's a lot of talk about traditional biotopes. For example, I myself have many ten hectares of traditional biotopes. They are agricultural subsidies that my sheep currently manage. It is truly regrettable that it is quite difficult today to obtain traditional biotope decisions. It should be pointed out, particularly in the next programming period, which is currently being worked on and done on the agricultural side, that it would be easier to create a traditional biotope area in order to get along with it. It has been made very bureaucratic, problematic and difficult. It should be possible to do so in such a way that non-active farmers could do more of these traditional biotopes. Then the third thing we have talked about today is fish. It is good that it has come to the fore, because the most important factor in this too is the owners of water law, i.e. the shareholders. Shareholders are the main influence on how we can renovate these currents, i.e. small streams and targets. After all, the owner decides what is done in that area, and when we cooperate with them, we can achieve a lot of results. In addition, it is good that these current water projects have now been mobilised. And these small dams, which we were talking about, I am in favour of them being dismantled, because their energy production is very low compared to the extent to which they hinder the movement and movement of fish. From the fish side, especially from the environmental point of view, I also bring out these cormorants. The cormorants have grown out of proportion. In 86 years there were 20 cormorants in Finland — now, according to Luke’s study, there are nearly 27,000 of them, and they cause a lot of problems for our biodiversity. For example, I believe that a significant proportion of salmon in the Tornion River is being sucked into the mouths of cormorants. So I hope that we can move forward together. Biodiversity is our common concern. And as far as I am concerned, Santeri Alkio, the nobility of the centre, once taught us that we should leave nature to our children in a better condition than we have received it ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u116	Mr President! The renovation of the hiking structures of the beloved national parks is considerable. Longwoods decay, hangover bridges are in danger of collapse. A little help is now being made by the committee with an additional budget of nearly EUR 4 million to improve the opportunities for camping in national parks. Among them are Torronsuo, Liesjärvi, Urho Kekkonen National Park and Repovesi. A project to increase unhindered habitats is also very necessary. Next season we have to invest in national parks. Porkkala also needs a national park. New hiking routes have just been opened in this marine natural pearl. This was possible when Porkkala received funding to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Finland. The good development of the area would be secured as a national park. There are many points in favour of Carrotola as a national park. Porkkala is the western marine pearl of the green circle of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. It is a popular camping area where you can walk on cliffs, swim in swimming places and by boat in the archipelago. The new national park would strengthen the green circle of the capital region threatened by building pressures. Marine nature, bird caves, cliffs, coastal meadows and underwater ridges must be spared for posterity. The establishment of Porkkala National Park will ensure the best possible nature values in the region and will allow for better recreational use. The National Park would benefit not only nature but also residents of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, tourists and entrepreneurs. Nature organisations have suggested that the national park should be established in the early stages on the territory of the municipalities of Kirkkonummi, Siuntio and Inkoo. According to the proposal, there would be 1,600 hectares of land and 8000 hectares of water in the national park. The National Park was founded in Porkkala in Kirkkonummi as early as 1938. The park was located on Stora Träskö Island, but it was closed 20 years later in connection with the return of the rental area of Porkkala. Porkkala National Park would be a unique set of swastikas, indoor bays and seal loans. The circle of history would close when the national park, which was closed after the wars, was restored to its value.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u117	Mr President! The importance of national parks — their importance and importance for us Finns as recreational and hiking sites, but also their tourist significance in many parts of Finland, has been well highlighted in many speeches. It is good, therefore, that the committee now allocated additional money to Metsähallitus' nature services for the dismantling of the repair debt related to the construction of national parks, among other things. In fact, it is quite descriptive that they are quite named that how much to which national park, which certainly indicates that the members of the committee and section have had that information and a message from the citizens about how much more money is needed here at the moment. I believe that, in addition to these national parks, what was specifically named there is a need for all national parks, and I hope that the money from national parks will continue to be increased. One problem has been that when new national parks have been set up, the budget has not taken into account the spending money they will need. Perhaps the cost of setting up has still been taken into account in the budget, but it has not been taken into account that the park should then be constantly left there in the budget, i.e. to add an adequate budget to ensure that the infrastructure required by the national park remains in order and can be developed. As Mrs Parviainen mentioned here, for example, how in Hossa, the fact that the camping area receives the status of a national park does have a significant impact on how popular it is and how people find it. That is also why it is important that this network of national parks is further developed and diversified, and that is where the Porkkala highlighted by Mr Karimäki would be a good addition. We know that there are other areas where there is still a need for new national parks. At the same time, I would also like to thank the government for adding this small but important sum of 100,000 to the ceiling protection budget. It will make it possible for novel protection projects not to break up in vain, but to be able to continue and to seek new funding there. Of course, it was also necessary to increase the operating money to the Finnish Environment Agency, as well as this additional money to finance the subsidy for organisations and then the salary expenses of the Finnish Climate Panel secretariat. Thank you very much for these. Although I have just criticised strongly, and I still think that the budget for nature conservation money is far too low in relation to the need for it, there are also these small mirths of joy in this budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u118	Madam President! Indeed, previous speakers have made good speeches in relation to the importance of national parks. Mr Mikkonen spoke well on this same subject. Indeed, we have a number of such projects across the country at the moment — or not in actual fact in the form of a project, but we still have hopes of living — that new national parks can be set up. I'm sure the farthest is Porkkala National Park, which was discussed even when we made a decision on Hossa National Park a little over two years ago here in Parliament. I believe that there are certain reasons for this, but the problem is that maintaining the infrastructure in these parks requires the working capital and every time a new park is established, it is then out of the cake that maintains the structures of the old parks. Now, however, the Parliament's Committee on Finance decided to make these additions, which is a very good thing. My region’s national parks, Pyhä-Häki National Park and Salamajajärvi National Park are allocated additional funds, which will be there more than necessary. In both of them, the number of visitors has been increasing all along. This reflects the fact that the popularity of this type of nature tourism is constantly increasing and that this is important in regional policy. This is really important for the tourism industry in all parts of the country where these national parks exist, and that is why it is, I believe, the common will of all parties in Parliament. But we must be able to look for more long-term solutions to this national park's financial position, especially if and when decisions are taken to create new parks, and I believe that it is quite possible and even desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u119	Mr President! It is wonderful that Mrs Maijala quoted the wise idea of the embryo that nature should be left to children in a better condition than we ourselves have had. Unfortunately, this is not the case at the moment. It is precisely this nature threat study published today that shows, as has already been said several times here, that almost all traditional agricultural biotopes are endangered and about three-quarters of forest habitats are endangered and more than half of the habitats in the swamps have grown and the threat of habitats has increased over the last ten years. However, we are committed by means of international agreements to halt the loss of biodiversity. At this rate and at these levels of funding, which this government has granted to nature conservation less than previous governments, this will not be possible. I was also delighted to hear Mr Kopra speak on this way in Lappeenranta of producing water from hydrogen and without CO2 fuels with solar energy. This is an example of promising innovation, which we do not yet know how important it will become in the world. But it has the potential to become significant, and it is also an example of how things can be developed in a small Finland that may have global significance, and also that climate protection is not primarily about giving up everything nice, but about starting to do things in a new and smarter way. In this debate, the light bulb mentioned earlier by Mr Huhtasaari and the ban on the sale of the light bulb are also a positive example, contrary to what Mr Huhtasaari said. In fact, when the ban on the sale of light bulbs began, there were very few LED lamps in the shops. Their maximum power was 1 watt, they were very dim and expensive. Nobody bought them. But this decision to ban light bulbs, which was then very unpopular, created a market for LED lamps. In a couple of years, their market share had risen to tens of percent, technology developed very rapidly, prices fell rapidly, and they are currently viable throughout the world. With this decision, the EU has done the world a great service in the development of energy efficiency in lighting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u120	Mr President! When I am not here during the next parliamentary term to discuss the budget, nor this section, I wanted to draw attention to two issues in the light of the debate: The first relates to the debate on housing policy, the reasons why there are problems, where there are problems. During this debate, solutions were sought to address the problems of the lack of housing support and the need to increase it, or the fact that current housing funding should be provided through its interest rates or other similar procedures, loan periods and similar procedures, to seek solutions — housing problems, in this case problems that are the result of extremely high house prices, which are extremely high, very high. When I have been pulling a group for less than a year trying to draw a picture of what has happened in Finland's regional development and what is happening, on this basis my message here is that as long as and in the situation when Finland's regional concentration continues the pace it continues in some centres and concentration at the moment, you can increase housing support no matter how much higher than it is over 2 billion, what it is at the moment, no matter how much you try to come up with new interest method or loan periods or so away, they do not help, they do not help. At present, the rise in house prices in our capital region is one of the fastest growing house prices in Europe. Unless there is a more balanced approach to this regional development, this misery will continue. And who suffers? Those people with the lowest income who have to come here to get a job here, who often have to sell their own homes there. In Kivijärvi, 15 years ago, a detached house of less than 100,000 euros was built, and now that a person is forced to leave the capital region for work, he will receive a maximum of 10,000 to 20,000 euros from the apartment of less than 100,000 euros when he tries to sell it there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u123	Mr President! It was a pleasure to listen to the Vice-President. Not many of us can do that. An example from the representative, Mr Kopra, told us that Finland has opportunities to participate and do big things now in this area. But I will take the example that we are not now in need of that new technology, but must return to tradition. These endangered traditional biotypes. We can all have a share in those efforts by our natural friends. For example, for the maintenance of meadows, fields, flood meadows and sharks, we must have the skills, we must have the skills to reap. If there is no skill, then it must be acquired, learned to reap with a scythe. This is a very good reason to learn and join in these efforts. For example, the maintenance of meadows in the wilderness of Näränga. There are sheep there to keep the farm meadows in order. They need sheepherders every summer. After all, it has been made a fine holiday pattern, that is, a week in the wilderness farm as a sheepherder, and at the same time the meadows of the farm are in the right condition. Shepherds are also needed to ensure that it does not happen like that of Minister Tiilikainen that half of the meadowkeepers, or sheep, were eaten by a bear. The same danger is there, too, in Näränkävaara. And then in the Oulanka river estuary every summer there is a willow where the meadows are reaped, so there is a need for riveting skills and there is an opportunity for everyone to participate. Also, work could be done in the same way as in the Alps in the care of alpine meadows. There, along with the young ones, the older men swing and put the alpine meadows in order. A joint effort and effort to deal with these traditional bio-types. In this respect, I believe that a modern experience of folklore could be made more and more modern for Finns. Everyone would take time and go back to nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u124	Mr President! Representative Parviainen spoke of bears as having killed sheep in the traditional biotype region, and everyone knows that bears and wolves have killed more than a hundred of the people who care for the traditional biotype region from me. But we will talk more about fraud tomorrow at the administrative branch of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Now I'd like to raise the issue of the forest side. We have been discussing forest fellings today, and that is what I want to say here, however, that although forest felling is now increasing, it is certainly not harmful to nature or to the climate, but in the reverse as a whole. Over the past 50 years, Finland's forest growth has doubled. And why has it doubled? It has doubled because it has been treated because it has been increased and increased by nursing. Consider, for example, the carrot ground: if you sow the ground of carrots, and do not thin it, and do not take care of it, then you will not be able to lift up any carrots from there, and get an edible carrot. The forest is also in the same way: if we want good sawn wood, we have to treat it, we have to cut it, we have to thin it, and so on. Still from the forests of Finland, do you know that more seedlings are planted per tree felled in Finland? Finland is truly a world-class country in these matters. Now, even the final studies show that our nature really can handle the amount of felling we have very well. Then we should think more about how we can increase the use of fibrewood. In Lapland, we really have the problem that we have a huge number of young forests to deal with. It is good that on the forest side we are about to show how we can increase Finland's forest area even further. The essential point I want to make here is to support the regeneration of these under-productive forests. It was left out of the Kemera support during the last parliamentary term, and it is indeed hoped that the renewal of under-productive forests will now be added to this increase in forest area, because these forests really need reform so that we can improve their growth and thus increase the Finnish carbon sequestration area further.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u125	Mr President! The Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen, very well highlighted the importance of combating climate change in his speech. Finland cannot hide behind big countries in climate policy. It's just like this. We don't have a planet B. Minister of the Environment Tiilikainen has just returned from Katowice’s climate conference, where a lean agreement was reached. Of course, it's better than a fat fight. The world received common rules for monitoring and calculating emission reductions in relation to the Paris climate agreement. Unfortunately, however, several details remained open and the level of ambition still needs to be raised. The International Climate Panel (IPCC) recently published its report on the risks to the world if the world warms up by more than 2 degrees. Corals die, sea level rises, Greenland melts. The promises made by the Paris Convention on Climate Change are not enough even for this 2°C, let alone for the 1.5°C that we need to reach, because this limit would provide more certainty for the living conditions on this planet and for all the inhabitants of the country in food supply. It is therefore very important that all parties jointly commit themselves here in Finland to reduce climate emissions and commit to more stringent targets. Green targets are that we get rid of coal, fuel oil and peat by 2030 and that Finland will be carbon neutral in 2030. It is often said that we want to secure a better world for our children and grandchildren, but we already notice extreme weather phenomena. In the summer, it can rain out of proportion or be incredibly hot. Hurricanes are spreading around the world. We are precisely the generation that faces the effects of this climate change and we are the generation that must now take action. Technology and innovation certainly offer great opportunities. I hope, for example, that carbon dioxide can be used to produce other raw materials. Representative Kopra reported on a progressive study by the University of Lappeenranta. The potential of the circular economy is also considerable. One's waste is the other's raw material. In the past, Mrs Maijala referred to this state budget book as having to take full account of the environment, and this is the case. As we Greens put it, the state budget must remove subsidies that are harmful to the environment. We also have a plastic tax and a flight tax in our repertoire.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u126	Mr President! On the one hand, it has been said that technology has a major role to play and an opportunity to be able to combat climate change, but that forest owners and farmers also play a crucial role in how we combat climate change and also play a role in ensuring that diversity does not disappear. The fact that traditional biotypes are one of our most endangered habitats has already been highlighted. They are all identified as a threat, and farmers play an important role in it. It is quite clear that we need to have the support structures in order to do so, because it requires a lot of work when we take out pastures and make pastures and build genuine and do things like that. It must also, of course, be in order to provide the support it provides, and it must be easy to apply for and so forth. But farmers also have a major role to play when we consider how arable land can bind coal, and we need to develop the methods by which arable land is better able to bind coal. After all, money has now been allocated to this research, and that is extremely important. The role of forest owners is equally important in how we ensure that carbon is committed to our forests, that forests act as a carbon reserve. On the other hand, they are very important in how our diversity develops, because most of our endangered species are forest species. And when Mrs Majala said here that more wood is growing than before, that there is no concern as to how much we are pounding, I do disagree with this. Although the tree is growing, it is today that we have been able to read about how our forest habitats and forest habitats are increasingly threatened. We cannot protect all forests, it is quite clear, and no one has ever done so, and we must ensure that forest management activities are carried out, because it is also important that we get good quality wood, which can then be used for wood construction, which would be an excellent target for the forest, because there the carbon stock remains for a long time. But we must also ensure that our forest management methods are such that the diversity of economic forests is better preserved. We must ensure that there are sufficient savings trees left there. We must see to it that there are enough decay trees, including stiff decay trees. We must ensure that we leave the wetlands and other areas alone. We must ensure adequate protection zones. We need to make sure that there are game weeds there, so that the game animals too can thrive there. And that the forest owners would prolong their logging cycle,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u127	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Vice-President Pekkar for his very heavy, profound and expert speech. When we talk about climate change and combating it, we must take account of the whole. I understand the importance of forest diversity, and I believe that today's farmers also want to play their part. But I would like us to analyse the speech by Vice-President Pekkarinen once again, because unfortunately we will not be able to listen to it many times again. I hope that you will read carefully in the Minutes what he was trying to communicate to us. What is the cost of this migration if we also consider how it will affect climate change when Finland is being built twice? I would like to ask you Greens how you have thought about how high you have prioritised the diversity of forests here in the capital region? When the Helsinki region is expanded, when Espoo is expanded, how will the diversity of forests be taken into account? I will return to this speech by Mr Pekkarinen. He took the example that if someone from Kinnula or what the locality was now, as he mentioned, has to sell their house for which they have paid EUR 100,000 15 years ago, and good if they get EUR 30,000 or 40000 today for it, and if they then move here to southern Finland and buy a home plot in Espoo for example, then they will have to pay EUR 220,000 just for the property. In other words, when comparing these housing costs, you have to consider what they are made of. They consist specifically of land prices. When a new detached house is built in Central Ostrobothnia, today its median price is perhaps 300,000 plots, and here in Southern Finland it costs 500,000. And that difference is precisely due to land prices. This issue should also be reviewed and taken into account when calculating how much migration causes emissions and what it costs to build Finland twice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u128	Mr President! Competitiveness is a whole. For example, Stora Enso once closed down factories in Finland, but Sweden did not because Sweden kept its own currency. We have also been selling property since the 1990s: national property, state companies and other national assets, and some of them have been very bad shops. There are many things that affect competitiveness. One of them is these logistics costs. For example, energy taxes affect the competitiveness of our energy-intensive export sector: electricity and other energy taxes must be reduced to the minimum level in the EU. If we want to support our export sector, we will also take into account logistics costs. I wonder, though, at the city centre that they are punishing an ordinary person with a normal car who lives in rural areas at high prices of housing costs and high prices of gas tax. Why on earth do you not support rural areas and rural areas because a car is necessary there? Finland accounts for 0.1 per cent of global CO2 emissions. We can serve as a good example of a modern society that smartly reconciles economic and environmental aspects. But global emissions are caused by population explosions and the relocation of industrial production to developing countries with high levels of fossil energy. For example, in Poland, coal accounts for 92 % of electricity production, in Bulgaria 90 %, in Romania 90 %, in Denmark 48 % and in Germany 46 %, by the way, still supports lignite production in eastern Germany, whereas in Finland, coal accounts for only 6.7 % of electricity production. However, in the EU burden-sharing, the emission reduction targets for non-ETS countries where coal accounts for around 90% of electricity production are as follows: Bulgaria 0, Romania 2, Poland 7, while Finland's reduction needs are 39%. And when I just said that Finland's carbon dioxide emissions represent 0.1 per cent of global emissions, why are we pious here and punishing ordinary people and not strengthening the competitiveness of our companies? When Olkiluoto 3 starts, for example, cut emissions as much as our total transport emissions will be if it is produced with coal. The Finns have presented climate duties because we want to have a global impact on emissions. Finland should be in the EU... There's always talk of being at the tables that you can influence. - Well, then let's get on with it. Let us begin to demand that those countries that pollute be made to pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u129	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u238	Minister Mykkänen, reply for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u247	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u311	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u324	The general debate on section 26 of the administrative branch of the Ministry of the Interior, which was suspended earlier today, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u395	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u398	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u404	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u428	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u429	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u434	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u436	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u437	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u450	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u454	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u455	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u464	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u465	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u469	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u470	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u471	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u472	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u473	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u474	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u475	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u476	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u477	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u478	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u480	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u481	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u482	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u483	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u484	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u485	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u486	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u487	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u488	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u489	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u490	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u492	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u493	Madam President! I was already asking about this at the debat, but when it was such a short time, I thought I'd go on. We have an online police officer set up to guard a very important task that such hate speech does not come, but yes it is the target group of the Finns. I have received death threats: one from the Nazis, that is, from the neo-Nazis, and the Muslims, probably more than a dozen. But if I judge the Nazis in any way on the Internet, I think no one will say anything about it, but if Muslims do what they do, the Internet police will soon find them there. In time, I wrote a sentence that Hesari used and put it on Facebook, and I was convicted of it. So the I.P.D. is very specific about these things. A few other flaws. That's where Congressman Eestilä said about traffic police surveillance. Crossing a few miles — immediately a note, four kilometers, a note on your hand. Yes, human mistakes will be punished. But there are such crimes as mass crimes, which include bicycle theft and such smaller ones. They are treated as large masses. The police won't even process them, even though it's consciously done. If you take a bicycle from an elderly person, it is quite valuable in relation to his income. These are forgotten, but on such occasions you will take a very precise line in traffic. Let me give you an example. Overload charges are unscrupulous. For up to 200 kilos in the front car of a log load, you get a fine. It's a log. It can certainly be done because of a human error, but it can result in a third fine for a two-month ban on driving, away from the business. In other words, these mishaps in these matters, the real deliberate crimes that are being committed quite deliberately, they are being forgotten. But human error is dealt with with with a severe hand. That is what I am wondering, and I would have liked to have asked the Minister about it again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u494	Madam President! In their own alternative budget, the Finns of Peru propose clear improvements to Finnish security. Ensuring the security of citizens is a central task of the state. All aspects of society will suffer if security in our country is disrupted. Let me give you a few examples of our proposals. We would like to add EUR 25 million to the police, and we want the police to be able to spend more time investigating crimes that they are now unable to release resources for. There are a lot of so-called dark crimes in which the police do not use their working hours because the resources are not enough, and these crimes are those where the sentences are so small that they do not think it is worth the stakes or it is not possible to put them in. However, this sends a signal to society that even a little more serious crimes can be dealt with in society than a dog does, because the police do not have time to investigate them. We also require a permanent increase in the number of police officers to 7,500 by 2025. This can be achieved by increasing the number of police training from 400 to 400 quickly. In addition, we need other facilitations in the police training system, such as a little facilitation of language requirements, in order to obtain sufficient high-quality trainees in education. In particular, we also expect more money to be invested in combating the shadow economy. More resources must also be made available to investigate and prevent cybercrime and to combat sexual crimes. Mr President! The total cost of asylum seekers has still not been clarified. The True Finns have long required that the government clarify them and publish them without delay. In the field of immigration policy, Finns require scale and cost savings. We also require the government to implement its own asylum policy programme drawn up and adopted in 2015. This programme includes, among other things, Finland's call for strong external border controls in the EU, the asylum seeker's own activity as a condition for receiving grants and the setting up of return centres for those who have received a negative asylum decision. Sir, where are those return centers? Why haven't they been set up yet? This is from the government's own programme. It would not be too much of a requirement for the government to implement them. In reception operations, the reception allowance must be reduced to a level that does not constitute a factor of attraction to Finland. High service levels attract people who do not even need international protection to Finland, and that is not in anyone's interest. The Finns Party proposes that the government develop clear indicators, criteria, maximum duration and other tools for monitoring integration in order to be able to see where we are going. This is needed because integration has largely failed. Mr President! True, Finns also want to add money to this immigration activity. We would like to increase EUR 10 million to introduce an enhanced return programme. We require the expulsion of illegally staying persons and the abolition of their municipal services. If expulsion fails, illegal persons should be detained. This would send a clear message to those people that you cannot stay illegally in Finland. Mr President! Finally, no party has in its shadow budget the same euro investments in Finnish security as the Finns of Peru. Not to mention the measures. Yet the alternative of the Finns is not expensive, on the contrary. On the whole, next year we would take EUR 170 million less debt than the government. This is patriotic politics, if that's what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u495	Madam President! Representative Myllykoski does not intend to wander the lands of the shadows but wanted to send a message to the Minister that, as his party colleague said three words: Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, so the representative Myllykoski wants to say drugs, drugs, drugs. This problem has exploded in our hands, and I would have liked this yellow booklet to have had something to do with this problem and the scale of the scale in which we are currently in Finnish society. I wish we could harness an online drug dog into this country. I will therefore propose whether the government, this government, which has good views for the future, could see that in its final amending budgets it could increase even more control over the organisation of drug trafficking via the Internet. We have online cops, but now we need to have the expertise to have these few specific programming platforms we have over there. So these days, you don't buy drugs, you bring drugs home, you make appointments. There are prices, quality in sight, and that is how we trade especially in sparsely populated areas, already in our neighborhoods. Cars are parked in the most amazing places where you would never think anyone would park the car. It's a meeting place. Let's throw our jogging shoes at the junction as a clue that where to get them, from a mile away and so on. That would be important. However, as a second point, I would have asked Mr Mykkäs — but I was no longer able to speak to the debator — how it has been estimated that we, the game protection measures, the hunters and the authorities, would be able to carry out this large number of alarms so that our authorities, the police, would not be so tied up with large predatory sightings. So they are instructed to go at least twice with the lids of the boiler to evict them, possibly from the nearby housing rig, and then the removal procedure comes. So I would have asked the Minister what to do together at the Ministry of the Environment, Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u496	Madam President! The Committee on Finance has made an excellent contribution to the report by the school police and the Ankkuri activities. The amount of EUR 2.5 million for preventive action by the police for 2019 is to be welcomed. Anchor operations are preventive so that the situation of children and young people can be improved in a holistic way, together with police, youth and social work and schools. I have been able to work in comprehensive school at a time when the school police were a regular guest at the school. The school collaborated with the police in legal and security education. For example, the school police held traffic education lessons for students and gave education and consultation and was very strong in support of student care. At school, a child was allowed to face a uniformed school police officer when there was no need. This strengthened children’s confidence in the police. With fewer resources, school police activity has waned, as has the police in the network work of primary schools. Indeed, the police will often be brought in only when the crisis has already developed. I believe that preventive work by the police is necessary. I hope that in the future it will be possible to return to the good old days, when the police also had resources for school police activities for primary school pupils and for primary school student care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u497	Thank you. And then, Congressman Niikko, will the finale come?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u498	Mr President! Disgusting sexual crimes against children of asylum seekers in Oulu are so serious that if we do not make more concrete decisions now, I think the credibility of Parliament in the eyes of the people goes away. We should send a clear message from this house to all pedophiles and other sexual offenders that crime is not worthwhile in Finland. This requires nothing more than the basic work that we are doing in this house, namely legislation. We should tighten up legislation in a few respects. For example, we should raise the thresholds for the punishment of perpetrators of serious crimes and remove the first-time clause. It would send a clear message to sexual offenders, for example, that they are being held responsible for this. The second thing, of course, is that if you are a foreigner, you should certainly expel him. If there is a dual nationality, Finnish citizenship must be taken away. As the third thing we generally do not want or dare to talk about, we should also develop a path in the legislation towards chemical castration for these sexual offenders who interfere with children. This is the kind of legislation that exists in some countries, and this is not a new invention, but it is not very easy to think about in Western countries. I think that these measures would give us a clear signal that in Finland children should be left alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u499	Presentation of Section 27 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence The first speaker is Mr Niikko, and then Minister Niinistö will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u500	Mr President! Thank you to the members of the Section for Administration and Security for their excellent cooperation in the preparation of this budget and also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the fact that things have progressed well in full agreement. The Ministry of Defence's administration. Approximately EUR 3138 million is proposed for the administrative sector, which is approximately EUR 266 million more than in 2018. The increase in expenditure is mainly due to the contribution of the Fleet 2020 project and the increase in material purchases based on the Government Programme from EUR 110 million to EUR 130 million. The draft budget for the administrative branch of the Ministry of Defence follows the guidelines of the Government's Defence Report. This appropriation, which has been presented to the Committee in accordance with the report received, will enable it to carry out the tasks assigned. Military national defense. An amount of EUR 1.94 billion is proposed for this article. The committee believes that it is a step in the right direction that the proposal for operational expenditure includes an additional EUR 50 million in funding to improve the capacity and performance required to change the security environment. In addition, an additional amount of EUR 5.8 million is proposed for the Defence Forces’ personnel expenditure. It is also important for the maintenance of credible defence that the appropriations presented enable the planned level of activity in military training, where it is 35 off-road days, and in reserve refresher exercises, where it is 18000 trained reserve staff. Similarly, it is essential that the number of flight hours and days on board remains largely at the level of the current year. However, the committee is concerned about the known increase in the price of aviation fuels. If necessary, the Government must take account of the need in the draft amending budget to meet the hourly flight targets set. The committee also notes that there is also a need to increase the number of refresher exercises, but the current number of staff is not possible. The committee is also concerned about the strong increase in the costs of the Defence Forces' space costs and considers it important that different options to further reduce costs in the long term are sought. Further measures will be based on a study of the ownership of the defence administration buildings to be completed in February 2019, as well as the Ministry of Finance's proposals to facilitate, among other things, redundancies in empty premises and strengthen the customer perspective. The increase in farm costs cannot be compensated by reducing expenditure on other activities. This was also mentioned several times in the Ministry of the Interior. The committee also highlights the adequacy of the funding of the Defence Forces' research and development activities and urges an increase in funding to a 2% share of military defence expenditure. The committee also welcomes the fact that the draft budget has set the goal of achieving material policy objectives as a result of the Ministry of Defence. The guidelines must be reflected in the Defence Forces procurement activity in such a way that purchases are made at home whenever justified by security of supply and performance criteria. The Moment's decision... — We have to jump a bit, President, we are running out of time.The committee adds EUR 200,000 to the item for the recruitment of contract soldiers. Then let's go to military procurement. Some EUR 1.2 billion, or 44%, of military defence appropriations is planned to be spent on material preparedness in 2019. Despite a large maintenance budget, all defence branches face challenges, particularly in the case of spare parts. The committee, like the Committee on Defence, points out that the cost of life-cycle and spare parts must always be taken into account when purchasing material. In particular, in the future HX procurement, life-cycle costs must be managed and used in the framework of the budget allocated to the Air Force. Mr President! Finally, support for the activities of defence organisations. The committee adds EUR 100000 to support the activities of defence organisations. And at the end of the day, even though time has run out, military crisis management to the extent that military crisis management is presented to the Ministry of Defence’s administrative sector of approximately EUR 58.5 million, which is EUR 157,000 more than in 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u501	Madam President! Finland’s credible defence is based on the guidelines and resources set out in the Defence Report. Through the implementation of the report, Finland has adapted its defences to the change in the security environment, but above all to maintain its defence capability in the next decade. The defence report on the Government Programme was already well taken into account in last year's budget, and this draft budget for the coming year also meets these requirements. The defence budget will rise to 1.29 per cent of GDP, with the NATO method of calculation to 1.5 per cent. In my view, the report by the Committee on Finance has very well highlighted the positive aspects of the budget, but also the key points of pain. Concerns include, for example, the adequacy of human resources, the increase in space costs, the adequacy of R & D funding, security of supply, life cycle and spare parts costs of materials. I can agree with these views. Problems have been addressed during the current government period, but it is essential for the long-term maintenance of national defence to take care of resources also in the longer term. The defence system must be developed in relation to the security environment. There are no signs of dissipation in the air, on the contrary. During the current term of government, the Defence Forces have become more and more a preparedness organisation than the training organisation. The army’s preparedness training and training have improved the ground force’s readiness for uplifting for a few years, and the development continues. Mr President! This draft budget is historic. For the first time, the defence budget is rising by more than EUR 3 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u502	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u503	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u504	Mr President! One of the very sensitive issues, which is difficult to measure with numbers, but which I want the Minister to speculate with, is that, on an increasing scale, when we engage in international military cooperation in various forms of exercise, it is certainly an added value that cannot be achieved within the framework of national action. How does the Minister value this international cooperation? Of course, it takes some financial resources, but does the Minister also see it as a cost-effective model to improve our own national military capabilities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u505	Madam President! In its own opinion on the budget, the Committee on Defence stressed that the importance of personnel for the Defence Forces and for national defence as a whole is a very important element. The government has also responded to this situation by adding 100 troops now. The direction is the right one, but, as the Minister said, it is not enough. There has also been a confrontation between the Defence Forces personnel organisations in recent weeks. In my opinion, the contributions of the Association of Officers have shown that there is already a gap between the staff and the way in which these resources are allocated between the staff. However, staff shall not be placed against each other. I ask the Minister how the Minister sees: should the defence report be continued next season and parliamentary follow-up also to the defence report work, so that we can now take a sustainable path to raising the number of staff in the Defence Forces to the level of duties required by Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u506	Madam President! Today, there were reports of fighter acquisitions, and numbers were already rising in the news. For me, it is very important at this stage that we do not begin to discuss the fighters, the numbers or the money, but that we maintain this good parliamentary cooperation on the consensus of procurement and then leave for the next term of government the decisions that belong to and have been agreed upon for the next term of government. I would like to ask the Minister what he thinks about this. I hope that is not the subject of this evening's debate, at least in the first place. General military service is the foundation of Finnish defence. That was the Minister's position on the draft budget, and it was pleasant to hear that the Minister welcomed the budget figures in such a way that they would do well to go forward to the coming year and to the coming decade to take the Defence Forces forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u507	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank you for the additions to the recruitment of contract soldiers and to support defence organisations. It is also a good thing that the Committee on Finance has raised concerns about the increase in the price of aviation fuel and its possible impact on the hourly targets. Adequate training of pilots and securing flight hours are a key part of maintaining performance. We have already raised concerns about the ability of staff to cope, and this is a subject that has been talking about for years and for a reason. Staff are on the edge of exhaustion and, unfortunately, some of them are already exhausted. There are far too few staff in relation to the constantly increasing number of jobs, and, as the Minister himself said, the 100 additional posts for next year will not be enough, given the need for several hundred additional posts. I would like to ask the Minister how to deal with this. The rest of the personnel won't go far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u508	Madam President! It is clear that the maintenance of defence capability must highlight changes in the operating environment, the development of the capability of all branches of defence, the replacement of decommissioned capabilities, and the development of intelligence, cyber defence and remote influence. There is work to be done for an independent country, but I would stress that it is also the task of an independent country. Voluntary national defence work is very important in our country and there is strong public support. MPK trained over 34,000 reserve personnel last year. It is also increasingly important to safeguard the vital functions of society and to increase the capacity of citizens, in which some 18,000 citizens participated last year. I think it is good that women too have found these courses as their own. We need each and every one of us in our defence work. I welcome the fact that, for next year too, EUR 2.2 million will be proposed for the recruitment of contract soldiers. This will reduce the existing need for training.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u509	Madam President! Under previous governments, the garrison was put to an end. It feels like the Defence Forces were being driven down at full power. However, thanks to the current Minister for Defence, this trend has now been halted. It is important that the areas of training and activity that are important for the Defence Forces and, where appropriate, for other security authorities are maintained. The Minister of Defence himself has pointed out that in the future it could be the creation of a new garrison or the substantial expansion of an existing garrison. I would like to ask the Minister: do you have any idea or map of where the new garrison could be geographically located or which garrison could possibly be extended?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u510	Madam President! This government will leave a good legacy of defence to the next government. The moods were very different when this government went to work. Thank you to the Minister for that, you have been determined to take the various projects forward. Investments in defence have been made in preparedness, national defence has been taken care of, developed, international activities have been invested, performance and material procurement has been done to a good extent, intelligence has been invested, cyber expertise has been increased. All in all, the defence has been invested, held on to the foundation stones, the strong reserve, the general military duty. However, the basic principle has been this one third of every person, whether in activity, material or personnel. You described, Minister, in your speech, that the material is going to bite and bite off most of this already, but the position of the staff has now been very strongly raised in this debate. In fact, I would like to ask how you feel we can achieve those objectives. What is your analysis of how we can develop our defence on these three fundamental issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u511	Madam President! If I first ask the same question as in the case of the police with regard to these security properties, which have been concerned about both the police, Raja and the Defence Forces. We had to hear about Senate real estate and at that time was on display that this kind of security real estate thinking would have moved forward. And now the question to the Minister for Defence: how is it going, and are we getting there? I know that some people are also thinking that the Defence Forces would organise all their property management in the future themselves. Secondly, these refresher exercises and the number of trainers in which I hope not only to rely on contract soldiers or temporary solutions, but to actually hire permanent staff, because it also brings continuity to this. And for that reason, I also think that I prefer to trust the people we have regularly employed, rather than the fact that we in Finland have only temporary or hobby-like defences.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u512	Mr President! First of all, these international military exercises. Anyone who has followed their time may have noticed that their volume has increased and the nature of the exercises has changed. Finland is also more closely involved in such exercises, where practice is practiced for Article 5 of NATO, and various word games even try to obscure the management responsibility of the exercises and their nature. Yes, I draw the conclusion that in this way the aim is to change the basic Finnish foreign and security policy line, especially when you remember that the stealth destroyers and P52 bombers were already being brought to Finland. And someone intervened, someone intervened, Minister. But then about this HX project. It is strange that the biggest acquisition in Finnish history should not be critically assessed. However, it is a question of debt money and tax euros for all of us and a huge economic link in a situation where the EU is on the verge of an economic crisis and Finland's economy is going downhill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u513	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the Minister that during this parliamentary term there has been a common will for the development of national defence, and this is reflected in the results, and much good has been achieved. However, I see the situation as being that we must continue along the same lines and, as Mr Pakkanen has pointed out, now that we have a common parliamentary line, that we are moving forward even in major procurements, they must be strongly promoted. Let me raise a few questions: A number of security of supply factors were raised in the committee hearing, both in committee and in the section, in relation to A-goods. This situation was seen as quite worrying at the moment. How does the Minister respond to this, what is the situation? Then, this will to defend the country, which was raised in that survey of national defence information, is still high in European terms, but is there anything else we can do in terms of transparency to keep it at a high level?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u514	Mr President! It is great that we have taken note of this, at least in some of the speeches, that the Minister's back has been that we have parliamentary cooperation, which gives back the fact that we have since been able to agree with these Minister's openings in one Parliament. However, I would have asked when we received this report on the willingness to defend the country — even though this is not the case with the budget, but it concerns the spread of new resources in the region — how the Minister sees that we can deal with the fact that, in the case of those who have done civil service or unarmed service and those who have refused arms, we can bring all these people within the framework of our defence system so that we can make use of everyone's area of expertise, because there are more than armed crises in which people with a will to defend the country can take part. I remember that the Minister has taken a line of this kind that we have different possibilities to increase the will to defend the country and that it would be possible for more people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u515	Mr President! The debate on this defence budget is taking place now, and it is good to hear that there is broad support for these policies from the various parties, which has now been done by the government and through the committee reading. The great thing is that these 100 posts will now be added to the staff. It's very necessary. Of course, there is not enough, but it is also good to note that when we do not have enough applicants for crisis management forces, it is precisely this shortage of staff that shows that when you apply for employment there, then it is out of the military service and the staff there. This is an equation that we will then have to leave immediately next year to resolve. It is good to note, for example, that the Association of Officers took the view that the military service should also be developed in such a way as to involve women in the service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u516	Mr President! The cornerstones of Finland's defence are general military service, sufficient defence resources and personnel, and a strong will to defend the country. However, according to a recent study by MTS, the will to defend the country has fallen to its lowest level in Finland in 30 years. This, combined with other threats to our security environment, such as increased hybrid influence, is worrying. In particular, strengthening the will of young people to defend their country must be a key objective. In addition to the important role played by homes and schools to ensure that young people have sufficient knowledge of why independent Finland has been defended and why it is still worth defending, there is also a need for extensive opportunities to participate in the various tasks of defence and overall security on a voluntary basis, and it is therefore very welcome to do so,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u517	Mr President! The defence budget is being discussed, and a big thank you to the Minister for Defence for the fact that, throughout the entire term of the government, there has been significant progress in the reforms and large-scale involvement of staff in these projects. This is an incredibly important issue. The main priorities for the maintenance and development of defence capabilities are the development of all defence branches and immediate preparedness forces and preparedness forces, i.e. with the involvement of personnel in that way, so all defence branches can be strongly promoted together. A great deal has been said about the need for staff, the need for more contract soldiers, the need for a hundred posts, the possibility of hiring a hundred permanent soldiers. But when we consider the situation in which we can also be more motivated by that conscript to carry out his own military duty, the close contact instructor is also of paramount importance for the continuation of the will to defend the country and its network after military service. So I ask the Minister: in what way can we really, now, also through a permanent office, increase the number of local trainers in the long term?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u518	Mr President! Iron will not help if the will is lacking — is that so, Minister Niinistö? Our environment is more unpredictable, less predictable, even a state of war may not always be declared, and if anything happens, our own involvement will be denied. The fact is that conflicts take place in areas where there are fundamental internal conflicts. This has been said at least in the section, for example, by Pekka Visuri. When a country is united, it is felt that there are common values, that there is trust in the authorities, that there is a belief that this country is worth defending, and then there is that will. My question to the Minister is: how do you see, do we have a will, iron not only helps?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u519	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for this whole budget preparation, because there was very little hope of changing the government's proposal during the consultation of the Section for Administration and Security. Only this additional recruitment of contract soldiers, EUR 200,000, and support for the activities of defence organisations, EUR 100000, were those that were going to be increased. The Committee's section drew attention to the same point that Mr Pelkonen drew attention to here, i.e. the possible increase in fuel prices for aircraft. It is to be hoped that, if necessary, the next government will take this into account in its draft amending budget so that an adequate target for hours of flight will be achieved. Another key issue was the state costs of the Defence Forces, their rise. In the future, it would be important and desirable for the report to be completed in February to enable the defence administration to dispose of certain properties,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u520	Mr President! I drew attention to the fact that some 35,000 elderly men were invited to the military service, of whom 25,000 took part roundly in the military service, and about 5,000 interrupted the military service. The statistics also show that only about 2,500 people and about 100 people are engaged in civilian service, which means that there are a huge number of young men here who do not really want to participate in a common defence or civil service. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, we talked particularly about some way of screening all young people — even girls and women — to make such an invitation, where we would see the direction in which life goes. In a way, I would have asked the Minister if there was any progress in this matter during this parliamentary term. We have an awful lot of young men who just disappear somewhere. It cannot be acceptable that such a large number do not really want to perform even unarmed or civilian service, let alone military service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u521	Mr President! For my part, I too would like to thank the Minister and the chairman of the section of the committee for the strong work they have done with the broad support of Parliament during the parliamentary term. Mr President! I will draw attention to the same thing as in the previous two years: cyber defence resources. In its opinion on the budget, the Committee on Defence welcomes the fact that, in addition to military and reserve training and preparedness tasks, the Defence Forces are assigning more than 200 persons to cyber defence tasks through internal measures. I am on the committee's line, and this focus is very necessary for the development of cyber defence, but I also agree that such an important refocusing of human resources can create challenges for the performance of an expanding field of tasks. I would like to ask the Minister, as has been pointed out in many other speeches: how does the Minister see the growing pressure and the need for resources on the staff of the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u522	Mr President! Thank you to the government, thank you to Minister Niinistö and thank the Committee on Finance for taking the needs of defence seriously and increasing resources. In particular, I would like to thank the Minister. Niinistö about his determined approach to steering the Defence Forces in a new direction and to better respond to the change in the security environment. I would like to take this opportunity to ask about the practice of recording defence expenditure in relation to GDP. With this procedure used by Finland, defence expenditure accounts for 1.28% of GDP, while Western practice or NATO practice, which would take into account the expenditure of crisis management forces, personnel pensions and the costs of the Border Guard, would be 1.6 per cent, perhaps slightly higher. Would it be better to use this international procedure to make our expenses more comparable with the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u523	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that even the following Members have spoken in this debate, who have now asked for it: Mr Mäkelä, Mr Hongisto, Mr Hakkarainen. My accounting records also show that Mr Pirttilahti's request to speak is recorded here and Mr Mikkosen. Here we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u524	Mr President! This issue of Senate real estate always pops up when it comes to these farm costs in the state administration, and I find it a bit confusing in the sense that the Senate is a state-owned company, which is not intended to generate profits. However, it is now claimed that it collects high rents. But if it's too hard, where does it put the money now? I would therefore like to hear what this is really about, rather than populism and accusations. Is it really the case that the Senate is inefficient in maintenance and does not know how to compete with another operator, quite objectively, or is it simply that the maintenance of their walls is now so expensive and the basic problem is not in the Senate but in these real costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u525	Mr President! I'll take it from where Congressman Mäkelä left the Senate properties. In fact, property expenditure accounts for about 10% of the defence budget, and this is a shocking amount.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u526	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u527	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u528	Mr President! I would like to ask the Special Forces whether the resources of the Special Forces are still at a good level and then to the extent that there is also scope for action and also scope for development. For special forces, I will also read the activities of the Cyber Security Centre and the related sections of the defence arm. On the will to It is a great thing that the Committee on Finance added EUR 100000 to it, so that it can contribute to the defence of the country. It is also important that, when changes occur, at least I personally hope that the defence course will continue to function at a good level and will also create a sense of defence. And I would like to conclude, in fact, with the question of Hongisto and Savola and the partners, whether there is any way to get rats into this real estate issue, especially in relation to Senate properties. Could we discuss this together for the whole Government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u529	Mr President! The development of military service is one of the priorities of the Defence Forces, and that is very good. I understand that new forms of training have already been introduced and tested, and it is important that they spread everywhere. Care must also be taken to ensure that the facilities are proper and that the equipment is also suitable for women. It is important that we develop military service in such a way that we can make the best possible use of the military's own expertise. And, indeed, what Mr Jarva also raised, strengthening women's participation, and the fact that invitations are being carried out for the entire age group, would be an important step forward. At the same time, we also know that invitations are the point where we can reach the age group once again. Now it's just men, but it would be good if in the future it was for the entire age group. And it should give more thought to cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u530	Mr President! In the longer term, I am concerned about these appropriations, even though they will rise by 266 million for next year. This so-called JTS billion, which balances public finances, is a strong threat to defence management. And, in fact, I would like to ask the Minister how these effects have been taken into account, precisely in the light of the fact that it has been possible to increase the volume of material procurement and to increase the level of capacity, and now, if this were to be achieved on the basis of what has been predicted, at the end of the decade, these appropriations would have been taken up. Add to this the fact that we will be investing in the material in any case with the acquisition of a fighter, these are needed. We have to invest in them. The Army needs development. And as a small but very important issue, the development of voluntary defence, MPK appropriations. Here's a big whole where a lot of people need the money. Will we have enough money?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u531	Mr President! Here, when there is a great deal of praise, especially from the Government Party side, to the Minister, there are certainly a lot of things here to be commended for the opposition. But what I threw at is that, yes, thanks for the big part are due to the parliamentary work led by Mr Kanerva at the end of the last period, when it was discovered that Finland's defence resources do not correspond to the pressure, military pressure or, at least, the threat it poses to Finland from every aspect of the environment outside Europe and, therefore, to Finland as well. And the resources that were shared by Parliament have now been shared by us, including the Minister. I would therefore like to emphasise the importance of parliamentary work. The processing of intelligence laws also showed how much we will get together when we negotiate together. Not just in committee rooms, but in the halls of Parliament, at the diner table, and we are having a debate on how to ensure the sovereignty of our own fine republic under all weather conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u532	Mr President! It is necessary to reform the compulsory military service so that young age groups also feel that the will to defend the country is higher. The obligation to provide military service should not be waived, but the system must be developed in a more equal way. In addition, the next government must examine the possibilities and conditions for civic service. In fact, civil service would also make it possible for those who do not perform military service to take part in the defence of the country. Any civil service would not replace general military service but would complement it. I would like to ask the Minister about the development of military service: how do you feel about inviting and funding the entire age group, including women?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u533	Mr President! It has become clear here that the will to defend the country is high, but it has fallen. We have a glorious history of the Winter War, among other things. Then came the whites, the reds, the tatars, the Jews, the Swedes, and so forth. They didn't know what to take away with. The backpack got hit in the back and left. No, no, no, no, The stories of Tilttu were believed, they were put in the O-Lap — and the deans were put behind the sauna by the way. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u534	Minister, you have three minutes from that canteen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u535	Mr President! A lot of questions. I will try my best to answer, but first of all I would like to thank you for your support. The representative, Mr Kanerva, began with the question of how to value international cooperation, whether it is a cost-effective way of developing national defence. It is when this exercise takes place in Finland. It will then be particularly cost-effective and will also increase our interoperability. Congressman Kari asked me about the defense report. This parliamentary margin should continue to be maintained in the development of national defence, and the report is the most important instrument for furthering defence policy alongside the Government Programme. So I hope there will also be a defence report during the next parliamentary term. I agree with Mr Pakkanen that it is pointless to speculate at this stage on the HX project and especially on the number of machines, not to mention the type of machine to be selected. It could jeopardise the whole process — we can only see what happened in Canada. But I can say that the number of 64 machines has been set out in the defence statement and decided on in the Committee on Economic Policy, and I see that we cannot compromise on that number. Congressman Ronkainen asked about the garrison. The Defence Forces must certainly be visible throughout Finland, and if I or a representative from Savola are asked, there would certainly be a place for the garrison in South Ostrobothnia, but also in North Karelia. But we do not necessarily have to cling to the old-fashioned concept of the garrison, but we can also talk about defence centers that would also support the evolving voluntary defence. The staff of the Defence Forces came up in the speeches, at least in the speeches of Mr Pelkonen, Mr Savola and Mr Viljanen. Of course, staff is a key factor in performance, material alone is not enough, and the next government must continue the work that has been started. As Mr Pelkonen said, we are now at the limit of the staff. And at the same time as new capabilities are being developed, Mrs Viljanen mentioned cyber, it is clear that this current staff will not be able to do this. Representative Paatero and many others raised the issue of this security property — or Tower property, as I have mentioned — and the breaking-up of the Senate, and the investigation of this issue is currently under way by the Defence Administration. In February it should be completed, then we will be wiser, and hopefully in the next government negotiations there will be enough wisdom to make the right decisions. I would like to say to Mr Mustajärvi that Finland does not practice Article 5 of NATO, which is done by NATO countries. [Markus Black Lake interlude] Congressman Reijonen asked me about the ammunition. The most recent information is that some funds have been transferred to them, so the situation is not as bad as it could be at the moment. The will to defend the country will be examined, among other things, by the Ministry of Defence, and the results will hopefully be achieved in the early part of next year, when, for example, we will be able to return to the matter in the Committee on Defence. Mrs Myllykoski rightly said that civil service has not been sufficiently developed over the years. On the other hand, that is another administrative matter. If it were under the authority of the Ministry of Defense, then it would happen in a completely different way. Congressman Kiuru, iron won't help if there's no will. I think that is a good thing to say. There's a will. I am referring, for example, to the final inquiry by the garrison, which shows that the will to defend the country is at least high, and they are these real producers of security. In itself, young people could be given more information about national defence, especially in schools. This is also a comment to Mr Vikman, Chairman of the National Defence Information Board. To Mr Hakaselle, I would also like to say that trainers have already been trained to take more account of young people as individuals. The number of trainers has already been increased and this work must be continued. Mr Kopra asked about the share of defence expenditure in GDP. It is certainly justified on the international stage to use this method of calculation according to the NATO criteria, but there are still budgetary technical aspects of this at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u536	Minister! In numbers, a little more precision. I promised three, and I went about five, a little short.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u537	Mr President! To that extent, I will continue with the Minister that, from the point of view of Finland's idea, a major issue has not only been our internal issue but also our external concern, externally, that we are the great power of peace-keeping. It's history. In the light of today’s figures, it is past time, and, admittedly, we are looking at this with a little expensive helmet. It is not conducive to strengthening not only our own capacity but also our external deterrence. Could it be thought that at some point this would be raised in the workshop and whether the profile of peacekeeping and crisis management could be raised?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u538	Mr President! “We need to make sure that we do I would like to ask the Minister a few questions as follows on from the question of the chairman of that committee: How, from the point of view of the Minister, is this international activity, whether it is sufficient to focus on the right issues, and whether we should perhaps focus on specific operations, or whether this so-called decentralised system is concerned about being around the world? At the moment, Finns are in Lebanon under French command, and there will probably be new experiences in a few months, because the operation has only just begun. What is this international perspective?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u539	Mr President! I agree here with the opinion of the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, on this importance of peace-keeping work. If we are not to have all the crises in our arms, Finland too must take responsibility for the global situation and also be where the crises start or arise, and that part of it is also fighting the source of the crises. In that Committee on Defence, when you have been able to sit in the hearings of the Committee on Defence for several years, a different type of picture has been created of these training leadership tasks from those of the Minister in that speech. I'm not going to go into that. I am prepared to have a debate with the Minister, even after this debate in the Chamber. However, I would like to draw attention to the re-building of the garrison network for the election programmes of the small party represented by the minister. However, during the present Parliament and the government, during the ministry's duties and watch, all the garrisons that were previously abandoned have been sold to others. Where are these garrisons going if the properties have already been sold to new operators, not only in Häme, Lahti, but in many other places, including North Karelia?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u540	Mr President! The development of military training and, of course, these options for overall security and how the will to defend the country could continue to be taken care of was mentioned earlier. Regrettably, there have been some signs of a decline in the national defence order. The Centre has taken a position on this model of civil service to the extent that we should carry out a parliamentary inquiry in the future and set up a working party next season to develop this. The development of military defence is a matter for all parties, for the whole of Parliament, and the development of this model is also greatly supported by officers, for example. There are also issues that could already be developed in military training to support the development of the will to defend the country, and it has been a pleasure to note that the Defence Forces are already investigating, for example, how the collective spirit between the military, which particularly affects the will to defend the country, can be improved by, for example, joint support in other countries,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u541	Mr President! On these strategic projects: The poll was commissioned by the U.S.A. and the result of its survey was quite surprising, one third of Finns are critical of these strategic procurements, their funding, and less than half are positive. For example, Pesu, a researcher at the Institute of Foreign Policy, found this result surprising. It is obvious that even the Defence Forces cannot have an open spike and that the will of the soldiers goes beyond the political decision-making system. We remember the battle for battle helicopters. The generals were ready to get them. By political decision, the project was shot down, and since then no one has cried after these battle helicopters. And if this is done by relying on iron, it will certainly be done at the expense of the staff, and the imbalance in the funding of defence branches will be strengthened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u542	Mr President! At the same time as we are concerned about the survival of the Defence Forces personnel, there is also reason to be concern about the deterioration of the physical condition of the military personnel. This unfortunate trend has been going on for a few decades. The distribution of young people into those who maintain basic health and those who are in worse condition is constantly increasing. And I would like to ask the Minister: Is there anything new coming next year in this area, and how can the garrison be motivated to maintain physical fitness even after the military service? I would also have asked about the subject to which Mr Jarva has already referred, that is to say, this joint tobacco crisis: is there any chance that it will become anything in the near future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u543	Mr President! Real estate costs are indeed a factor in much of the Defence Forces’ operating expenses. Senate real estate and the rent increases it defines already account for more than 10 % of its operations. You have suggested, Minister, that the Defence Forces take over their own property, and you have already partially responded to it. I personally see it so that this is the only way to get control of the rental riser. Another major problem is the Ottawa Convention banning anti-personnel mines. Replacement weapons and equipment have been developed and tested. The fact is, however, that nothing replaces the deterrent and defensive effects of anti-personnel mines. Minister, should Finland finally withdraw from the Ottawa agreement, start the machinery and start producing anti-personnel mines?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u544	Mr President! Military duty is the body of the Finnish defence system. Traditionally, the high will to defend the country has also been based on this. A large proportion of the age group have completed the military service and thus become familiar with the defence of the country. Now that the age groups are getting smaller and a smaller proportion of the age group than previously do the military service, it may be that part of this results in the slight decline in the will to defend the country. This civic service has already been discussed here in previous speeches, and representatives Jarva and Pelkonen raised it, and I wonder if this could be a way to increase public awareness of the defence of the country among all the people, so that every Finn understands that defence is an important and serious matter and is of benefit to every Finnish citizen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u545	Mr President! First thing in the world: It is not the figures defined in the report, however, but the fact that they are being replaced. So if the machine fleet has not developed at all in these 20 years, then that means buying exactly the same machines and buying just newer ones. I suppose the development of these instruments has also become what is meant by its fullness. Secondly, let us not begin to discuss here, however, that the garrison is in poor condition, but that the young people who come into military service are currently in poor condition, it is by no means the cause of the service. And as a final question: What would our defence sector have to learn from the Arab Spring? Should the military have been able to predict what it would be like?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u546	One last comment to the representatives of Vikman and Savola, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u547	Mr President! I will come back to my previous question on the development of military service, because in the next negotiations on the Government Programme, invitations will certainly arise at least for the entire age group, so I ask: how does the Minister view the calls for the whole age group, and what are the aspects involved in funding them? As a second question, how does the Minister see the possibilities and benefits of introducing civil service, which complements the current system of compulsory military service, and what benefit could it possibly bring?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u548	Mr. Speaker! This parliamentary preparation and its future, as Mr Kari may have already challenged. At least I strongly believe that this parliamentary preparation should be continued on our defence issues, because it has achieved good results. It's been our strength. It has given us a long-term view of our defence planning as a whole, and it will be reflected in all our excellent cooperation, including in the committee, where these matters have been pushed forward across party boundaries. In the next decade, we will be faced with the most extensive procurement in our history, specifically with regard to the HX project. We will certainly face challenges with the economy: the funds must be found in different areas. Our will to defend the country is one of such a key factors, which I am sure will be confirmed by the fact that we will be able to reach a long-term agreement in this Chamber across party boundaries. Personally, I very much hope that through parliamentary work we will be able to continue and also to overcome the challenges facing us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u549	Mr President! It was very pleasant to listen to Mr Savola, the responsible patriot. The handshake of the city centre can be trusted in these matters of national defence, and I also heard the word right from the point of view of the assembly. I believe in the will of this Parliament to deal with these matters of defence together. In this context, I would also like to emphasise my own view of the need for this machine procurement, mainly from the debate which was heard and seen in the Committee on Defence. Neither the Committee on Defence nor the report have taken a position on the number of machines. There has been talk of fully replacing performance. I personally think it is extremely necessary for us to be able to rely on expertise when we talk about replacing such demanding performance. What they are, let them remain there until 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u550	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u551	Mr President! Voluntary defence work is of great importance for the credibility and high will of the Finnish defence system, the will to defend the country, which has been somewhat concerned about the new research results here today, although the will to defend the country is still at a very good level in Finland. In order to maintain this excellent state of defence, it is very good that the funds for voluntary defence in parliamentary deliberations were strengthened — not much, but the direction is the right one. The training activities organised by the National Defence Training Association also significantly complement the knowledge base of the reserve population. Reservist self-training plays an important role in maintaining, among other things, the skills of shooting and physical ability to function. In this activity, the Reservoir Associations play a key and important role, and in this way I myself join and join the voluntary defence work. The Ministry of Defence is currently preparing a proposal for the reorganization of voluntary defence and the transfer of military training to the Defence Forces. As we have already asked the Minister, and as the Committee on Defence has already pointed out, such a change cannot be achieved without a significant number of additional posts for the Defence Forces. Hopefully, the future government will show them already in the forthcoming Spring Government negotiations and will continue the excellent work of this government in favour of Finnish defence. Mr President! The budget proposal has also rightly raised the issue of increasing the use of the network, virtual and simulation system in the military service. I agree with the request of the Committee on Defence that: The Defence Forces should also make greater use of these systems in the training of reservists. The additional benefits of electronic systems are also available in such a way that they enable the interaction channels between the military and the Defence Forces to be developed in such a way as to provide the Defence Forces with the fullest possible knowledge of the expertise of the reservists, thus making better use of the expertise of the reservists in defence planning and in the various tasks of the reservist training. With more detailed information, the capacity of the reservists would be better maintained and developed, and I believe that this more accurate use of know-how would also further increase the will and motivation of the reservists to defend the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u552	Mr President! The main priorities for the maintenance and development of the Defence Forces and Defence Capability have been highlighted here many times today. In this speech, I was thinking a little more about a few points which have been taken into account in this budget, but which have spoken here today. I also know when I have experience of military training and being a soldier in the way in which the limitations of this human resources are highlighted there in everyday life. Of course, it is a long time since a trainer had a job, but such pressurized times are well remembered and also when it seemed that even then there were few personnel. Of course, the situation today is quite different. When we have talked about this parliamentary preparation in the future, I believe that this is an extremely important matter for the unity of the nation, that this goes on beyond this for the parliamentary term and that we recognise and recognise all the need for it. In my opinion, it is the only way we can move forward with things, so that we can also act temporarily under pressure from the economy so that we have a good, independent defence force. Now, staff expenditure, i.e. posts, will be increased by less than 6 million, 100 posts, and 2 million for contract soldiers. This will reduce the existing educational deficit, good for you. But we're still falling under its goal of 2.5 trainers per team in many units. And that is a worrying situation, because when we are at the limit of the ability of its staff, at the limit of prosperity, and when we take a new batch of arrivals into the garrison and go to train them as conscripts, it should not be for a moment, not even a day, in this brief military service, situations where the trainer would not be up to his situation or would be doing it at 100 percent of his working day. I am not saying that this is not the case today, but there is a risk because this is the situation with our staff. In the situation when that sign is given to the conscript, whatever it is to be done, the motivation of the guy who performs the military service will also be weakened when he sees that our trainer is not in perfect physical condition or mental condition. So this will be signed immediately by the will to defend the country when the military service has been carried out. Mr President! This is a rather heavy idea to make public this way, but the truth must be looked into the eyes, and I believe that we have all been aware of this. Then there has also been talk of motivation and the condition of the garrison. It is indeed the case that perhaps those performing military service may be in poor condition when entering, but surely today those remaining in military service will be in a position to perform that duty. I also stress that, today, tasks are also better distributed during the E-period so that they are actually motivated to carry out that task, and that condition will also be developed to the level required for that task. Much has also been said today about civic service and invitations to the entire age group. I strongly support the idea that we should go ahead with it in some time, because then we will actually be able to talk extensively about understanding the security of supply of the whole population, about taking part in security of supply, whatever the crisis is. There's no need to be a big fuss when we're starting to have something we can't cook in the winter. In the summer, we'll be at the grill on the terrace, but when the power goes out for a long time, you won't know how to light a gas grill when it's November snowfalls. In other words, such a willingness to care for everyday life, both by family and a little more widely, would bring this civic service, while taking into account the few tasks and the social players we have, and attracting the age group, would be encouraged to join them. Mr President! Finally, I would also like to emphasise that we often criticise crisis management tasks and how much we participate in them, how much, how long the projects are. But I still believe that the need to train a professional soldier through it too, and then while in Finland again in their own duties, serves back many times more when you have been there in crisis management tasks to complete your period. So I think that the euro will come back many times over.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u553	Mr President! For a small independent state, ensuring the functioning of the armed forces and maintaining the capacity to act are of the utmost importance. The fact that more money is being made for a small amount of operational expenditure and also for staff expenditure is a positive thing, precisely in order to secure the maintenance of a credible reserve, which means reasonably well-equipped troops and, above all, a sufficient number of refresher exercises, and I understand that these goals have been achieved reasonably well. It is equally important that we have excellent personnel to train our garrisons and maintain the Finnish defence capability. The fact that we are now laying down intelligence laws in this house provides more tools for military intelligence and, of course, for civilian intelligence, and that is of the utmost importance for the maintenance of the security of Finland as a whole. After all, it has been strange so far that foreign scouts have been able to access our information networks to the full, but our own authorities, whether military or civilian, have had nothing to do with these networks. Now we can get this thing right, and that is a very good thing. What is also important is that, at the level of the fleet, we keep such equipment that guarantees a credible defence capability and in the forthcoming Hornet fighter compensation acquisition, which has already started and where decisions will be taken during the next parliamentary term, even in that decision, it is important to bear in mind that Finland must be able to exercise credible control both at land borders and at sea borders and from the air, so that our airspace is inviolable. That is absolutely necessary and I know that the support of Parliament for these projects is very strong and that our top experts, our soldiers, will ensure that the equipment to be acquired responds to what a country of this size needs. Mr President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to the same issue that I referred to in the section of the Ministry of the Interior on the subject of the Border Guard and the police, this matter of Senate real estate. It is quite incomprehensible that in this country we do not dare to discuss what kind of rent the Senate properties collect from, for example, the Defence Forces. It's something I can't believe. Why have we gone into this system? It has never fit in my head yet, but if there is such wisdom in this house, I would kindly ask you to contact me: we will have an in-depth discussion over a cup of coffee as to why such a system has entered. At this rate, Finland will soon be such a state that there will be a large number of people here who will do nothing and then try to get some compensation from the state. Then we have Senate properties that charge huge rent for all things. After that, there's not much else. Is this our target state? I'm just asking. For example, I can say that at Ilomants when the state drove from its own premises to the Border Guard on ridiculous rents. Then these properties were sold. Well, luckily they went to the private sector and there is now a private company that provides good services. Nothing was wasted in that sense. But the government would have inherited the next... Of course, it was no longer possible to charge rent for the property when the tenant left and fortunately made it to new premises, private premises that were profitable — one third of the price that the State would have charged for its own property. This is a conversation we keep having in this house. In fact, I am annoyed at this situation every night when I wonder why such a system in general has gone on. I do not know how the Audit Committee feels about this. As I recall, the Audit Committee has sometimes said something about this. You have to dig it up and read what it says in the report. But now the Finnish Parliament must be able to intervene in such matters. Somewhere in North Karelia the same rent is charged as at the heart of Helsinki, although every reasonable person knows that the rent level is no more than a third of what it is here. Nevertheless, we only press the button every year that this is good. I'm really sorry about this. That is why I came to this podium to say this and I hope that someone in the State Inspectorate or in any other agency will experience, or even if the President of the Republic experiences a sting in his heart, that why such a system is allowed. Since this business is not going to start from the political point of view, I hope that someone sensible will be found in the crowd, however, that this system will be interfered with. If a private person were to pursue such a rental policy for a tenant, for example, it would be a sure trip to the district. Or, in particular, if there was still an underprivileged tenant involved, there would be other charges. But apparently, inside the government, this is a game. I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish Parliament, that someone will intervene in this absurdity. You can't go on like this, that we're about to have a system like that. The military can't pay anything but rent. Then all the rest of it will be less.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u554	Mr President! It is extremely important that the government has made significant efforts during its term of office to ensure the credibility of national defence. The dismantling of the Finnish army during previous governments has been stopped. We have been able to avoid the mistakes made by our western neighbour, Sweden, for example, in reducing the defence capability and entering the professional army. Sweden has returned to compulsory military service as a result of the tightening of the international security environment. However, the number of young people to be trained and their will to defend the country are quite different from Finland. Universal military service is the most effective and cost-effective defence solution in Finland. The reserve has been increased and the well-trained reserve army forms the backbone of Finland's defence. In addition, important material projects are ongoing at the Ministry of Defence to maintain the modern capability of various types of weapons, such as the Navy Fleet 2020 and the Air Force HX project. However, the political pressure on the Defence Forces' budgets continues. There is sometimes a hard public debate on the size categories of projects, but the direction of this government has been the right one. I would describe it as a very basic Finnish-looking policy. Mr President! In particular, the allocation of 100 new posts will be necessary to alleviate the shortage of personnel suffered by the Defence Forces. The new posts maintain operational readiness and the training of conscripts and prepare for new threats, for example by developing cyber defense. There are, however, many challenges for the economy. There is never too much money. Additional appropriations are also too often cut back on the ever-increasing costs of real estate. In the military defence budget, for example, farm costs are already 10.8%, and the trend is sharply upward. Indeed, the Minister of Defence has flashed the solution of separating the security properties from the Senate properties that manage the state’s real estate masses. The rental model that mimics the Senate real estate market and the rents that exceed the costs incurred by the State are a very special solution. However, defence and security are fundamental tasks of the state that they should not be subjected to market forces. The Minister of Defence's proposal to split up Senate properties is therefore absolutely to be welcomed. The members of the Defence Committee and the Administrative Committee of the People’s Party’s Parliamentary Group have therefore given him their cease-fire in the form of a measure initiative. Mr President! To conclude: Mr Hakanen raised a very important issue at the end of his speech, i.e. any invitations to the age groups or civic service. I myself have wondered how we would survive today if we had a crisis. It really doesn't have to be a state of war, it could be something else. If we have a situation, there is no electricity, no water, no heat, which of us can make open fire from fresh trees in the forest, if only the knife is the weapon. Can make heat, heat food, these basic conditions. This is extremely important and we need to think about how we will be prepared for future crises so that everyone will be able to deal with them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u555	At this point, Minister, from the canopy in a strong national defence spirit for 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u556	Mr President! Representatives Kanerva, Pakkanen and also Hakanen touched on international crisis management and Finland's role in peace-keeping. It is true that we used to talk about Finland as a great peace-keeping power, but we are still shouldering international responsibility today, and yes we are still a bigger factor in peace-keeping and crisis management. Can we raise the profile of Finland, then," asked Mrs. Kanerva. Probably, but it must be borne in mind that operations are more difficult today than they were in the past and that is why crisis management expenditure has increased all the time. During this term of government, in accordance with the Government Programme, we have largely eliminated smaller, so-called fragmentation operations and have been able to focus on the most impressive operations, both in terms of foreign policy and in terms of the development of national defence capabilities. For example, this UNIFIL operation together with France is a good example. Mr Kari raised the question of the garrison. I personally believe that it is not necessary to have a traditional military building stock, but rather to look at a lighter model of defence centres, which I have already mentioned would be very successful in developing voluntary defence. Perhaps it would be appropriate to consider this question during the next parliamentary term in connection with the presentation of the defence report. Yes, former garrisons have been sold to private individuals. And to Mr Kari, on the HX project, to record in the minutes that the full replacement of performance means at least 64 destroyers. Mr Jarva and Mr Kopra raised the issue of civic service. I would say to Mr Jarva that, in my view, the problem is not the lack of civil service, but the need for adequate support during military service. I'm sure the next government will take on this civil service scene. That is an acceptable idea in principle, but it must not reduce the military service and must not be out of the defence budget. Congressman Pelkonen asked about the physical condition of the garrison. Yes, the school is more responsible than there is still time to do in the military service. There will be no co-smoking during this reign. I would like to say to Mr Ronkainen that joining the Ottawa Agreement was a mistake and that we have now been able to live with that mistake. I hope that mistake will eventually be corrected in the future. I don't know if I'm gonna see that day. The next hinged item will of course be in next spring's government negotiations. But during this term of government it has been intended to look at new skills to replace the deterrent and territorial impact, i.e. we have tried to live with this problem and invented new capabilities. Representative Myllykoski mentioned the Arab Spring and what could be learned from it. At least it is pointless to bring democratic ideas to those regions that are not interested in or ready to do so. Congressman Vikman asked about the invitations. Of course, they can also be extended to women if desired. We must then have additional resources for this, for example the staff of regional offices should be doubled. More farms would be required. Let's talk about tens of millions. However, as the Defence Forces Commander said today in the interview with Yle, there is no need for defence. So it is more a question of equality if that is what we want to understand. Finally, on these simulations, Mrs Viljanen, I would like to say that they will certainly increase in education, but they cannot fully replace, in particular, the training of military personnel on the ground. And the use of the expertise of the reservists in cyber, for example, will be increasingly important in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u557	The list of speakers. Congressman Multala. - He's gone. Congressman Hongisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u558	I do not know whether Mr Hongisto is working, as Mrs Myllykoski said, but he is at least at work. — Mr President, to the Epistle of the Day: First of all, I would like to thank Minister Niinistö for his consistent compliance with the guidelines set out in the Government Programme. The records have been held unwaveringly and firmly as a soldier's style should be. The core of the lines is the Defence Report of 2017. The line is supported by the Government Resolution of 2016 on safeguarding the technological and industrial base of Finnish defence. It has been decided that any defence material that can be acquired from the country of origin will also be acquired from the country of origin. I think it is a fair and patriotic act that also employs Finns. Debates were held and concerns were raised about, for example, the adequacy of A-materials, and in Ostrobothnia and Riihimäki, too, there are facilities that produce excellent and good A-materials, of course, depending on the calibre and the diameter of the pipe. In Finland, there is the ability and skill and the will to produce A-ware, which are equally excellent and meet all quality standards. The Defence Administration, the Ministry and its departments and the Defence Forces have been regrouped in new positions since the major reforms. The division of territories and the use of troops have been decided. I think it is high time that we found out whether the defence power reform that was being carried out was the one that was being pursued. Did the stated objective have been achieved? If not achieved, is it appropriate to adjust the position of the tube? As Minister Niinistö said in his introductory statement, the Defence Forces are now more than just a training organisation. The Peacetime operational capability has also been built in the Army. Prior to the reform, the focus of the preparedness force was mainly in the Air and Navy. The stakes in the section have increased consistently. For the first time, the budget now exceeds EUR 3 billion. There are clear reasons for this. We must have new obsolete naval vessels, and there is also going to be the biggest investment of this century, the acquisition of multi-functional air force fighters. Changes in the security environment of our country have also required their own efforts. This is also reflected in increased defence cooperation. The Defence Forces have been able to cope with their training tasks and maintain their readiness in a reasonable but not painless manner. Human resources operate without reserve at very extreme limits. This has been referred to in several speeches. That is why it is very good that EUR 2 billion will also be proposed for next year's recruitment of contract soldiers, just as it was this year. This will reduce the shortage of trainers, but I do not think that it will solve the problem in its entirety, because a military servant cannot immediately replace a professional soldier. No matter how good it is in garrison language, a proficient garrison who has done his service well, he still does not replace a professional soldier and a trained person as a trainer. I believe that this will only be corrected by increasing the number of posts in the Defence Forces, in the same way as the police. The voluntary defence work must also be sufficiently supported to enable MPK and its organisations to provide military training to the Defence Forces' reservists. It is also important for MPK to contribute to training for young people and women in preparedness training. I believe that the committee's additional contribution to the MPK is necessary. Finally, when I was trained as a pioneer, I remember my own time in garrison, when we also received training for land-based anti-personnel mines. The 60 gram drill cartridge is surprisingly cheap and powerful to protect items or control enemy movements in the desired direction. The Minister has on many occasions considered the removal of the Ottawa mine ban. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have done the same. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u559	Mr President! Defending Finland as a whole, general military service, wartime troops based on reserve people — our so-called basic princes to hold onto. General military service is the only way we can produce a sufficient number of wartime troops. We have warning examples of our surroundings: if this foundation cornerstone is broken, it will not be lifted back. Our western neighbour, Sweden, learned from this mistake and has tried to restore military service without success. The will to defend the country is one of the key issues that was discussed after the MTS study. This study must certainly be taken seriously, and it may be worth considering why the fall in the will to defend the country is due to. Perhaps one part of it is that generations change and that contact with that postwar life no longer exists. When I myself recall how my grandmother told me about those times how difficult it was in many different ways, it contributed to the strong patriotism. There were also many veterans among us, very few of whom are left. In other words, we must be able to tell children and young people about these things, and schools certainly play a central role in this. National defense education should be given to our children and young people. A good partner in this is national defence organisations, which do a strong ideological work and, of course, maintain the fieldability of the reservists, but they would become a strong and a lot of the practical things we could give them. Mr. Speaker! Several major projects have been carried forward during this parliamentary term during this government. We have invested in preparedness, national defence has been developed in a variety of ways, we have had several legislative projects. One major project is the new role of the Defence Forces in providing and receiving international assistance. On the international side, the Minister has drawn up a number of bilateral framework agreements. EU defence has begun to develop. Finland has been involved in that core. NATO partnership has been developed. Voluntary national defence work is taking entirely new steps now, when the law that has just come to us in the Committee on Defence is moving forward next year. As far as the Army is concerned, material procurement has been invested in the Navy's Fleet 2020 when it is completed and has started preparing the Air Force's HX project, which will be our largest and largest project in the history of Finnish defence. All of these have been taken into account in the planning and also in the budget, and next year's budget will contribute to this. We are going over EUR 3 billion, and exactly EUR 3,138 billion. It adds EUR 266 million to this current year. In other words, strong action needs a budget, and even if it is tough, it must be obtained. Mr. Speaker! There is a task and a challenge. When we talk about these big acquisitions, they're going to be next decade. This means that the hands of many governments are tied to them, and it is therefore good that they have been promoted in parliamentary terms. And almost all parties are committed to the renewal of our Hornet equipment. There will be 64 fighters worth between EUR 7 and 10 billion, plus, of course, life-cycle costs, now that these are acquired for at least 30 years. The challenge is that of this so-called JTS billion, which is used to adjust public spending. When implemented, it would have a cumulative impact of around EUR 50 million in 29, i.e. what has now been set up, and this is, of course, an issue that must be reviewed, and I believe that this will be on the table for the next government negotiations. For all these things that we need for our defence, for our security, we need to be able to do so, and we need to have budget questions. Mr. Speaker! Defence is our common cause, and it will certainly continue to unite this Chamber. I thank you for a good debate that we have had together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u560	Mr President! As the Minister for Defence said, there is no need for the entire age group to perform military service. On the other hand, the need for defence is for the Defence Forces to have access to the best possible capabilities. That is why it would be justified to extend invitations to women as well. Invitations would give women the right time, at the right stage of life, information about the possibility of voluntary military service. It would be in the best interests of Finland’s defence ability to make the best possible capabilities available. It is not gender, but, above all, individual abilities, motivation and education that make it possible to cope with military service. Mr President! It is good that the development of defence maintenance focuses on the development of the capability of all defence branches, the replacement of decommissioned capabilities and intelligence, cyber defence and remote influence. This is done in such a way that there are no practical obstacles to a possible military alliance. The increase in the draft budget is mainly due to the contribution of the Marine Fleet 2020 project for 2019, amounting to EUR 260 million, and to the increase in military equipment procurement from EUR 110 million to EUR 130 million in accordance with the parliamentary study group report recorded in the Government Programme. The importance of the parliamentary working party was already mentioned here in the Chamber. I was allowed to be part of that group last season, and I consider the parliamentary way of working on defence issues to be highly justified. The work of the parliamentary study group on defence appropriations has proved to be a very effective and effective way of agreeing on defence resources. I welcome the fact that there will continue to be an agreement on defence solutions that goes beyond the parliamentary term, because the solutions are very long-term and therefore require lines that do not change from one government to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u561	Mr President! There has been a good debate today on this development of the defence administrative budget. Surely all parties can mainly welcome the fact that for the first time next year the defence budget will indeed rise by more than EUR 3 billion, and this will also provide for various security threats in the field of defence as well as in cooperation with other authorities and society. Of course, it is particularly good that resources are being increased for defence organisations. In particular, the role of voluntary defence organisations will increase for the general public in training on safety skills, and it is good that resources will also be strengthened in this respect. It is also very important that these resources be increased for the Defence Forces' staff so that more professional soldiers can be recruited, and also more contractual soldiers. There is an urgent need for more trainers and staff in the training of military personnel so that staff do not tire out in these tasks. It is also particularly good that military training is being developed. In the context of the Education 2020 programme, both the development of physical education and the development of mental resilience, their skills, the development of military equipment and various material solutions are under way, and we are moving towards models of other countries where individual needs can be taken into account so that everyone is able to perform the service as well as possible during the wartime, so that at least these materials are not caught. Mr President! In fact, more broadly to this theme of defence and how our training in defence should be developed in this regard. How can we ensure that the will to defend the country also remains high in Finland? Finland is well known for having an exceptionally high will to defend the country also in the age group of young people, but this development is not self-evident. As far as the will to defend the country is concerned, it is crucial whether people feel worthy of defending the country and what capacity they will have for carrying out the defence if necessary. Our security environment is also known to have changed, and we want to be prepared for different situations. That is why our legislation has been exceptionally developed during this period to develop the Defence Forces' preparedness and overall security. Every Finn is a defender of the country. According to the Finnish Constitution, everyone is also liable for national defence. Nevertheless, the state does not yet offer national defence training to everyone in Finland. These points contradict each other. At present, only men, or indeed only some men, and a very small proportion of women, are given the capacity to defend and act in times of crisis. However, according to studies, including the MTS study, it is women in Finland in particular who find their safety skills inadequate in crisis situations. The change in the operating environment underlines the resilience of society to crisis, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that the entire age group is given sufficient capacity to act in exceptional situations and that women's resources are not left unused in our society. The provision of national training needs to be maintained and even increased in the provision of security skills. In this respect, national defence organisations have made their own sarcasm and have also trained a significant number of women who are voluntarily trained. There is clearly more demand for training than there can be for courses, however. We should therefore catch more widely in this clear need, get more people the skills to act when something happens. Therefore, young people of all ages should be offered general safety skills at the latest in the second stage as part of school education in cooperation with authorities, national defence organisations and other voluntary actors. The safety course offered would be essential to learn how to work, for example, in the event of a blackout of electricity or in the event of an environmental crisis or any other abnormal situation. Basic security skills would strengthen the resilience of every citizen in the event of a natural disaster, cyber attack or other exceptional circumstances. We have also raised this issue in the Committee on Defence. Mr President! Much has also been said about extending invitations to all women and men. However, mere invitations do not increase preparedness; it is essential to enable operational training itself. The invitation itself must also be developed towards the call for the future that the centre has presented. Nor am I in favour of compulsory military service for everyone. It is important that we maintain universal military service, but that we develop military service towards civil service, in which universal military service is maintained, but in which the overall safety tasks are offered to the entire age group, to everyone, to certain tasks and capabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u562	Mr President! There has been a good debate here about the achievements of this government. I have to say myself that this has been a good and positive government for the Defence Forces and Finnish security, because it has been possible to improve the equipment and personnel situation of the Defence Forces in times of challenge, even though this increase in staff is now nothing more than 100 person years, but it is a positive thing at this stage. It has already been said that for the first time, the budget will exceed 3 billion. It is also historic, and that is why I see that this has been a positive and good government for the Defence Forces. The importance of parliamentary preparation here has been strongly emphasised. I myself see it as a necessary and, indeed, the only option in considering how the Defence Forces will be developed in the future. Is it then a military debate, which was well described in the speech we have just made, what needs to be done with it in the future, whether it is a matter of arms procurement or what — all of these need to have parliamentary preparation behind them. The Finns will have the will to defend themselves if we just think that our country is worth defending. In that sense too, I would see that the development of military service is one thing, which must then also be the subject of a good and wide-ranging debate. Senate properties have spoken here in many speeches. I also feel that the future of Senate real estate will have to have a lively debate next year and, at the latest, in the next government negotiations, what is its situation. It cannot be that all these public actors, both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, are taking up 10% or more of the budget resources in the administrative sector and, therefore, there is far too little money left to do. I hope that the forthcoming government negotiations will move forward on these issues. The importance of the Reservists and the role of national defence organizations will never be overemphasized. I myself would like to raise their importance in my own speech. They are important not only in terms of the will to defend the country but also in terms of this general military service. Reservilainen activities offer many good alternatives to Finnish voluntary activities, and thus involve third-sector actors in this group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u563	Mr President! General military service, extensive, regularly refreshed reserve, up-to-date equipment and well-functioning cooperation with authorities and stakeholders will make it possible to defend the country as a whole in a credible way. I agree that both women and men should be invited. Invitations should be developed in the direction of so-called future invitations. In them, a young woman, including every young woman, could go over matters related to her study situation, her health and her future plans together with professionals in different fields. Of course, this would require more resources, as the Minister has just said. Future invitations can be used to check progress towards the target of the Youth Guarantee. The fact that every young person has a view of the future, a meaningful path and tools to move towards education and work. For the last time, the whole age group can be reached in future invitations. I myself am of such an age that I have not had the opportunity to perform voluntary military service. Nevertheless, I too must have a role and expertise in exceptional situations. Total safety expertise should be invested in Finland. I would like to thank Parliament for having been given the opportunity to take a national defence course in addition to the regional courses already completed. They have clearly benefited from doing this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u564	Mr President! Finland's commitment to an agreement banning anti-personnel mines in Ottawa in 2011 was a major mistake. Finland is a vast and small country not belonging to military alliances, for which anti-personnel mines are an important part of the defence of the whole country. The justification for accession to the Treaty has been the irresponsible sowing of mines, which has taken place in some armed conflicts in recent decades, mainly in undeveloped countries. The solid experience of Finnish wars and peacetime exercises is that the locations of mines imposed by the Finnish Defence Forces have been recorded and well known. Civilian casualties to us have mainly been caused by mines deliberately planted by Nazi Germany in Lapland. There is no equally effective, inexpensive and low-risk solution replacing anti-personnel mines. Remote explosives and other alternative systems place their users in a completely different position and risk from mines. In addition, we have a long country border with a country that has not made a self-decrease in the performance of its army by committing itself to the Ottawa agreement. There have been critical votes for the agreement from the government's ranks and even from the Chief of Defence, who said that the agreement no longer applies in the event of a crisis. We are in the opposition supporting this critical voice. In fact, the members of the Finnish Defence Committee, the undersigned and representative Raatikainen, have proposed, by means of an initiative of measures, that Finland withdraws from the Ottawa Convention.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u565	Mr President! Finland is a huge country in terms of surface area compared to almost any country in Central Europe, and defending it must require very good preparation and, above all, the training of local forces so that the whole country can be defended. I have said on several occasions that I have somewhat envied the doctrine of the Defence Forces, a doctrine that says that the country is defended on every square. It would be good if this same doctrine were introduced in the state administration, so that every square in this country is as valuable as it is, and would therefore get a little bit of that action on your part other than in the big cities. But that's another story, and that's not gonna work out in this section. I went there in peace in my own office to study the law on the Finnish Defence Forces, so I thought to myself that Article 2 of the Defence Forces Act Paragraph 5 should be added, which would say that rent is paid which does not make any sense. It could be in its Article 2, paragraph 5, quite clearly. For example, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is now dealing with reform and legislation on social and health care, and there has been a lot of discussion there about whether or not we should not not not not do this new bill. Well, let that conversation stay there. That is all I have to say about it. At the same time, however, we are discussing economics as a major, major debate in this Chamber. For example, I'm referring to the VA surgery, I think, 64 cents. There was a huge noise. It is quite right that it should be addressed and it should be removed from the agenda. That's the way it's supposed to be. But then we like to spend huge millions of dollars on this kind of senseless real estate business without blinking through the Senate properties. A Border Guard official and I talked to a locality in Finland last summer while I was on a trip. I met him out of the blue at their market. We were having coffee. He found that they have such a problem when they also have Senate properties as a host, that they have poor premises and that they are now in the process of planning, that Senate properties would fix them up, and then their working environment for office staff and the rest of the staff would be significantly improved. But the problem is that when they were repaired, the rent will rise so high that they will not be able to be there. I wonder if this is the right thing to do now, that we are afraid of repairing and being in a bad building and after we have to fix it, it cannot be done. I've read a book about fools once, and this little one reminds me of the kind of shit they do in this country. I think someone should get involved now. I remember that the Audit Committee in one of its opinions... We'll have to dig it up. I'm sure the information service will help. But now, Mr President, I would like to see this matter finally and finally addressed. So many people have spoken to me about this that I would like to see action taken in this matter one day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u566	Mr President! The credibility of the Finnish defence system, Finland’s defence solution, consists of Finland’s extensive international trust, the proactive functioning of our defence system, the up-to-date equipment and the will to defend the country and the reserve operations that sustain it. And it is a pleasure to note the comprehensive consideration of these areas in the state budget next year. The Ministry of Defence's budget proposal for its own section for 2019 amounts to more than EUR 3 billion 100 million, which is almost 300 million more than in the current year, and the increase will actually increase the share of spending in the Ministry's section, perhaps even historically. That would be the case. Indeed, this increase is veryrequired in this overall review,since the costs of the ‘Laivue2020’ project will Otherwise, the level of equipment, equipment and materials must be maintained and updated to meet today's and future needs. Fortunately, we are not compromising on this now, even if there is a need for much greater reform. It is worrying that there is a certain inadequacy in the human resources of military trainers. However, it has been successfully fixed and additional funds have now been found to support, among other things, the ability to operate better and the obligation to train, as well as to maintain and develop new capabilities. After all, Finland is known in the world as an international bearer of responsibility, advocate and guardian of peace, and this is something we should also stick to in the future. We are part of this global world, and this is where we are well known. At the moment, Finland's military crisis management priorities are in Lebanon, Iraq and Afghanistan, and we must continue to have the capacity to deploy troops for such operations when it is necessary to maintain peace and in line with Finland's defence policy solution. Of course, all these resources are scarce in these respects too, but they are a valuable form of cooperation between countries. They also enable the Defence Forces' main personnel as well as the reservists to maintain and develop their own know-how in these tasks and to gain valuable experience. Important reserve operations and voluntary national defence activities enable us to maintain and update the know-how of our reservists in a rapidly changing global society, where security threats have also changed quite quickly for a while. Reservist activities and voluntary national defence activities increase our social strength to responsible and well thought-out team leadership, action and practical military skills. And it is important that these planned changes to the reorganization of voluntary defence do not have a negative impact on the operating conditions of, for example, MPK and its member organisations. Securing and enabling the preconditions for reservist and voluntary national defence activities with financial resources means a great deal to the credibility of our defence system, its development and the will to defend our country. I am confident that this budget proposal will go in the right direction and will be able to maintain the credibility and performance of our defence system and also the will to defend the country, hopefully in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u567	Congressman Hakanen still intervened. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-18-ps-133.u568	Mr President! I came back to my seat, and I thought I would take the floor briefly from here. — I listened to Mrs Parviainen's comments, and I would also like to make my own contribution more specific to the fact that I was talking about civic service and invitations for the entire age group. I think that Mrs Parviainen has just brought one thing into our minds in a great way, something that we need to put deep into our minds when we begin to prepare for the invitations and civic service of the entire age group. Representative Parviainen said that it may be the last moment to get the entire age group together — perhaps the last moment to get the whole age group together. I think that this should be deeply remembered and, on that basis, also start a campaign to prevent social exclusion in such a way that we can get those young people still at that age to listen to what the Finnish Defence Forces have to offer through voluntary service, which the various non-governmental organisations have to offer through voluntary service, so that young people can be activated by different approaches and doctrines, to implement themselves, train and go a little outside their comfort zone, and thus to be one strong link in the future to maintain security of supply, a crisis like a crisis. It may be that only a part of the skills are needed, but then in some way young people would be caught up in the crisis management skills and abilities, so that, as a nation, they could actually take crisis preparedness from one age group to another and maintain security of supply. This is also extremely important to the extent that we will not be able to receive voluntary invitations from young people today except those who are most active. But when the young age group as a whole is invited to the event, it is like mass movement in such a way that it goes in exactly the same way as to go to the showroom or go to the youth disco. So this is the kind of thing that we need to take into account the power of the group and the networking of young people and thus find added value in this performance so that we get a significant civic service — whatever the terminology is. As Minister Niinistö said today, these costs cannot be covered today, but we can start here with a very small cost structure when we start off in such a way that we simply go out and gather young people and involve non-governmental organisations and try to get this crisis management through voluntary action. Then, Mr President, I would like to correct one more point that I said in my previous speech when I particularly thanked the Minister for the strong involvement of staff in the reform of the Defence Forces. That's not exactly what happened when I remembered those old conversations on the hard drive. It was a bit of a backseat, and we got the personnel organisations involved when it was being hopped up. It wasn't exactly straightforward, but they got in.
