ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 3 April 2018. In the debate, Timo Harakka Pia Viitanen has proposed that Parliament approve the proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 1. With the support of Mr Kari Uotila, Mr Yanar has proposed that the bill be rejected and that Parliament approve the proposal for a statement under protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u2	The vote will take place first on the adoption or rejection of a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u3	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. The first is to vote against Mr Haraka's proposal and then against Mr Yanar's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u4	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 3 April 2018. In the debate, Mika Raatikainen, supported by Leena Mere, has proposed that Parliament adopt a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u5	Finally, it is necessary to decide on the draft statement contained in the report and the draft statement made in the debate. Mr Raatikainen's draft statement shall be put to the vote against the draft statement contained in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u6	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u7	Mr President, ärade talman! The Government’s proposal proposes to reform the organisation of the Public Prosecutor’s Office so that the Prosecutor’s Office and the prosecutor’s offices under its authority are formed into a single office called the Prosecutor’s Office. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u10	Madam President! If I may quote the author Paavo Haavikko a little bit: “Before you ask for a right, be sure that you will not be harmed. “ This is how sarcasticly and pessimisticly the judiciary was at one time viewed by the academician and author Paavo Haavikko. With this new bill we are in the process of ensuring that everyone gets justice and moderation in the big and dramatic reversals of their lives, for in the great reverse and the storms of life people are in when they end up dealing with prosecutors, the police and the judiciary. We want to make sure that the courts in our country share justice. It must be based on skills, expertise and wisdom. We now have the DA's office in charge of the reform. Thus, as we heard earlier at the Minister's mouth, one of the prosecutors' offices is formed from the Public Prosecutor's Office and the eleven prosecutors' offices under its authority. What is being pursued, and what is being gained? — Let's take a look at it this way. — Of course, here in Parliament, we legislators want to see greater efficiency and harmonisation. The prosecution service is working on people’s affairs — people who are often at the weakest, who have been wronged or who have done wrong to another person. Man cannot always choose his own adversities. Sometimes life just gets calm and sometimes there's a storm. However, we legislators can ensure that anyone who comes into contact with prosecutors in one way or another gets equal rights and equal treatment. The prosecutor is a state authority which is also objectively responsible for ensuring that a criminal offence is punishable by the law. The prosecutors are and must be the perfect professionals in their field. At the same time, the world is increasingly demanding of them expertise and expertise in specialised fields. Finland’s security environment and internal security challenges have changed very significantly in recent years. The organisation of the Prosecutor’s Office as a single agency will facilitate and simplify the work of specialised prosecutors. The work input can be directed towards the most important tasks of special expertise at national level. The specialisation system will be reformed, thereby improving the legal quality of the prosecution’s work — and, of course, the knowledge of prosecutors. At the same time, the expertise of prosecutors can be developed centrally. After the reform, the D.A.’s agencies become one of the agencies: the D.A.’s services. Its departments are clearly larger than the current prosecution offices and, we believe, more efficient. This will improve the legal security and equality of citizens before the law. The aim is to make national, centralised activities similar, regardless of where the crime took place, whether in Kihniö, Savukoski or the Turku archipelago. Unified working processes, on the other hand, increase the consistency of prosecution practices, which is also one of the central objectives of the Prosecution Service. According to the proposal, the potential of new information systems could be used most effectively as a single agency. One of the main problems with the prosecution system has been the fact that there are, strangely enough, too few prosecutors in relation to the number of criminal cases. The new organisational model facilitates the problem and improves the efficiency of handling and, as estimated, shortens processing times: people do not have to wait years for justice. It is also a matter of great importance for the legal protection of every citizen. Hanging on a loose hang is not delicious. The preparation of the law has involved a wide range of parties. We Blues also think it is important to carefully review the prosecution's criticism of some of the details of the reform. The aim is that the new organization is good for everyone, that the prosecutor can do his job as well as possible, and that people get justice and moderation in the greatest upheavals of their lives in the best possible and fair way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u11	Mr President! This is a reform of the Public Prosecutor’s Office, which is one part of the government’s extensive judicial reforms. After all, we have district courts that will be cut off, and that law was just under review. Of course, the fact that the prosecution system will become one of the national agencies can also bring with it strengths, such as opportunities to specialise and manage matters more effectively. After all, the prosecution's work is extremely important in the rule of law and in terms of legal security, that people are given the right to justice, that victims are given the right to justice and that matters are dealt with quickly and in a high-quality manner. Mr Torvinen spoke a long time ago, and at the end he referred to the criticisms raised by the District Attorney's Association. It is therefore important that the Committee on Legal Affairs carefully examine these issues raised. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he feels about these raised concerns, which are quite serious, such as the fact that, now that the entire prosecution system is the same unit, the prosecution could be transferred without consent to the whole territory of the kingdom. This can mean hundreds of kilometres, and so it is, of course, difficult for families if this happens. The Public Prosecutor's Association has proposed the removal of the problem by providing that the post can be transferred outside the territory of employment only with the consent of the official, which means that the area of employment, that 80 km, as if it were the limit and then the worker's own consent. I would also like to ask why we are now presenting temporary posts to prosecutors, because continuity and independence in this work are extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u12	Mr President! According to the Government’s proposal, the formation of a prosecutor’s office as a single agency will facilitate and simplify the activities of prosecutors specialising in specific matters. This is a very good thing. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this specialisation system will become more important in the future. The Government’s proposal states that ‘The challenges of Finnish security and internal security have changed significantly in recent years’. This is a sad and unfortunate fact. We must therefore do everything we can to ensure that the specialisation of prosecutors and the correct allocation of labour input work really works effectively. International crimes, and in particular terrorist offences, require decisive action, and the flexibility of the prosecutor's office is needed when these crimes extend to Finland as well. The problem with the prosecution system is that it is taking far too much time to prosecute. We need more resources there. We do not have so much money to give, but I hope that this proposal will help us to really have more resources to concentrate on matters and speed up the prosecution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u13	Madam President! The Government’s proposal now before us harmonises the prosecution system into one national prosecutor’s office, and the law in force is being repealed, and the new law will take us to a new age when there is a single prosecutor’s office in the country, which is a national prosecutor. This allows prosecutors to specialise. It must be remembered that under the circumstances of this world, financial crime, for example, has already become such a complex and enormously demanding area that it clearly requires that the prosecutor in his own office be a top professional and able to bring the matter, the prosecution, to court quickly. This is a question of a person being charged with a crime, according to our Constitution, having a right to a decision in his own case within a reasonable time, and then, if necessary, being able to appeal to a higher court. So I'm going to ask Minister Häkkasse: Now that the new law is at the decision-making stage here in Parliament, how do you see that this constitutional objective is being fulfilled, that this new prosecution reform will speed up this court's proceedings, this process, so that the accused person will then get his own case dealt with quickly and get a court decision which he can then appeal against? How do you see whether this is an accelerated procedure?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u14	Mr President! As a representative of the People’s Republic of Finland, I also met these representatives of the Prosecution Society, and they raised these problems. I will now ask the Minister here and then send my greetings to the committee, that you go through very carefully, these were very important things that came to light, especially this, that if there is one unit and these are joint posts, then can the person be moved without consent. This may also affect the unrestrained person — or it is said that he is very quick to pursue certain criminal matters with his independence and perhaps not liked. There's a lot of such concerns that I don't think we're using this power wrong. The second question was that, when regional prosecutors are appointed by the Prosecutor General, or by the Chief Prosecutor, does it affect — when they are in the lead — whether they dare to criticise and be independent, and if we compare, for example, the judges of the Court who are again appointed by the President, it is very different when their own superior does not, so to speak, appoint his own subordinates. It may not necessarily bring the best possible progress and criticism there within the agency. If they are still in temporary employment, then it may be that the fixed term does not continue. This is the kind of thing that came up at this meeting. I really urge the Committee on Legal Affairs to reflect on this. One more thing I would like to draw attention to: they put it this way that if the prosecutor is a private party, a defendant, in a criminal case, then if there is one agency, how has this issue of obstruction been considered? This was one thing that came up in that criticism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u15	Madam President! The pace of judicial reform is pretty intense. One reform after another comes, and the impact assessments are rather weak in oxygen. It seems that we have started with these reforms and then we will see how they work and then we will make improvements afterwards. There has been a lot of discussion here about the level of legislation and how careful it should be to prepare the law, and I would like the Ministry of Justice to be here as a leader to show us how good legislation is to be put into practice. There is a reform of the district court which is not yet known where it will lead. Then there is the reform of the enforcement agency — it is also not known how it will work in practice. Then there is the state Aipa project, this computer and software reform, which according to the latest information can only be implemented in autumn 2019. Then there is the reform of the Court of Justice, which is being considered. There is a huge number of reforms, and I would have liked them to have come on a slightly lighter cycle in order to see these effects on the various reforms. Now, the starting point is that, through the organisation, this will increase the effectiveness of the prosecution's action, but that too is quite thin. And, as has already been said here, the Association of Prosecutors has brought out some powerful points of view, and I believe that we will then go through these in committee even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u16	Mr President! This proposal is an administrative change which modernises the structure of the prosecutor's office and, among other things, brings the titles better into line with the nomenclature of the rest of the judiciary. These changes can be expected to improve efficiency and release resources for the work of the actual prosecutor. These changes have been widely supported in the opinion feedback. True, some have criticized the appointment of higher officials for a limited period of time. This is, of course, an issue that may improve or weaken the matter, we will see. But what goes on in this matter is, of course, an old saying that ‘no right can be obtained in the country’. On this point, Minister for Justice, I would like to ask: now that we want to increase resources, we need more resources, so would it be possible, at this point, to address the side effects of summary matters in terms of how they increase activity? Just as an example of a case where a person gets into or gets into a health centre or hospital or dentist and this bill will not be paid. This is a completely uncontroversial matter, you have to pay the bills, don't you think? If the person is unable to pay for it and the case is transferred to the enforcement office, that is all right. If this case has been collected by the collection office and the person is able to pay for it, then everything will be in order, but then the collection costs of the collection office will go to the district court and, of course, increase the prosecutor’s workload there. If this tour were prevented, it would improve the position of a person in distress and help him to get away from his debts and, in fact, remove some extra work even from the prosecution’s office. This sounds like a small thing in this context, but for the half a million people who are currently in enforcement and for more than 400,000 who are paying these extra costs for summation through enforcement, this is a big deal. And, indeed, at a time when reforms are being carried out, I hope that this will be included in a specific examination and that you can see if there is any improvement in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u17	Madam President! Quite often, when the judicial system is discussed, it is as if it is overlooked that the role of the prosecutor is also to be an impartial and objective civil servant. It cannot be overemphasized, although in practice it does not always appear that way or that is what many people feel. The fundamental Finns have now raised the serious concern expressed by the representative of the Sea that this government proposal jeopardises the neutrality of prosecutorial appointments and creates the possibility that those in the head office will then be able, through concentration, to move the undesirable or difficult prosecutors aside in some way from the Turkish model. Is this a problem, and how have you dealt with this concentration in the Ministry of Justice from the point of view of the Chiefs?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u18	Mr President! We've had quite a close trial of the judiciary. These reduction decisions have already been brought here many times for Parliament to decide, and last year's decisions will reduce even more judicial places in the future. These reforms have been carried out in pursuit of reform without an assessment of the results and the social impact of these decisions. That's why I'm asking, Minister, when you have a long time's experience of organisational changes like this: They are always intended to seek greater efficiency and measures to achieve effective work, but in practice they have always proved to be such that there have been reductions in the number of man-years of work. Is this the kind of person-year reduction you need?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u19	Madam President! In Finland, both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the entire judicial system, a rather long process has been carried out, in which the engagement municipalities were established in the early 1990s, and the system was also dismantled, which was a functioning, old system of officials. That was the problem, in a way, of such a question of legal security. The officer was both chief of police and was in charge of the investigation, after which he served as prosecutor and finally also as head of enforcement. So he had three hats in his head, and this system was dismantled, which in itself worked, and especially in small towns and regions it was certainly quite good. But, of course, the point of view of legal protection for the accused or the convicted person got a little tricky because the guy I knew met at every turn. In any case, we are now in a situation where our entire judicial system, the prosecution system, is being pushed forward. Assessing how good this is going to be — time will look like it. But it is also a question of resources and their allocation and, as has been said here, knowledge is very important in today's time. Circumstances, learning, information technology, legislation are changing all the time, and it also requires professionalism from a prosecutor who must be able to know exactly what is at stake and find the right solutions for which the court will finally decide. At this stage, you can probably only estimate that we are in a fairly long circle of justice and Finland is taking the development forward for its part.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u20	Madam President! Minister, at the beginning of your speech you said that it is important that this whole system works in such a way that the preliminary investigation, the prosecutor, the court and the enforcement play together and there are no bottlenecks. Perhaps we have had them here recently, however, and perhaps in the case of the prosecutor, and that is why it is very important, of course, that this is seen from the point of view of the whole picture, that things are smooth and that resources are sufficient where they are needed, that is, in the whole chain itself. This is therefore very important, and I hope that this aspect of the committee will be examined whether the system will now be available through this reform and the possible reform of the judiciary to ensure that this happens. On the other hand, I'm interested in this split. Now the Prosecutor General is clear, it is a national, then the regional prosecutors, and then there are also the regional prosecutors, and I think there is still a unit underneath — I do not have a bill here. I understood that the regional prosecutors are in line with the court districts — at least apparently so — but what role will this regional prosecutor play, will they remain in the present provinces and in the whole of Finland, or will they also be concentrated? However, there is the possibility of a radical concentration in this system, which has now taken place, and, of course, it must be considered very carefully that legal protection is not jeopardised by the over-centralisation of these services and functions of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u21	Then Minister Häkkänen's answer, no more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u22	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions and the debate. First of all, in general terms. It is exactly what has been said in this many speeches: if we want criminal liability to be effective, but on the other hand, all the principles of the state of law and the quality of legal protection are taken into account, then it is the prosecution that is the key issue. The police collect evidence and carry out pre-trial investigations, the prosecutor legally assesses whether certain characteristics are legally fulfilled and evaluates the material collected as an independent judicial authority, separated from the police, and then two parties, the defendant and the prosecutor, with their own evidence, present the evidence, and the court independently resolves these matters. There must be sufficient resources for each stage of the process, and organisational changes are also needed in order to be able to specialise in the increasingly difficult and complex phenomena of crime in a changing world. This is why resources alone are not always a key issue, but how to lead, train staff, offer the opportunity to specialise in difficult financial crimes, for example. Now, if you look at the economic revolution that more and more things are happening in the digital environment, perhaps in the world of artificial currencies, in the world of difficult technology and the international environment, then this requires that every actor in the criminal chain must be able to specialise in these matters with its resources and with its methods of action. That is why we have to carry out the reforms that have just been called for in this Chamber in every sector. We must develop the rule of law in such a way that our authorities are increasingly on the wave of knowledge where other societies are going. That is why these reforms are being carried out. As regards referrals by prosecutors: These are perfectly normal questions under the Civil Service Act. For the purpose of pressure, no transfer shall take place. There's got to be a proper basis if there's going to be a transfer. These are quite exceptional cases if some posts are to be postponed. Then, with regard to the role of regional prosecutor, which is always a sort of head of a region, it is a fixed-term post, five years, as is now the case with district court leaders. So it's an administrative executive, not a judicial function. In their judicial duties, they are independent and independent, but in five years' time, the leader can be replaced if, for some reason, the shop does not succeed. That is why, in a way, this temporaryity is involved. Level of law drafting: The Ministry of Justice will continue to be the flagship here, not worry about it. These reforms are well thought out. Of all the reforms, it is not possible to say in exact terms what the effects are, but it is already known that, broadly speaking, such structural reforms will lead to good results. In general terms, the objective for this project in the long term is perhaps to achieve some savings, but above all to improve the level of knowledge within the current framework of scarce resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u23	Mr President! I would have made this more specific. The Minister was responsible for the terms of office of the regional leaders, which are five years — the seat of its leader, the director, is fixed — but is it the idea that these actors have a post there and then only five years as leaders and then, after that deadline, return to that permanent office, or did I understand correctly what the Minister said?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u24	Is the Minister still willing to respond? One minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u25	Mr President! If, for example, a person has normally applied for office in a normal post as an engagement attorney, these go under the ordinary civil servants’ law, i.e. in such a case there may still be a post. I don't know, these things go according to normal civil servants' law. I would like to emphasise that these regional leadership posts are, in the same way as all state administration posts, also on the District Court side, a management function and a position of director of administrative organisation, not so much a judicial function. This specifically ensures that judicial tasks are independent and independent, but if you are the head of the organisation, they are not, in principle, lifelong.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u26	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u27	Mr President! It is therefore a question of changes to the Rescue Act, the Rescue College Act and the Fire Protection Fund Act. The main issue, of course, is the implementation of the regional reform in the field of rescue and also the reorganisation of the state's licensing and control tasks, and in these areas the legislative reforms would therefore enter into force on 1 January 2020. At the same time, the Government proposes changes to the Rescue Act in relation to the prevention of oil and vessel chemical damage, so that their prevention function is focused specifically on the Border Guard in the form of rescue operations, the clarifications relating to the training of rescue personnel and contract staff, and also on civil protection obligations. Therefore, amendments would be made to the Rescue College Act, in particular regional defence courses, joint preparedness and disturbance exercises in the provinces and the training of auxiliary personnel and contract staff in the field of rescue would be specified specifically as the tasks of the Emergency Rescue College and as a regional reconciliation task coordinated by the provinces. In particular, the Fire Protection Fund would provide clarification of its performance management and increase the possibility of assisting the provinces. Local authorities could also continue to be assisted by the Fire Protection Fund. At the same time, a number of existing provisions will be repealed for technical reasons. I'm not going to go over it again. With regard to these substantive details, the changes I listed in relation to the Rescue Act, the basic approach to civil protection, which is to be taken here, is that Finland continues to provide comprehensive protection for the entire population in such a way that, in the construction process, there is an obligation, first and foremost, for the building permit authority, the municipality, to ensure that there are sufficient population protection in all areas. At the same time, efforts will be made to ease the cost of construction by including the civil protection on the ground outside the floor area of the floor area, i.e. the building right, and also to remove the obligation to build civil protection from certain buildings on a building-by-building basis, where it has been relatively expensive and less necessary, such as sports training buildings, warehouses, horseback riding manoeuvrings and tin-building halls. At the same time, it will also enable and contribute to the implementation of common population protection measures by extending the so-called protection distance from 250 metres to 500 metres and by facilitating the conditions for planning and agreeing common protection of the population in regional construction where these conditions are maintained in any case. In this respect, the role of the municipality’s building permit authority is further strengthened by considering how these conditions are met for the site and site concerned. The Ministry of the Interior will, of course, play a role in this, but the main responsibility for this will in itself be passed on to the municipalities, which then, on the basis of advice from the safety authorities, will make these decisions for each area of residence. In the course of the consultation, the draft law has mainly been carefully considered also in relation to these transfers of powers, and of course there are some details which will certainly complement the implementation details at the implementation stage. I welcome the fact that Parliament is also discussing details in the committees and in the plenary session, so that in this area, in which we in Finland have a great deal of confidence that the rescue tasks are well understood and equally carried out in this country, this will continue to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u29	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Rescue Act, among other things. Amendments to the Rescue Act would be made to receive assistance and international assistance under the rescue action. In this regard, too, I attach great importance to the government's proposal. Article 38 of the Rescue Act provides for decisions to be taken on the provision or request of international assistance. The status of personnel involved in providing assistance is governed by the law on the participation of civilian personnel in crisis management. Currently, the existing legislation does not include provisions on the role and responsibilities of municipalities, provinces, rescue services or rescue services in international rescue operations. The possibility of making use of special equipment and equipment acquired to provide international assistance, as well as of staff trained and trained for the task in the event of a domestic accident, has proved unclear. I welcome the fact that the law is being clarified here. According to Section 6(1)(4) of the Regional Code, the province’s mission is to provide rescue services. In accordance with point 2(5) of the same law, the province can also manage international and European Union affairs and contacts in relation to the tasks of the province. Such action would require the Province to have access to the financial resources necessary for the operation. At the moment, this may not be the case. The obligations of the province to participate in international rescue operations are limited to the tasks and responsibilities of the province in its domestic field of responsibility. The readiness to provide rescue assistance abroad would be based on the knowledge, preparedness and service level of the regions in accordance with their national risks. Mr President! Last year I was allowed to accompany four of the Barents countries in Ruskeala, Russia, and around Petrozavodsk. This once again showed that there is still a need for cooperation between countries. The training involved nearly 900 rescue professionals from four Arctic countries and observers from Iran, among others. The rescue exercise was an excellent example of cooperation between Finland, Sweden, Norway and Russia. Of course, in each of the participating countries, there was also more investment in the exercise than usual, and not all parts of the exercise met the Finnish occupational safety requirements, for example. The trainings tested the cooperation between fire and rescue services and emergency care in a number of different accident situations. In addition to traditional fire-extinguishing equipment, there were also motorcycles and rescue helicopters in Russian use. In my opinion, the action was very effective and required the role and seamless cooperation of the various national authorities. As a follow-up to the exercises, I am happy to say that Finnish fire and rescue services and emergency care are still at the top of the world. We can also be learned in neighbouring countries. Cooperation in the field of rescue enables cooperation between Finland and Russia in the event of accidents. Cooperation between countries is based on the State Agreement between Finland and Russia on cooperation to prevent accidents and to combat their consequences. Over the years, local and regional authorities have established cross-border, good cooperation relationships which are important to maintain. Finns travel abroad more and more each year and may suddenly need help in a major accident. I therefore consider it important that the authorities responsible for everyday safety should be able to train together across borders, develop and develop their equipment for the benefit of all of us. Mr President! As far as the funding of operations is concerned, I see threats. In Finland, national cooperation between Finland and Russia and international rescue assistance operations decided by the Ministry of the Interior are financed by state revenue and expenditure estimates. The criteria and practices for the use of this appropriation have been designed in cooperation with representatives of border rescue services and regional government agencies. There are no specific funding schemes in the state budget to finance local-level cooperation with Russia, as funding for cooperation in neighbouring areas has been discontinued. In this respect, the financing of cross-border cooperation at local level is based on the own funding of rescue services. The continued cooperation of the rescue services in Eastern and Northern Finland with operators on the Russian side is justified and supported in every respect. At the same time, the rescue cooperation between the Arctic countries and the financing of local cooperation must continue to be ensured. Cooperation between them must not stop. Special facilities, equipment and equipment created and acquired by the State and at costs for assistance abroad are also available to the provinces for rescue operations required by accident situations on the same basis as their own resources. In this way, the special preparedness of international rescue operations comes to the domestic capacity of the provincial rescue services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u30	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend a number of laws related to the rescue action. Most of the changes are due to the establishment of provinces and legislation on the implementation of regional reform and the reorganisation of state authorisation, control and control functions. The law updates and clarifies the whole rescue sector, and it also takes into account our country's international obligations to provide and receive rescue assistance. The draft law also takes into account matters related to training in this field from contract and secondary staff to permanent rescue staff. In addition, provisions relating to civil protection will be clarified, including the construction of shelters. Mr President! The bill is to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u31	Madam President! I am pleased to welcome this Government's proposal to reduce the obligation to build shelters, in particular. This will contribute to the progress and realisation of Juha Sipilä's Government's deregulation work, and this is a genuine and genuine dismantling of standards and a reduction in red tape. Finland is one of the few countries in the world where population protection is still being built. We have about 600 buildings a year to build a shelter. It is therefore necessary to ask whether we are overestimating the construction of population facilities in buildings today. I therefore welcome the fact that we are now trying to think about which buildings are to be built and on what basis we could not oblige the construction of these shelters. However, we will continue to build shelters according to our own dimensions and can therefore be prepared for these threats, the threats to the civilian population. In particular, three points are now being taken into account for the dismantling of standards for civil protection: the removal of the obligation to build relatively expensive shelters, for example, from tin-built halls, horseback riding manes and warehouses, and the introduction of common shelters is now possible. As a rule, we have had to build a shelter in each building separately. This too is a welcome reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u32	Madam President! As the Minister said in his own presentation, this government proposal proposes to amend, among other things, the Rescue Act, the Rescue College Act and also the Fire Protection Fund Act. Several speeches have already gone through this government proposal. I would also like to say this in relation to the issue of civil protection. It is very good that we are reducing our civil protection obligations. I particularly welcome the fact that it is now easier to build centralised shelters, not those which come into each building separately. This may also provide more sports facilities and other similar facilities for use. And what is very good is that these exceptions to the construction of shelters, which up to now — the Regional State Administrative Agency has been able to grant — will also be decided by the municipalities. Thus, in practice, the municipal building permit authority can decide on exceptions to civil protection construction. The second thing I want to raise is the amendment to the Fire Protection Fund Act. It is now good that, in this government proposal, the provinces will be included among the beneficiaries of the aid from the Fire Protection Fund. But, Minister, I would like to ask you one more question: At present, the municipality can receive assistance for building a rescue service, for example, when the municipality owns it. But now that many municipalities have in practice put into practice the ownership of buildings by companies that own 100 % of the municipalities, could we go to the point where these companies that own 100 % of the municipalities could also receive subsidies for these buildings and, in the same way, when the equipment has already gone to the present time, that there are leasing equipment and similar equipment, there could be aid for these too?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u33	Madam President! In Finland, fire and rescue services are top-notch, and safety is now perhaps more prominent than it has been for a long time now, in discussions and also in people's minds: internal security, safety in everyday life, but also external security, and it is good that we are concerned about this whole. I would like to thank Mr Mykkänen, and also his predecessor, for taking this issue of civil protection forward. This is a question which is more of its own in terms of living and building. Although studies show that the impact of population protection on housing costs is not very significant, this is precisely a rationalisation exercise: reducing obligations, removing certain areas where public protection is not necessary, and then building common population protections. In other words, it will be possible to build common population shelters a little longer in the future for a larger population, and it will make sense to see what Mrs Torniainen has pointed out, namely that of functionality and the exploitation of their places. At the moment, they are often in storage and in other places, but we can now combine facilities such as physical exercise or different activities with these, and this gives a great deal of flexibility to municipalities, i.e. municipalities and housing companies, for example, to make such joint entities. Mr President! I personally hope that in future greater attention will also be paid to the indoor air problems of the population shelters. They have been observed in many different places, especially in these that have been built underground.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u34	Madam President! These legal changes are largely based on the fact that the provincial administration is being built up and then the rescue service is also undergoing structural changes. Of course, this cooperation with social and health care — emergency care, medical transport — is extremely important, but also, as has been so much raised in this legislation on these issues of environmental protection, this cooperation at regional level should be carried out a great deal, because if we think there is, for example, the fight against environmental damage and the restriction of these, we also need cooperation with environmental protection authorities. I would have asked the Minister when these fire brigades also play a very central role here in the operation of the rescue services: How will it be ensured that in the future the status of these contract fire brigades and contract firefighters around Finland will be fully taken into account and that we also have availability and at least a level of what is today? And is it the case that, at this provincial level, the adequacy of the members of these fire brigades, for example, will be considered regionally, or how will this be resolved for their part in the future? In many small towns, after all, these professional firefighters only have a handful and these contract fire brigades account for a considerable proportion. I would therefore like particular attention to be paid here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u35	Mr President! This is indeed behind this regional reform, many of the changes related to it. This regional reform will also bring about an even greater role in emergency care and an even greater transfer of urgent medical transport. This must also be due to the fact that the EU is calling for this unconditional competition. And on this point: in the introduction you mentioned that this should continue to be safeguarded and the people should trust it. The reform of education is something that has also been mentioned in the Government Programme, and this growing share of emergency care in the rescue service in my opinion requires that the comparison of the rescuer's vocational qualification with the qualifications of a nurse and the professional title of social welfare and health care is a necessary step that this will continue to be a functioning system in the future. So at what point is the reform of rescue training mentioned in the Government Programme expected?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u36	Madam President! This is, I think, the third part of the rescue-related changes in the next year in connection with this so-called regional government, that is to say, the former social reform. It may be that at some point there is a question of how to keep this under control in that committee when there are more than one package on the rescue side. Perhaps my first question is that, while there are undoubtedly very good points here, such as this facilitation of the construction of population protection so that these collective protections can exist or that they can be changed otherwise, why is it tied to 2020? Or is it the case that these solutions for the protection of the population could already be in force, even from this summer?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u37	Madam President! I personally put the view in these books on parliamentary affairs that I, in itself, support such deregulations and the idea of abolishing the unnecessary norm, unnecessary legislation, legislation that has become unnecessary over the years, but I would like to remind you of the primary use of shelters. In other words, when something unexpected, unpleasant and surprising happens in a society that endangers the safety of citizens, these shelters are extremely necessary. And such events do not look at the time and place and not necessarily even at the place where the citizens are and need shelters. Whether there is an industrial fire nearby or another similar event that can harm people, we have shelters for such situations. As Mr Heinonen said earlier, the construction of shelters does not add much to the cost of housing either. But I am sure that what is needed is to consider and see what can be done about this without jeopardising the security of our citizens. But then the basic question actually relates to this international rescue exercise, and when I know that Mr Mykkänen is well aware of Russia, for example, how do you see the importance of this international exercise in this EU sanctions climate we are living in? We have a long eastern border and summer coming with forest fires and everything else. Is this international exercise with Russia at an adequate level, and is cooperation in this regard geared to the model that should be followed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u38	Mr President! I asked for the floor, and for a long time I was afraid to listen to other speeches, that I am probably the only one who disagrees with this House, but fortunately Mr Kari here spoke just before me in relation to this issue of civil protection. Of course, I understand that, in some cases, costs may be somewhat lower when there is no need to build these shelters. There must be buildings where there is no need to build these shelters. But once in my life I have been able to spend the night in a shelter like this, and there are not many people who need to be there when one night the oxygen starts to run out and then some other substance accumulates more and this panicism and this kind of panic. In the event of such a major disaster, tens of thousands of people in the city will need shelter for an indefinite period of time, and I hope that this will be reconsidered. I'm sure there's something here that can be relaxed, but I don't think it's that easy. There is also the fact that there is a large number of export industries in Finland that export shelters and related technology from around the world, including South Korea, Japan, the Middle East and so on. What, then, would be the impact on this sector if so much were to be done to facilitate these criteria for the protection of the population?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u39	Madam President! I too will pay some attention to this civil protection building. It is very good that this is now being rationalised in such a way that smaller, less than 1500 square metres of premises, for example, can join in the use of shelters in the region. On the other hand, there is also a matter on which I would like to see it dealt with better in committee. There are many offices of between 2000 and 3000 square metres and temporary use, i.e. they are not full all the time, but the number of users varies very much, and I would like to see some flexibility in the committee. For example, there may be congregation buildings with opportunities for 100 or 500 persons. They will now face a considerable burden if they then have to build their own shelters separately. Then there are these exceptions that can be applied for. I would have asked the Minister for a little clarification: does this exception mean an exception to this 1500 square metres or to other regulations, does this derogation also apply to these buildings?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u40	Mr President! Now that there's a chance to ask, I'll ask. I took a national defence course, and we visited the shelters in Helsinki, which were intended for ordinary people, without being in any public space, even those who could get there from home — they were absolutely fantastic. I would now like to ask how small towns such as Vaasa, the Wall River, the Kem, have been thought of in this area of civil protection in general, such as Vaasa, the Wall River, the Kemi, where there are simply no shelters for people — perhaps there may be a shelter for people downstairs in some public buildings. Where do you put these people when something happens? If there has not been much of the joint festival of the congregation where the people of all the people would have been, where will those people be pushed, how will they be cared for? This is what I've really been thinking about, and now that there's a chance to ask about this, I thought I'd ask what their destiny is. Is it so that you have to buy a mask at home with glued paper or roadie tape, which will then close the window cracks, or what is the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u41	Madam President! This new provision on civil protection is, of course, a very good thing. Some 30 years ago, the population protection regulations were amended, changing the square areas after which they were only needed. As I recall, it was 600 square metres at the time, if I do not misremember, and it was a good innovation even at the time, that in very small, some terraced houses, they did not have to be built. The price tag for civil protection construction is 60-100 euros for the square and is of course also of great importance. At the moment, population shelters can be used as movable storage facilities in civil times, and so on, so that there is, however, a very clear use in housing companies that they are not unduly pawned. However, I would like to point out that, once the importance of emergency care has been raised in this debate and the need to ensure that it is trained — as I recall, Mr Jalonen raised this point — it is a big deal. At least in my own province, when Your social welfare was built, and emergency care really took on a very central role. I hope that this training will now also be ensured in this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u43	Mr President! When I read the oil spill, I tried carefully to see where the regulations on the land were to be found. It didn't hurt my eye. In the inland we have very large fuel reserves — of course their anti-oil regulations go inside large fuel reserves — and they are usually transported via VR by rail, but I couldn't find this sort of transport or VR's preparation for how the oil control on the tracks works and how it is managed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u44	Madam President! To this issue of civil protection. The dismantling of these shelters is a bit similar to the one mentioned when it comes to reducing car-place obligations. For them, too, there is a school of their own that would be happy to reduce the number of car seats in the city. I know there are certainly well-founded areas or construction complexes that do not need public shelters in accordance with the current legislation, which could be arranged in a more meaningful way, but, for example, one of the largest roads in the country passes through Lahti, one of the largest roads in Finland, and one of the largest railway connections in Finland, and thus huge quantities of chemicals, poisons and the like run through my own home town. And here, when Mr Tolppanen mentioned other types of places where there might not be a need, I do not comment on whether there is such a thing in these cities, but of course there are areas in Finland where perhaps there would not be a need for shelter facilities in the same way, as if from the point of view of risk assessment. That is why I would also like to point out the point of view that I like this kind of categorical view that these shelters could gradually be abandoned as if by dissolving, gradually reducing, giving this authority to the zoner, yes, a bit of a shotgun-fired policy. Rather, the focus should be on meeting the civil protection needs and not on the needs linked, for example, to the desire of the grynders to build these shelters directly into hard-money housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u45	And then, Minister Mykkänen, please, three minutes. - Well, there was still Adlercreutz, please. If you have any questions about this, the Minister will be able to answer them directly immediately. Please, Mr Adlercreutz, and then three minutes, Minister Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u46	Irade the Talman! Representative Kari raised a good point of view on this problem. All in all, care should be taken with regard to what are, as it were, incriminating factors in the construction project. Mr Kari raised this issue of the place of the car. At present, housing-building is required to build car parks in close proximity to the building, under the building, and it is known that they are often oversized standards, especially in the early stages. This means that unused car seats will remain, but they will have to be paid for, which will have to be redeemed. It will increase the price of the dwelling by several tens of thousands. With regard to this type of civil protection, it works in much the same way, and from that point of view this change is very welcome in the legislation. I would also like to ask: would it be worth considering this perhaps more freely, so as to remove the obligation to protect the population from housing construction altogether, so that it would be included in the planning process — a public common space that can be used for other purposes — but would no longer be regarded as an organic part of housing construction? Its costs would also not be directly borne by the housing sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u47	And then, Minister Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u48	Mr President! Thank you for the wide-ranging debate. This is where the representatives began a rather far-reaching debate, in different directions, particularly on this civil protection, and I would say that, in this government proposal, however, the church is firmly in the middle of the village and on solid foundations. So, as I said at the beginning, the starting point is still that the 4 million shelters are the basic direction we maintain in this country and then live in Vaasa or Seinäjoki or Iisalm, and the shelter must be found. Then the municipality will have a little more discretion in that: if it is possible to demonstrate in the construction of a common population shelter at a distance of 500 metres at maximum, it will have wider possibilities of deviation. But the starting point is that every building has a shelter, and the municipality can deviate from it at the time of the permit. If it were to be made the main rule, then it might become more difficult for one construction project, as it were, to get off on different terms and in the second stage. It must be part of the overall planning of the area. If it is able to take full account of it, then this possibility will then be of another kind. Of course, the current public shelters must and should be maintained. This international rescue cooperation, of which representatives Kulmala and Kari specifically asked with credit: The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for funding itself today, and will continue to do so. However, rescue services have since been in bilateral cooperation with neighbouring countries, particularly with Russia, and that side will then continue to be on the inter-regional side, insofar as there is scope for such cooperation. We hope that we will be able to continue to cooperate with Russia, and we ourselves – for example, in discussions with the Rangers last week – have a good and effective relationship in this situation too. I would encourage the search for these opportunities for cooperation in this sector to continue. As far as the future of the fire brigades is concerned, which was raised here by Mrs Essayah and a few others, it is a very fundamental issue that this law itself does not solve. We have a very bright situation in some regions, such as Kymenlaakso, in that even more than before there are enthusiasts and interested people who are involved on a contractual basis. Unfortunately, there are regions where there is clearly a situation after a generation change in which there seems to be a shortage of volunteers. We are now looking for models to create carrots here, but it is ultimately innovative in the provinces. Then again, for example. After all, in Helsinki this works very professionally again. In other words, the models are very different and will certainly continue to be different, but there is no fundamental change in this respect. Important questions were raised by Mr Jalonen and others in the field of vocational education and training. We are currently working on the reform of this rescue training in the context of the regional reform, on how far this aspect can be strengthened. Of course, it is also a matter of resources. But I'm sure we'll come back to that in the course of this year. The government of Mr Paatero's wish has already been predicted, so the idea is that these changes in civil protection will come into force from the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u51	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers. However, I did ask a question which the Minister did not have time to answer. I can ask it again: how does the Minister see whether, in the future, the Fire Protection Fund could receive a building grant for a building or equipment project for a company that is wholly owned by a municipality or province, for example, and how does the Minister view this practical leasing funding that is already available for the purchase of equipment? Then, when the Minister said about this building of shelters, surely the Minister did not mean that a shelter should be built in every building. That is precisely what is based on layered organisms when they need to be built and, in practice, they could have been exempted from them up to now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u52	Madam President! There are a lot of things you can blame us in Parliament and the Parliament, but you can't blame the car seat obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u55	Mr President! It's a really good question in itself, what came out of here. But I live in an idyllic wood town with log houses. There's no shelter in our basement. There's no shelter next door. We have a very large number of residential areas where there are old so-called front man houses. These are the problems if anything happens. What comes may come from the east of Chernobyl, it may come from the west of Forsmark, for example, from Raahe, which is to be built for us. We've got a lot of these places. This is the question: what are they doing to these people? Right now, I'm going to throw in a supplementary question. People ask what is this — 78 hours when it was now — a package. There's no answer, no one tells you what's in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u56	Madam President! It is quite clear to me that 100% protection in sparsely populated Finland is almost impossible to build. There can't be a system like that. But I think Mr Karin's concern was all right, and I have absolutely no objection. It's obvious. But, of course, the legislation is moving forward, and it has already been pointed out that, today, car seats can be defined in the formula, but before this law, population protection is not provided for in the formulas. It comes just in the construction permit phase — I know a little bit about the field — i.e. in the construction permit phase it comes in accordance with these square numbers of laws that are in force so far. This system has been the case at the moment. But I think it is a good debate, and the Minister has made an excellent opening.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u57	Did the minister still have an answer for something that was asked here? One minute, I'll let you talk about the place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u58	Mr President! In fact, briefly, on the essential issues in themselves, where Mrs Semi is particularly concerned: the fight against oil in logistics. In fact, at the moment we have the very situation that one tank in Vainikkala may have leaked. In these cases, it is the responsibility of the operator, such as VR, who rejects it himself. This is quite clearly defined on this side in itself. For the rest, I think that the debate is going in the direction of the same understanding of these requirements of salvation and civil protection. I really thank you for the good lunches already at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u59	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u60	Mr President! This is therefore the case with the implementation of the legal immigration directive, where the essential point is that researchers and students should be granted residence permits for two years in the future, instead of one year — which of course requires that the criteria for granting the permit are met, in particular a secure income in this regard — and then, at the same time, that we should have a very easy-to-use electronic re-use procedure, for example for students studying in Finland, which will be accompanied by an extract from the study register and an extract from their income through the bank, and then be renewed. In practice, Finland can also be marketed from the point of view of education exports as a fluent whole in the sense of authorisation. In particular, the examination of researchers' permits will be clarified by the fact that there will no longer be any division between researchers and postgraduate students. There's been a bit of a gray zone around here that's caused a lot of complications. The proposal also assumes that researchers will be entitled to a job-seeking permit for a year after their research project, so it is possible to grant a work-based residence permit for job-seeking, as is currently the case for foreign students who graduate in Finland. As far as equal treatment is concerned, the status of foreign researchers would be improved by comparing them with Finnish citizens in social security and health care legislation, irrespective of their legal relationship with the research organisation, that is to say, Finland is once again an attractive country for international researchers to exchange visits, exchange jobs and, in this respect, an open and international country. At the same time, it is proposed to include in the Aliens Act provisions on the residence permit granted on the basis of an au pair investment. This type of permit has not been regulated at all in the past, but has been based only on established practice, and at the same time the aim is to clarify the position of the au pair when the law specifies more precisely what is required of the au pair in the host family and what his rights are. Such permission could be granted for a year at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u61	Madam President! This proposal, which rationalises entry for those who do not apply for international protection, is very welcome. I was at a recent event where the young CEOs of growth companies were present, and when they were asked what was the biggest obstacle to their operations in Finland, they all looked at each other and smiled and said in one voice: the Finnish State. It's so hard to get skilled staff here, work permits, study permits, etcetera, etcetera. I salute this change, which is now coming, as a clear improvement, and I think it is well-founded and also very well written.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u62	Mr President! After all, we are now putting into national law, implementing this EU directive, which, as the Minister went through very clearly in his opening speech, mainly concerns students and trainees, and there is also this new regulation of the au pair, which we did not have in the past. After all, the biggest changes concern these lengths of permits: once today a year has been authorised, then in the future two years would be granted. And this would also help to facilitate residence permit practices and streamline the current system. In that sense, this is a well-founded reform which, I hope, in part can also make it easier for students, especially those who are currently studying and graduating at our universities, to be able to find employment in Finland, because we really need them. Here, too, it is perhaps good to say this kind of nuance that it is good that this changes for researchers also so that it no longer matters whether the researcher is in employment or whether he is studying with a scholarship. With this legislation this link will be removed and put on a more reasonable footing. But perhaps, on the whole, you could ask the Minister about this whole – and this is where the government’s own goal has been to find out how we could attract a skilled workforce to Finland, and this is where the government has published its own papers last year. I would have asked: are there any new projects currently taking place in relation to what Finland would on the one hand be more attractive to come and work on, but also in such a way that we would increasingly be able to make some of our licensing practices more flexible and make these processes more efficient, which we still have?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u63	Madam President! As the previous speaker said, this is indeed a question of implementing the EU directive, and in fact this directive began when I was sitting in the European Parliament itself in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, and then again, in this directive too, this question of housing-based social security in Finland was one that was then considered. As such, when we look at these conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for research and study, there is certainly no particular point in these conditions, but then I remember the debate that there were small duubies in the field of traineeships and voluntary activities, and not only in Finland but also in some other countries, that it was feared that it might be possible, after all, that it would become an attractive route to pursue certain tasks other than actual practice and voluntary activities. That is what I would have liked to ask the Minister: is there any way to ensure that these agreements, which are actually being concluded for traineeships and also for voluntary activities, actually apply to this particular activity, and perhaps they will not possibly end up in some grey labour market, so that this is, as it were, the way to get there? Of course, for these au pair, Finland is now making its own legislation. If I remember correctly, this au pair issue was originally in that directive, but it was indeed so contradictory that it was then completely excluded from it in the end, as I understand it, because there are so many of these practices across Europe. Then there is indeed how the au pair is treated as an employee and what kind of intermediate form he easily becomes in the labour market, including trafficking in human beings and trafficking in women and a wide range of risks. That, of course, it is good for Finland to regulate this by its own legislation, because it was not possible to do so at European level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u64	Madam President! This government proposal implements the European Union directive, which is quite essential for Europe as a whole. It must be remembered that from European countries Finland is probably a country with a very high proportion of the population of older people, and unfortunately it affects many other European countries, and if we want labour in particular in special sectors, then one option and an entirely worthwhile option is to get students here who will complete a degree here, after which they will then be left to take advantage of Finnish society by working in Finland and paying their taxes in Finland. It is good that Europe should harmonise these procedures. There is probably a wide range of opinions about this across Finland about how this should be done, but the cold fact today is that, for example, in the computer industry, such as programming, where computer programs are planned... Let's just say that when you take this social welfare project forward, it's going to take a lot of computer work to get these programs to sync up and get that national database to play excellently. It takes a lot of programming, computer excellence. We have many other business areas in Finland that require excellence, research, science, and many other areas of excellence we need in this country, and unfortunately our own workforce is not quite enough at the moment. For those who then study in Finland, the biggest damage is done when a high-level student does a doctoral dissertation in Finland, even if it is now said in the electricity sector, and then goes to work even now in England. There will be quite a brain drain when he is trained here and then leaves the country, and it is probably good for all of us Finns that such a specialist will stay and take advantage of Finland, work here and contribute to the building of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u65	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to introduce a separate law on the conditions of entry and residence of researchers, students, trainees and volunteers from third countries. I do not believe that the adoption of a separate law is a desirable solution and that all forms of entry legislation should be included in the Aliens Act. In addition, it would be important to continuously develop the provisions and practices on residence permits in such a way as to serve the interests of Finland. I am concerned about whether we are setting up a new channel for social entry and the shadow economy. The inclusion of trainees, au pairs and volunteers in the implementation of the Directive may lead to possible circumvention of labour law. In addition, higher education systems in third countries are diverse and partly difficult to reconcile with the Finnish system. It is possible that the issued residence permit will only be used to enter the EU territory. I think that granting a residence permit based on the right to study directly for two years is a bad thing. After the first year, it is possible to monitor the student’s success. Those who abuse a residence permit issued under this law will hardly even appear in an educational institution, let alone complete any credits. According to this current practice, it would be possible to catch up more quickly and then cancel unnecessary residence permits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u66	Mr President! This government proposal is very necessary and, as has already been said in several other speeches, we have a shortage of labour. I will give you one example a couple of years ago from Oulu: The company applied for a software employee with an open search, interviewed many but did not find the right kind of expert. Found a master who was studying at a university, but it turned out that he came from a third country and was only allowed to work in the cleaning business. And how could it be when the company applied for a work permit for this student to work in the ict sector, at that time there were still quite a few other ict experts in Oulu who were unemployed and it was found that they did not get a work permit? The company was very disappointed at that point, because he had found a master in the home town who was a student of higher education and was therefore allowed to be in Oulu and Finland, but he was not able to obtain the work permit after the evaluation. This is therefore a question of the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals on the basis of research, studies, traineeships and voluntary activities, and of certain related laws. This whole thing is big. It will then be examined in the Committee on Administration during the spring, and if you see that there is still something there that needs to be specified, then it will be in the hands of Parliament, that it will be done, but the objective of the law and also the time for it is good. So it's worth it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u67	Madam President! I would also like to say here, in relation to this government's proposal, that we should remember Finland during Nokia, for example, when Nokia, or the days of greatness in the field of telephone technology, lives as a network builder in this world still as a world of excellence, that is to say, in that area too, we need top-notch experts, especially mathematicians and computer programmers and generally top-tech experts, microelectronics, precisely the technology that we use when we grab a smartphone like this. In many cases, Finnish young people have gone to the various universities in Europe to study, the closest to Estonia, the furthest to Spain or Italy or Greece, wherever they are going, but in any case the student exchange has been lively. We have benefited from the fact that Finnish young people have been able to study in different parts of the world, so we must also have the solidarity to allow other nationalities to come to Finland to study. And I dare say that a person who, although having a high, fine degree in this new field of smart technology... This artificial intelligence is making its way all over the world at a wild pace, and many experts today, the principals of many universities, the experts, are all very much in agreement that Finns should keep up with this development. If we fall behind, it will lead to jobs slowly moving away from here. We are here in the farthest corner of the North as an island of the northernmost part of Europe, and we should not isolate ourselves. Yes, we should go and try to sell those high-tech products to the rest of the world and thereby create a new standard of living. Work has built this country before, and I firmly believe that it will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u68	Mr President! It is understandable that every time we talk about these articles of the Aliens Act and the conditions for residence permits in particular, these particular types of threats and questions arise as to whether these systems can be misused. After all, residence permit legislation is always a balance between two things: on the one hand, that we can respond to an acute need, that we can create channels for legal entry, but on the other hand, that we can also prevent these abuses. It would be good if the Minister, while I am sure he will be able to finish this speech, would also go through the means by which we can, for example, carry out these mid-term reviews and deal with the obvious abuses, because we also have legislation that, if the conditions for a residence permit do not have to be met at some point, then at that point we can withdraw and take other measures. Perhaps it would be good to go through this so that there is no picture of a huge variety of pitfalls.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u69	Mr President! In my opinion, Mr Ronkainen also raised a major concern about the abuse of social security, which may always be included in these matters. Bringing proposals here to bring more or less work-related immigration to Finland is always a fear that someone — if not everyone now — will try to abuse this system of our residence permits. However, we should first focus on getting the Finns employed and trained and preventing their exclusion, rather than providing them with study and jobs for foreigners. So I too would like to hear from the Minister about the means the government has thought about, that such a residence permit practice would not at least be misused and unjustifiablely acquired social security in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u70	And then Minister Mykkänen. Three minutes tops, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u71	Mr President! Thank you for the questions. Mr Räsänen and Mr Hoskosen also stressed the right question as to how, in practice, experts are also attracted to Finland, students, researchers and trainees. The Government’s Talent Boost programme aims at this. Perhaps other measures are essential for the licensing administration to increase the number of services provided by English authorities and then, of course, for example, enterfinland.fi, e-services for entry procedures. This work is carried out very hard with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. I agree that it is an essential element that Finland must be regarded as the safest country in the world but, at the same time, as an open, international, attractive one, it is an absolute advantage for our future. Representative Essayah raised the issue of traineeship contracts. In this respect, with this government proposal, only work experience in employment is possible, and the whole directive applies only to traineeships for those with a university degree up to two years ago, i.e. no large-scale work placement can be easily seen on this basis. As far as volunteering is concerned, only voluntary work related to EU voluntary programmes, i.e. certain programmes defined by the EU, will be implemented. No broader voluntary scheme, as it were, is possible to grant residence permits under this HE. In this regard, in itself, when there are fears of abuse, I think it is quite accurate to limit this in this national implementation, and the whole is definitely in the interest of Finland. As far as students are concerned, of course, the main rule is that the aim now is that the permit is granted once and for two years when the student is able to provide a two-year income, but if the student is unable to prove it, then it is possible to continue to grant this permit for only one year. Of course, if you commit major offences, gross crimes, residence permits can normally be revoked. Today, too, we have the urgency procedure here in Parliament. In this respect, I think that these risks are very reasonable compared to the fact that, as several representatives have said here, the key question for Finland is that we are an attractive place for talented young people to study, exchange researchers and also work experience.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u72	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u73	Mr President! This bill is, in itself, a very technical question: the designation of the competent supervisory authority in these matters of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, including in the case of Åland, is a prerequisite for the next step in the contract regulation to transfer this corresponding competence to the Åland authorities. When this underlying legislation on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing was enacted, this issue could not be organised once and for all, and that is why this technical amendment of the law needs to be brought forward to Parliament at this stage, and the reasons for this are obvious. This legislation is therefore needed in order to be able to legally control this important issue, including for the Åland Islands.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u74	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to amend the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which entered into force last summer, so that the powers of the supervisory authorities also explicitly cover gambling communities in Åland, as well as real estate agents and brokers of rental dwellings within the meaning of the Åland legislation. The control of gambling communities would be exercised by the Police Board, and the control of real estate agents and brokers in rental housing would be exercised by the Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland. The aim of the Act is to prevent criminal activities, such as money laundering, which could be carried out in Åland beyond the scope of Finnish law, and this money could then be used to support terrorism and terrorist projects, for example, or to maintain organised criminal activities. Just as the Minister said, so the old law of the year is being corrected. I can therefore say that it is not a credit to Parliament that we have to update the law less than a year ago, but, on the other hand, it is a good thing that the government, having found that there is a lack of law, is able to react quickly to the problem and correct it with a change of law. In order to avoid similar corrections in the future, we need to look more closely at the mirror here in Parliament, but also at that ministry of preparatory officials. Mr President! I support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u75	Madam President! It is very important that the gambling communities and real estate agents operating in Åland and the brokers of rental apartments are also taken into account. In particular, the betting business around the sports world is at the moment, one might say, the largest and most exploited money laundering business in the world. In Finland we have the Veikkaus Monopoly, but then gambling companies operating in Åland operate independently of it. In that sense, it is extremely important that national and national legislation should take account of all possible loopholes, as it were, where this type of activity could be carried out, and extend this legislation to all these bodies. In that sense, it must be said that it is a good thing that the law is being corrected in this way as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u76	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u77	Mr President! This is, therefore, an objective enshrined in the Government Programme to speed up the expulsion of perpetrators of serious crimes, repeaters of crime and persons dangerous to public order. After all, the main challenge on this issue has not in itself been that we cannot, today, examine residence permits on these grounds. There is no change as such, but the expulsion decisions of those who have already been granted a residence permit have not been enforced until the expulsion order has been final and therefore the court hearing has been completed. Of course, in such dangerous or particularly heavy situations, this may have been an unreasonable period of time and may have put public national security at risk, when it is not possible to implement this more quickly when one has been able to wait for a decision of the administrative court and still apply for an appeal from the Supreme Administrative Court. If a ban has come from there, years could easily have passed in individual cases. On the basis of this proposal, the starting point is that the decisions can be implemented 30 days after the decision to withdraw the residence permit, unless the administrative court has prohibited enforcement during that period, and thus the person who has been subject to the withdrawal of the residence permit has the right within 30 days to require suspension or refusal of enforcement from the administrative court. At the same time, provision is made for administrative rights to deal with this complaint as a matter of urgency, i.e., even in this respect to the present extent, this application for suspension or refusal of enforcement cannot be prolonged. The challenge, of course, must be to say at this stage that we have quite a few matters at present in the administrative courts as urgent and, in that respect, the problem is that the administrative court will not always be able to deal with matters of urgency within a very short period of time. This is an issue which I am sure will also be on the table in many of the years to come. It is also noted that the draft law does not apply to the return of a foreigner, i.e. a foreigner who does not yet have a residence permit in Finland, i.e. asylum seekers, for example, for whom, therefore, proselytizing decisions can be implemented immediately. However, as far as asylum seekers are concerned, in accordance with the EU Asylum Procedures Directive and international agreements, they have the possibility of applying for an enforcement ban, but in any event the procedure is faster than these expulsion decisions relating to the withdrawal of residence permits, which are therefore the subject of this government proposal. So the grounds for expulsion themselves are not being addressed here, but the expulsion of a foreigner on the basis of this government proposal would still mean a person who has committed a crime that can be committed for a year or more or who has committed repeated crimes. A person may also be deported if, by his or her conduct, he or she has demonstrated that he or she is a danger to the safety of others or has taken up or, on the basis of his or her previous activities or otherwise justified reasons, he or she may be suspected of taking action that endangers Finland’s national security. At the same time, a provision on the issuing authority of a European travel document relating to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on this subject will be added to the Aliens Act as a technical issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u78	Madam President! This proposal is the answer to the question raised by the citizens as to why the perpetrators cannot immediately be returned to their country of origin or their country of origin. I believe that if the public is now following this debate and listening to it, they will see here the advantage that we are going to seek, that we will identify a person's possible repeated behaviour in which he commits crimes, and that it will help to speed up his return. This is a very welcome reform. Of course, the big question here is, as the Minister also pointed out, that, although this is an urgent matter of administrative rights, is there any resources to deal with matters as a matter of urgency? I hope that there will then be a debate within the government to clearly allocate additional resources to the Ministry of Justice to these proceedings — or even to concentrate on a few administrative rights in order to provide them with expertise. It would also bring speed to this process. I do not believe that this is a huge amount of money, but cooperation between government ministers will not work if these resources are not created: even if there is a good law, implementation would fail. We have to take care of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u79	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is very much to be welcomed. Unfortunately, we have had a situation in Finland that the perpetrator of such a crime may have prolonged his or her stay here in such a way that he has then gone on appeal to seek more time for himself, and it is quite clear that this sort of thing must be removed. There can be no possibility that once a person has committed a serious crime, then he will still abuse our system. It is equally clear that, even after this legislative change, we must make sure that the rule of law is implemented, that everyone has the opportunity to get their own business done, and that we must not go out the back door in any way to undermine this right. At the same time, these details of the proposal need to be looked at at at committee level, particularly in this regard. But, as a rule, it is a very good thing that this is done. This has been precisely the part of the process that we are now best able to deal with when we go through this legislative reform and thereby speed up this process. Well, you can also say that we will probably be under pressure to increase the efficiency of the return of those who have received a negative decision from Finland, who therefore have a legitimate return decision behind them, because there can be no situation in which, under any circumstances, thousands of people will remain here who are not legally entitled to stay in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u80	Mr President! In principle, each bill is a good bill aimed at tightening up Finland's immigration policy or improving the removal of unauthorised residents. In this case, in particular, in the case of criminal expulsion, it is necessary, even for the general sense of law, for the country to be removed without delay. Now that I read in that presentation that the aim is to have a six-month processing period, it is now incomprehensible to the common sense how the law of our country can protect the right of foreigners to stay in a country that has committed serious crimes — so much to protect that they cannot be removed in six months. This is inconceivable. It is good, however, if it is an attempt to shorten these times. I wonder, however, how it may have taken the government so long to bring these stricter immigration and immigration measures, which have been agreed and decided on for years, to this Chamber. We're in the middle of something. We don't have time to wait. There will soon be thousands of illegals in the country. With what timetable will there be more of these planned tightening ups? Secondly, what is planned to prevent these exiled foreigners from returning to the country tens of times after their expulsion?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u81	Madam President! The Government Programme stated that the removal of repeat offenders and persons dangerous to public order should be speeded up. As a result, the Ministry of the Interior began to investigate the problems of removal in cases of offenders and persons dangerous to public order. This bill was prepared by the Immigration Department of the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of the project’s work. The draft law must be supported because the current law does not allow decisions on expulsion to be enforced until they have acquired the power of law. If the expulsionee has appealed the decision to the administrative court, he may wait in Finland for the decision of the administrative court. Even after that, it is possible to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. In practice, therefore, criminals who are dangerous for public order and security can reside in our country for months, even years, with social benefits. This proposal proposes clearer changes to the enforcement of expulsion decisions so that certain expulsion decisions relating to public policy and security can be implemented more quickly than is currently the case. The proposed regulation would apply to both third-country nationals and EU citizens and to those comparable to them. Mr President! As I said earlier, this bill is very much to be welcomed from the point of view of the general security of our citizens. At the same time, the possibility of a rapid return is a signal to people outside our country's borders, but also to people who are already residing there without authorisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u82	Madam President! I myself am in favour of this bill and I think it is a very good response to the idea that even the public's sense of justice has been properly tested, that a person who receives protection from Finland does not respect Finnish law and Finnish law and the principles of the rule of law, but behaves in such a way as to endanger his environment and to act in violation of the law. Then, after a normal legal process, the person can be removed, expelled, and there is still room for appeal, and this proposal makes it urgent to deal with the complaints — a perfectly logical and reasonable solution. And I do not believe that Finland, as the rule of law, is taking a step backwards here, if and while ensuring that the matter is also dealt with properly in the administrative court, without delay, and the decision will therefore become final. I will wait mainly for other speeches in this Chamber, especially now from the Finns of Peru, who had, for how long, over two years, time to put things in order, but only now this Looks like the blue future is getting things in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u83	Mr President! The need to facilitate and speed up the implementation of expulsion decisions is critical. The same message was expressed in a press release published yesterday in various media by Chief Police Officer Seppo Kolehmainen, who said that rapid processing of applications and rapid implementation of decisions is important for the country's internal security. At present, there are around 10,000 people in reception who have received a negative asylum decision, some 7,000 of whom have complained about their decision. Last year, the police returned some 2,600 people who had received a negative asylum decision to their countries of origin. However, in recent times the police have had to suspend almost half of the returns that had already been made to the negative asylum decision. Repayments shall be suspended, inter alia, as a result of re-applications. The endless right of appeal for asylum seekers must be limited. The Government's proposal is a step in the right direction but completely inadequate in terms of scale to meet the burden caused by asylum seekers in the Finnish Immigration Service, administrative courts and the police. At national level, we need to define the framework conditions for the right to asylum, and we should not expect the EU to come right into our hands with the keys to a solution. The necessary resources must be made available for the success and security of return. I expect and hope that the government will take internal security into account and align the foreign law much more sharply than what has now been proposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u84	Mr President! At this stage in the parliamentary procedure, I do not want to put my own mind to the matter, but I wonder what the real change is. However, if a person has the right to apply in the administrative court for refusal of enforcement, expulsion will in any case be prolonged. The issue of this refusal to implement must be sufficiently careful and thorough in itself to meet the conditions of the rule of law, and in practice, if people are able to use this instrument, we will have double processing of these complaints, both in the case of refusal of enforcement and then in the actual case. When administrative rights are already blocked, at least this will not reduce their burden if it is still hoped that both of these proceedings will be carried out as a matter of urgency. I might think that there is perhaps some kind of assumption behind this that when people make the system sufficiently complex, they will not know how to use it and then they will not be seeking these refusals to implement it and that this will lead to a faster route of expulsion. But I am also sceptical about this when it comes to people who have committed serious crimes, who have managed to go through the criminal procedure in addition to possible immigration bureaucracy. If anyone in this country knows how to use our system and knows how to do it, they will be found in this particular group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u85	Minister Mykkänen. Is that enough for four minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u86	Mr President! Thank you for a good conversation. Unfortunately, I will soon have to run to another meeting, but I have time to respond to those who have come up here. Firstly, you may well ask how much congestion these enforcement bans will then be in the administrative courts, but in the current situation, in which we can in practice expect an administrative court decision here and then apply for an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court, the average processing time is clearly longer than in this situation, where, when we directly reach the administrative court level to assess the enforcement ban, a faster result will be achieved. Then, of course, if and when more attention is to be paid to the matter on the resource side, it will be possible to tackle it more flexibly than if we were to talk about the line at the head of the Supreme Administrative Court when these decisions were taken. It is then, of course, primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice to consider that this situation in the appeal phase is progressing within a reasonable and appropriate time. In general terms, Mr Mäkelä rightly drew attention to, for example, this six-month assessment, which is a conservative estimate, which would be the maximum time for proceedings in practice, that, as long as we in the Finnish legal state assume, quite rightly, that all decisions relating to an individual person, including decisions to terminate a residence permit, can be appealed against, because the authority can always make a mistake when making a decision, the possibility must be taken into account — so long as it is difficult for us to get rid of the fact that it is not possible to apply for an enforcement ban in its entirety. That is also what several Members have asked, including Mr Mäkelä, why it has taken so long to implement certain amendments to the legislation under the Government Programme. I can assure you that, in this Chamber, for example, there does not seem to be much political disagreement on this issue, which is not a matter at the head of the government, but rather a very precise legal analysis of our rule of law structure as to how such a change can be made. Efforts have been made to seek a procedure which is as clear and swift as possible, but with our rule of law in this regard, too, and rightly so. As far as other measures are concerned, which was called for with regard to the endless right of appeal, re-appeals, speeding up the implementation of the re-implementation of the re-imbursements which have been given a valid negative decision, of course, this is where work is always being done, I would say, on the foreign policy front, in relation to the fact that, for us, of course, the direction of Iraq in particular is essential. About 70 % of these approximately 10,000 people who have received negative decisions, currently covered by reception services, are specifically Iraqi citizens, from Iraq. After all, small amounts will be returned, but a broader and more organised way of returning will require better cooperation with the Iraqi authorities. We are on all fronts here, however, to introduce clearer procedures in that direction as well. I personally have a very clear view of this, that we must certainly offer people who are facing a personal threat asylum, that is guaranteed by our Constitution, and also by a return ban, but when there are enforceable, legitimate negative decisions, we cannot allow a large or significant number of illegal residents to be formed here. Nor is it in the interests of these people, nor is it in the interests of Finland, to be prepared here to fulfil this obligation of international protection and to have the mental capacity to take a balanced line on this issue. With regard to those who have taken a negative decision, we must be able to do more than that, as many Members have called for. Certain legislative changes are also considered which could help to reduce mild phenomena in this respect, which are certainly a margin but are significantly visible, i.e. the abuse of the right of appeal by the use of re-applications. But this is, of course, challenging in this situation, because of course there must also be an opportunity to correct individual cases where the Finnish Immigration Service makes a mistake, as any decision taken by the Finnish authorities in Finland assumes that it can be brought before a court of appeal and that the court must also have the opportunity to review it. This is the whole thing. But in this regard, in any case, the situation is speeded up in relation to the expulsion decisions of these people who have committed serious crimes or who have been identified as a threat to national security, and it is also easier to increase resources in comparison with the current procedure through the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u87	Madam President! This government proposal, which is changing the law on foreigners, seems to me to be highly justified and appropriate at this time. We must remember all the time that these serious crimes, which we have already seen in this country, must be dealt with by the authorities through legislation. By the way, this isn't a game. We know that, today, for example, terrorism across national borders has spread throughout Europe and our authorities are constantly working with other countries in the European Union and with European countries to prepare ourselves for these situations, for example, where a person has committed dangerous crimes elsewhere or, for example, to endanger public order and security. We must have legislation so that such a person can be removed quickly, or should we wait for that situation when people are lost or there will be some irreparable damage? Yes, an independent nation must be able to protect itself against such phenomena. As long as that intelligence law, hopefully, is put in place in due course, it will significantly improve the chances of dealing with such situations, and it will be prepared in advance to quickly identify the backgrounds of those who may be coming into the country and to reveal possible contacts with terrorist organisations, for example. That is why I consider this government proposal to be a very good one and a very good one and I hope that it will be quickly dealt with and put into effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u88	Mr President! This single bill is certainly to be welcomed, although it is a lamentably small expression of joy in the immigration policy pursued by the government, such as the representative. Mäkelä brought it up a little earlier. Even swifter measures would have been needed and indeed needed already in the autumn of 2015, when this immigration crisis really blew up in our hands here in Finland, as in the whole of Europe. Mr President! Representative Mr Laukkanen has just asked the Minister about the cost of this proposal. I did not see the Minister reply, but at least in my own interpretation it has been said here that, when these court processes are speeded up, there would be an additional cost of some EUR 50000 per year, which could already be covered by the current budget. This is a very small amount, if that is indeed the case. Mr President! It must also be borne in mind that administrative rights are already quite congested by complaints about negative asylum decisions, among other things, which is of course a matter of great concern, and the process should also be substantially streamlined in this regard. But as far as this proposal is concerned, it is indeed common sense that persons guilty of crimes or endangerment of public order or security may be expelled quickly after the entry into force of this bill, or at least more quickly than is currently the case and, of course, after a fair trial. It is certainly positive from both a human and an economic point of view. Mr President! In his speech, the Minister referred to persons who have just been illegally resident — there are thousands of them here, and I don't think anyone knows the exact figure —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u89	Madam President! The mention in the government program that these foreigners who have committed crimes are more effectively expelled was very important to the True Finns. This acceleration of the expulsion process has been very important to us, yes, and this proposal has long been awaited. At that time, I have been asking questions about when this is going to happen, and it had to come at least at one point about a year ago, that is, someone there will be — I understood that it was an issue of substance, not in itself the difficulty or complexity of this matter, but the fact that it was in itself in the civil service — has slowed it down so much now. But then we'll finally get a show. I am very pleased, on the other hand, that there has been a proposal, although this proposal is not very good, it must be admitted. In many ways this is not a good thing, but it is not enough for me to make this two-minute speech in detail. There is a page of text here in the government's proposal on this matter from the bill I have taken. It is a bill in which I proposed that this criminal expulsion be given to the criminal court. It is the best of all, it is the most fair and legal way to do this at all, and it is the way in which this expulsion process should have taken place. But that was not the point, and there is every reason to think about it. I will discuss this further with the Minister and the officials. Then there are a few important points that I will obviously have to mention in the new speech when this speech is running out of time. I will come back to a few important points on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u90	Madam President! I asked for the floor at the time when Mr Kari said that what the Finns were doing during this two and a half years when the government was there when this was not brought. I would have replied to him, but he has already slipped away that this whole sentence, which is in the Government Programme, is that ‘the removal of offenders who are guilty of serious crimes, new offenders and persons who are dangerous to the public order will be speeded up’. I was in the working group that was working on the government programme and this immigration policy programme for that government programme — not the only one, of course, but one of the perpetrators there. Indeed, Minister Mykkänen is already the third Minister of the Interior at this time, for whom I myself have drawn attention, why nothing is happening, why this proposal is not already coming, and here the Minister has already replied before he left, that there was this legal reflection and respect for the rule of law and such things, which have led to the fact that it has taken so long for this matter to be included in the Government Programme already in spring 2015. I would like to see this same legal reflection and respect for the rule of law and such things considered just as carefully when considering the position of these people who have then been victimized by this person who is waiting to be expelled from the country, in the handling of the crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u91	Mr President! On the basis of the debate in the Chamber, I think it is necessary to emphasise a few points that we all have a clear picture. First of all, the exercise of the right to appeal is not an abuse of the system but a correct exercise of the system. Secondly, the paperless group is different from the group that is now being dealt with in this draft law. Thirdly, the re-applicants for the asylum process are a different group than the group that this draft law deals with. It is still good to remember that a very small number of people are being dealt with here in the first place because there are few people in Finland who are at risk of security and the majority of these people cannot be deported because they are Finnish citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u92	Mr President! I consider this proposal to be very welcome and also balanced in relation to what our existing legislation and case law have been. It is very difficult to imagine that someone would feel that the expulsion of persons guilty of gross crimes or of endangering public order and security should not take place as quickly as possible. I take it for granted that it must be done as quickly as possible, and the sooner this system will be able to implement it, the better. I shall take up a little of what was said here — Mr Kontula said so — that making complaints is not an abuse of the system but the correct use of it. Of course, there is a system of complaints for this purpose, as Mr Mykkänen said, but it is honest to admit that this system of complaints is being used very much at the moment only because there is a desire to prolong the implementation of this expulsion, which, of course, should not, in principle, be the primary purpose; it should be based on the fact that a wrong decision has been taken in the first place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u93	Mr President! It is good to continue with this good speech by Mr Satose. It is precisely as it is that we all have the right to use all the means of appeal that the law provides and good in that they are used, but we have also had, unfortunately, a lot of cases where these complaints are specifically aimed at maximising the time a person can spend here, it is honest to admit. It does not remove the fact that, of course, the rule of law includes the fact that everyone is allowed to take their case and that the authorities are making mistakes and they must be dealt with, but it is good that these legislative changes are also capable of making this system more flexible so that, at least in such cases, no one should commit these abuses. On this subject in general, it can be said that this has often been discussed in the big Chamber of Parliament. In the past, there was also a debate here on the citizens' initiative, which specifically concerned this issue, in order to improve the effectiveness of the expulsion of foreigners who have committed these crimes. It is probably the case that the debate around these returns will remain in our politics, even because the number of people who have arrived on different grounds and then received negative residence permits on different grounds has increased in Finland and this issue needs to be resolved. A good example, if we look at this now, for example — which is not the case here — with regard to these asylum seekers, is that, if we already have 10,000 people waiting for what is to be done at the moment, then something must be done about this, otherwise it will take credibility away from this entire system of residence permits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u94	Madam President! First of all, when this expulsion legislation is being introduced, this is a bit of a legal section jungle that is a little legalised, bureaucratic and sometimes untrue from reality, which is regrettable. We are talking here about the removal of people who are guilty of serious crimes or who are dangerous to the public national security of Finland from our country, so that common sense should not be forgotten. In fact, the fact that a person has been detained is absolutely essential. This proposal and this course of action, which is now in Finland, do not really implement this law, the protection of the right to justice, public security or national security, or any other kind of justice, which, of course, includes this expulsion of a criminal, it does not protect or implement the right to justice, the aim that this is intended to achieve, unless the person has been detained. It does not matter in itself how it complains and how long it will take — although it would be good, of course, to be as quick as possible — if a person is allowed to be free. It doesn't make sense now, thinking of common sense, that in many cases our system allows, in a way, that clear, now you can stay here for another three months, you can stay free for six months and deal with these things in court. If and when there is such a threat and expulsion is most likely, then the person should be in custody. So we should not forget the common sense of this matter. In that sense, this proposal is not very progressive. I also listened to those arguments made by Mr Kontula in that speech, and I think they were quite fresh, even good, in this debate in the Chamber. In fact, I myself began to think immediately when applications for non-impositions were made to the administrative court, and although I may not want to say, as Mr Kontula did, that there would be two separate decisions on the right, yet little in that direction. So, really, when you first have to resolve the application for a ban on enforcement, how do you solve it? What is the basis for the solution to the application for a ban on enforcement? Think about it: Is it different from the main sentence itself? Well, it's not different. It is based on the same evidence of the same person and on a similar legal argument. The threshold for its non-execution is much lower, so that of course it will be given much easier than the decision of the main solution itself, and to this extent the government makes sense. But what Mr Kontula raised is a good point, in my view, that there should not be such a system of two different trials on the one hand. It makes you feel a little bit like that, to be honest, one of them becomes such a sham trial, because, in terms of legal certainty and material truth, the application for a ban on enforcement should be resolved with a very watertight justification, as in Finland, but now that you are in such a situation that it will be resolved before there is still the basis for that court decision, it really is going to be quite different than in the current process. In other words, now that the Supreme Administrative Court decides on that application for a ban on enforcement, it is already behind that decision by the Administrative Court. It is a very different decision from the courts. To that extent, I myself began to wonder what this is like from the point of view of our judicial system, whether this is a very good change from its point of view. It is not the best possible change; it must be admitted. I myself am in favour of very strict expulsions. I am a strong advocate of expulsions and a supporter of a strict foreign policy, but I want this to be as fair a system as possible. That is why I am going to continue to put it this way, that these expulsions based on crime should, however, be carried out in criminal courts, because that would be the most fair. For example, it would eliminate the way in which this expulsion is being carried out today, when this is seen as a further punishment. So the person who commits the crime will then have to wait for an entirely different decision. First, the district court has come to a decision, then he has to wait for the administrative court to decide, and then it will jump to another court. And then it is quite clear that it seems like a further punishment — does it not? It is quite clear, because it is a direct continuum of the crime and it is contrary to the prohibition of extra criminality, the ne bis in idem rule, whatever the cork, the Supreme Court, has been laying down in Finland, for example, in tax matters and tax offences. In that sense, I think that this initiative by myself and the Finns who are fundamentalists to move these expulsions of crimes further towards the criminal justice process is much better and much fairer, because there is still the reflection that is being made and there is also a hearing. It may also be one of these constitutional issues, that in these situations it is not terribly well to do then exiled persons consultations today, because the administrative court refuses to hold them for consultation because there are not enough resources. Indeed, this government proposal has dealt with this bill, in which I have proposed this decision on expulsion in these matters to be transferred to the general courts, to criminal law. Here, unfortunately, it seems a little like this yet, that if the official has made a decision — or the government, whoever makes its decision, the minister, the government, the officials together — that this bill is now not being promoted, then it has nevertheless been studied and has been sought out by the time to look for those ways, why should it as if hit down or knock down. I would like to see this idea of mys, rather than being completely knocked out, then to continue the reflection. This is also a resource issue. It saves when there is only one process instead of these separate processes at different levels of justice. Well, it's a good direction. Let us hope that this legislation will now begin to evolve and that this entry in the Government Programme will also be considered and continued by future governments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u95	Mr President! I support Mr Tavio's well-founded view of the transfer of these matters to criminal law. I would also like to point out that, in relation to what has been mentioned earlier, there are not really paperless people, but only those who are illegally present in the country. Let me just say a few words about this right of appeal. There are hardly any objections to the fact that decisions can be appealed at all, perhaps even to appeal against the decision of the Court of First Instance to a higher degree, although it must always be automatic unless there is a specific reason. But it is impossible to understand why, even after that, the system allows for new applications with new complaints as an endless cycle, once the matter has already been resolved in our judicial system. I wonder whether this problem is ultimately even legal. Is this more a question of official practices that are wrong in this matter? If, for example, we are talking about applying for asylum, then the Aliens Act makes it possible for a manifestly unfounded application to be dealt with quickly, and there is nothing other than a manifestly unfounded application which is made without any substantial new evidence immediately after the application has been lodged. Now, if this interpretation were not swallowed up by the court, then we could also change the law in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u96	Madam President! The right to appeal is one of the greatest rights under the rule of law, and at least I have the feeling from this debate that we all agree that it is right for society to have the right to complain. At least as much as we agree that this right must not be misused for mere delay, but must be used for the proper handling of the matter. And when this happens, then — I do not recognise it myself, and I understand that it is not a legal term when a lawyer previously spoke of being ‘a supporter of hard expulsions’,the concept of ‘hard expulsion’,the purpose of which is — the proper expulsion of a person who has been guilty of a criminal offence in Finland and who has committed a criminal offence in that court after 30 days of obtaining this judgment,the process of expelling a person from the country of origin may be initiated,the rightful and the right of citizens is held to be necessary and even nonessential. People who, as I said before, commit a crime in a country that has provided security and protection will then risk the end of that protection and protection in this society. I think it's more than necessary. I had a feeling that — and I would like to hear more — the basic Finns had such a flimsy idea in this immigration thinking that, using the old proverb, it was “false ” — the right thing to do,but the measures would be somewhat inadequate — whereas the representative had a role in bringing this whole process to the criminal court. I do not see how that would speed this up directly. The step must be in the right direction. Maybe it's not enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u97	Mr President! Let me say to Mr Mäkelä that the paperless are not synonymous with illegal residents. For example, a person who has married a Finnish citizen has the right to wait for his residence permit in Finland and is undocumented but not illegally resident. This particular government proposal does not specifically concern either the paperless or illegal groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u98	Madam President! Of course, when I said that I was a strong advocate of expulsions, I meant that I was a supporter of a tougher expulsion policy. This government proposal must be fully accepted by its intentions and looks good. When the committees examine it, I think it is very likely that the Finns of Finland will support it. But what I blame this for is that this speed-up goal here, this speed-up statement, is good, but it is not very revolutionary for this whole system. There's a little bit of sand in it, but that's not the way it's gonna make a difference. That is why I am calling for these two things, namely, first of all, to ensure that detention takes place properly, and then to ensure that it works systematically correctly. I would therefore like that system to work in such a way that, if you commit a serious crime, those expulsions would be very sensitive. As a citizen and as a politician, I would like to make sure that this also happens, as is the case with this law, because now that it goes there, so that the police present a motion for expulsion and then Migri investigates, then the administrative court, there are so many steps that it may be that it will be quite a number of times, due to separate technical factors, that the expulsion decision will then be examined in the opposite direction. That is why I have spoken about the fact that if it were to be done in a criminal court, it could well be assessed, because the judge who issued the criminal conviction knows the details of the criminal case, whereas the police or Migri or the administrative court do not know it, they will no longer investigate the criminal case. There's a difference. It's just like this, even in terms of legal security, a significant difference. That is why I have come to the conclusion that it would be good, however, to do so in the General Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u99	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 3/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u100	Mr President! A very brief presentation of the committee's report. This is the background to the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which has taken a decision in which apprenticeship training is based on a fixed-term contract of employment between the employer and the student — the weighting of the word ‘employment contract’ — after which it was considered that if the employer signs an apprenticeship contract, then all the obligations under the Employment Contracts Act are effective. We know that in this society we have a lot of working communities with part-time working communities. The committee hoped that the government would bring in a proposal which would allow apprenticeships to be used also in working communities with part-time workers, without the need to provide everyone with additional work first. This is the background, and the government has brought a proposal that is lacking in this matter. This is therefore an amendment to the employment contract law, to the law on the municipal office holder and to the law on civil servants of the State. But the government added that not only the obligation to provide additional work, but also the obligation to take back, could an apprenticeship be established. This is a report to which there has been an objection, and at this point I would like to say with certainty that I am presenting the report of this committee, but I myself have signed that objection on the grounds that it also interferes with this obligation to take back, which, in my view, is unnecessary. So an apprenticeship is in itself a good thing and it has had a lot of positive effects, whether we look at people's life-cycle income or employment. In fact, those who have graduated from apprenticeship training find quite good employment, i.e. they have an unemployment rate of 7% after graduation, whereas it is almost three times higher after normal vocational training. This reflects its effectiveness, and it is therefore important that apprenticeships continue in this country. The reform of vocational education and training brought a lot of training to the workplace, and it sort of goes hand in hand with this as a change. The committee has been in favour of increasing training in the workplace. For example, in the area of commerce and tourism, accommodation and nutrition, there is a lot of part-time work, there is also apprenticeship training, and it is important, for example, that all workers who want additional work do not have to provide that additional work every time before apprenticeship training can be completed. Of course, in these sectors it is often the case that apprenticeships are carried out with workers who are already in employment rather than with outsiders. In its own report, the committee states that under the Employment Contracts Act there is an obligation on the employer to provide the employee with other work. This means an obligation to determine the existence of other work and to offer a possible job to the worker under clear and serious conditions. The committee notes that in its statement Parliament does not require the right of exception to be extended to the obligation of the employer to provide other work or to Article 6 of the Employment Contracts Act. the obligation to take back. However, the committee considers it important and desirable to increase vocational education and training based on working life and, in general, to increase apprenticeship training in all sectors. As regards the impact of the law on equality, it has been found that there are also a large number of women-dominated sectors in those sectors where part-time work is carried out, and around 69% of these workers are women. The expert consultation showed that this change and this relief from the provisions of the Employment Contracts Act can reduce the hours worked by women in relation to men's hours worked and increase female underemployment and wage poverty, which would to some extent widen the gender gap in the labour market. However, at a time when the committee finds these negative effects on equality to be regrettable, it is noted that this amendment of the law also improves access to education in women-dominated sectors and, in fact, in the long term the benefits may be more difficult to assess between men and women. In the expert consultation the committee has been concerned that these changes to the employer's obligation to provide services may at worst lead to the dismissal of old workers for productive and economic reasons and the replacement of them by apprentices. According to the Government’s own proposal, the company may also have an interest in keeping some of the employees part-time so that they can then be offered additional work during the peak. The committee recognised that concern and thought that the risk of abuse would be significantly reduced by the fact that apprenticeships are carried out in writing in agreement between the organiser, the student and the employer, and this apprenticeship is subject to the obligation of supervision by the organiser, and that this concern is dispelled. The committee stressed the importance it attaches to apprenticeship training and its organisation, as well as the effective and regular evaluation of quality. In fact, here are the basics of this debate and the preparation of the committee. I am sure that everyone will welcome the part, and some of the members of the committee have been concerned, and we will hear about them later. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u101	Mr President! The purpose of this bill is good, but the method of implementation is not. I shall now outline the joint protest of the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left. Promoting and increasing work-oriented vocational education and training and enabling apprenticeships on an equal footing in all sectors of activity is important. The opportunities for using apprenticeships for the employment of young people should be promoted. However, it is not necessary to reduce the security of workers in order to achieve this objective. The measures proposed in the government proposal are therefore not the right means of promoting this objective. First of all, a few words about the obligation to take back: The Government has gone beyond the point of view of Parliament's statement, which Mr Filatov mentioned in his speech. The aim of the statement was to enable apprenticeships to work in all sectors. This government proposal undermines the unwarranted readmission obligation in the case of workers made redundant for production and economic reasons. There's no need for the government's proposal to interfere with the employee's protection. There would be no need to take such drastic measures to promote the Apprenticeship Act. In the proposal, the right of apprentices to work would replace the right of former workers to return to work who are subject to readmission on economic and productive grounds. The proposal is problematic for a number of reasons. It has not been prepared as a matter of employee protection. It may also lead to the replacement of more expensive, long-term workers by young, cheaper workers, especially in those sectors where learning to work is easy. It is the responsibility of the legislation to protect the most vulnerable. Furthermore, the proposal does not assess the consequences of having taken a new employee into similar positions either before or after dismissal, even if his operating conditions have not changed in the corresponding period. If an employer were to employ an apprentice within the period of reinstatement, with the present legislation, it might be quite easy to assume that the work had not actually decreased and that the dismissal previously carried out had to be considered illegal. The inclusion of the obligation to take back is now creating a legal trap for the employer as well. It should be borne in mind that the government has already reduced the readmission obligation from 9 months to 4 months in the past. The overall impact of this amendment is not yet available and the proposal must therefore be rejected as regards the readmission obligation. The second point in the draft law is the provision of part-time additional work. The proposal aims to increase access to education and employment in a way that can undermine the position of women and thus gender equality, at least in the short term. The main single reason for part-time work is that full-time work is not available. The risk of poverty for part-time workers is particularly high, as is also stated in the government's own proposal. The proposal threatens to increase the proportion of workers who do not get along with their work. This means an increase in poverty. The proposal has a negative impact on both income, equality and staff training. Finland and the European Union aim for better employment relationships. There is a problem between the spirit of the Employment Contracts Act and the obligation of loyalty. Furthermore, the proposal does not provide any calculations or figures on the positive effects. The proposal allows for the abuse of apprenticeship training, as the reform allows the employer to leave out additional work for a part-time employee who wants it and to take the apprentice at a lower cost to do the necessary additional work. President! The reform of vocational education and training is new and its effects are not yet known. The proposed changes to the level of worker protection may therefore be regarded as premature and unjustified. The government should have carefully coordinated this bill with the variable working time, i.e. the zero-hour contract bill, at the same time. By narrowing the procedure at the workplace and adding a binding clause to the laws, it is possible to reconcile it with apprenticeship work and to take into account the provision of additional part-time work better and more fairly than in the government proposal. The objection therefore contains an alternative approach, i.e. amendments to the articles and new laws to promote apprenticeships which do not infringe the protection and equal treatment of workers. The basics of Finnish labour law should not be changed through a one-sided and poor drafting of legislation without comprehensive impact assessments. It is essential that, in accordance with the spirit of the Co-operation Act, matters could be agreed at the workplace so as to ensure that the rights of part-time workers are not violated. Mr President! As I said at the outset, the aim of this bill is good, but the method of implementation is not. That is why we will also make a statement in which we expect the government to bring a new proposal to Parliament to enable apprenticeships to be given to jobs without undermining the security of workers' employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u102	Mr President! Legislation is always about seeking a balance between the interests of insiders and access to employment for potential new entrants. In Finland, apprenticeship activities are too limited throughout. It is not a way to work as much as it could be and as it is in Germanic countries. Apprenticeship has been more of a demanding route for people whose careers are or would be reasonably successful, and for us this too little training path has now also been at risk as a result of the new interpretation of the law. This problem is balanced by the government’s proposal. The chairman of the committee, Tarja Filatov, gave a good presentation of the reasons for this bill. A brief comment only on this left-wing objection, in which this decision, too, in the workplace, is intended to be subject to the own decision of the current employed — or, as economics says, insiders — but in practice to create an opportunity for staff to make it more difficult or almost impossible for them to accept an apprentice. [Give Kontula interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u103	Mr President! I am one of the signatories to the objection and I also support its rapporteur's speech with a few additions. Like the Social Democrats, I too would have supported, under certain conditions, the possibility of concluding an apprenticeship without prejudice to the obligation to provide additional work. Apprenticeship itself has been an important way to train itself forward, especially for working-class people who have not had the opportunity to use our learning system in their youth to the extent that their talents would have given in, and thus it is also in the interest of the labour movement to support the continuation of the apprenticeship and its feasibility. Moreover, personally, I do not believe very strongly in the risks of abuse that some speakers have put forward in relation to the obligation to provide additional work in relation to the extension of the apprenticeship. Why don't I believe you? Because if the employer’s business model is to replace a more skilled, less cheap workforce with a less skilled, cheaper workforce, then he should take advantage of this new vocational training reform, which in practice provides an unlimited number of inexperienced workers free of charge for companies. Why, in such a situation, would he commit himself to an apprenticeship which nevertheless imposes obligations, in part even more than part-time contracts? On the other hand, there is a real problem with collapsing the obligation to take back this proposal. As far as I am concerned, the main problem here is far from being those abuses which are real and verified — we have numerous examples in which it has been done that older, experienced workers have been replaced by apprentices through dismissals — but it is that the idea of an apprenticeship is to have education, in other words, primarily education, for people. On the other hand, a company that is subject to a readmission obligation has just had negotiations, which inevitably, within the organisation, always cause some kind of inflammatory state, some kind of crisis, big or small, which requires a return period to normal. It is not in the interest of society to push students into environments that are already known by definition that the organisation is in crisis, but in those where the activities are so well established and stable that they also have the ability and understanding and resources to carry out the demanding steering work associated with the apprenticeship. To Mr Vartiainen, who has already left the Chamber, the demand for workers to participate in the discussion of common strategies in the workplace is precisely part of the culture of local reconciliation which has been sorely sought in this Chamber. In the case of an apprenticeship, this is particularly justified by the fact that it is the employees who form the learning environment in which this apprentice should enter. It is these employees who find the mentors who largely remain responsible for teaching this apprentice. On such a question, where it is only reasonable that employees' representatives should also be involved when considering the arrangements and practices for taking apprentices into the company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u104	Madam President! Apprenticeship training does not crowd out regular workers. The company never — sensibly at least — replaces a skilled employee with an intern.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u107	Madam President! The aim of the present proposal is also to enable vocational training through apprenticeships to be provided by an employer who has employees working part-time or who are subject to a readmission obligation. The aim is to increase the access of vocationally trained students to apprenticeships and thus to promote access to employment for vocational education and training students and access to the skills required in the labour market. According to the studies, the apprenticeship contract has a number of positive effects on the life-cycle income and employment of its participants. It is also estimated to promote access to employment for students in vocational education and training and access to the skills required in the labour market. It is therefore important that all sectors have equal opportunities to study for the profession through apprenticeships. In the opinion of the Finns Party, increasing the possibility of apprenticeships is in itself an excellent and necessary thing. This will enable us to respond better to the challenges facing both society and working life. We also welcome the fact that the present proposal can, at least in part, respond to the so-called matching problem of companies' labour needs, which are highly detrimental to the labour market, as well as of the various skilled workers. The Finns also welcome the development of increased employment opportunities for vocationally educated young people. Although there are good and worthy elements in the proposal, there are also points that we cannot accept. That is why I have objected to this motion in committee. The proposal contains problems that could lead to abuse of the apprenticeship system. In Parliament's response 86/2017, Parliament required the Government to submit a legislative proposal to Parliament without delay, which will implement amendments to the Employment Contracts Act and to the legislation on official relations which will enable apprenticeships to work on an equal footing in all sectors of activity, without prejudice to the obligation to provide additional work. However, the proposal now also sets out derogations from the readmission obligation, contrary to what was required in the Parliament's reply. The main problem with the proposal is that it is proposed that the right of apprentices to work is also replaced by the right of reinstatement of a worker who has been made redundant on a production and financial basis. This may make it possible for the company to achieve an unfair competitive advantage by dismissing its permanent workforce for productive and economic reasons and by replacing apprentices for the same tasks. The expert reports show that, according to Section 3 of Chapter 7 of the Employment Contracts Act, there is at least no economic and production ground for dismissal where the employer has taken a new employee into similar positions either before or after the dismissal. Mr President! Extending the use of the apprenticeship is an important objective. At the same time, however, the True Finns feel that care should be taken not to use apprentices to replace the company’s permanent workforce. For this reason, there should be no derogation from the readmission obligation. Now, the government proposal allows the employer to hire new people to work with apprenticeship training, even if the company had only recently laid off its employees for production and economic reasons. In practice, the government's proposal allows employers to terminate their hard-to-work older employees for production and economic reasons and replace them with minimum-paid apprenticeships. The company can also receive pay subsidies and training compensation for apprenticeships, which means that their salary costs are considerably lower than those of the company's redundant staff. There is a risk that apprentices will be used to replace the company’s permanent workforce, especially the older one. For this reason, there should be no derogation from the readmission obligation. That is why we are going to make proposals in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u108	Mr President! First of all, education always pays off — young, middle-aged, grown up, older and quite old. Everyone learns, that's the starting point. If all employers here were to do what Mr Suutari, for example, just said, we would not have to worry. Then this would work. It would then even be possible to train the aging worker whose know-how may be out of date. Or when a new machine comes and needs to be trained to use it, it is likely that the training would be found, perhaps on an apprenticeship. This is by no means the issue we are concerned about. We are concerned that in this Chamber we spoke earlier — unfortunately, specifically on the part of the Group of the European People's Party, of which the representative The shoemaker is, but he may not have said these very words — that if an older worker is afraid that he will be laid off because a new employee is coming, if he is afraid for his own job, then there is every reason to be afraid. This is where the hairs come up. First of all, there is reason to know the law so much that we do not have to lay off anyone from anything. There is exactly one way to lay off an employee, and that is a productive and economic reason. It is the only way to lay off an employee, and then it must really be production or the economy. The second possibility is the dissolution of the employment relationship, but it is not a termination. It's a break-up, and it could be terminated immediately. And it comes if you don't work, behaves really aggressively towards the employer, steals from the employer, takes information to the wrong place or something like that. These systems are working now. As such, apprenticeship training is very much to be welcomed in this country — and from there onwards, it is to be followed by training and master training. But it must not happen that if you train a racer, the master will be put out, but the master will be involved in training because he has that quiet knowledge. He knows what's happened to that company over the decades. Of course the manager knows, that is clear, but the practical information is still available to the aging worker. There is a fear that if there are apprentices after the negotiations — i.e. the employees have been told that we have productive and economic problems and now there is lay-off, and there will be apprenticeships to do this work — the ageing people will no longer be able to get back to work. I am sincerely concerned about this, not because I do not know how to do the work I have done before coming here, or because of this work, but because, unfortunately, there is also ageism in this country, also because of the need to pay a little more money than the one being trained. But it is clear that today employers need trained people. And I would really like you to be able to work with various brokerage companies and with the employment offices and at least have the courage to experiment with people who have been unemployed for a year, perhaps two years unemployed, who have some profession and skills, but no one even gives you the opportunity to do that for 18 hours. Not all of them are going to make, but there are those metalmen who are going to do it, there are those builders who are going to do it when they get the chance. When someone says that ‘you don’t have shoes on your shoes,you don’t mean that you can’t do something with your hands—to show what parts you’re going to do, because you could go a long way in the government’s and active
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u109	Mr President! Mr Suutari has already made an excellent speech here, emphasising, first of all, that there are quite few trainees in the position of a professional and, second, that this apprenticeship is not a very cheap solution for a company, because it also has this director's allowance and, in practice, it also takes time there for someone else to do the apprenticeship. However, I asked to speak because I have been able to follow this matter here for a long time, for more than ten years, and when the recession was at its deepest, this was a very big problem. In the construction sector, for example, it was practically impossible to obtain traineeships or apprenticeships or anything, because practically every company, at least one part of its company, was in the process of negotiations. We know that, for example, the construction sector is just such that one day it will rise enormously and another it will go down strongly, but instead education is such that young people and occupational changers need continuous training and its training must go much more evenly, so it is very reasonable that there is no such categorical ban that can not be used in companies where there have been negotiations. I am quite sure, for example, that I am familiar with the providers of vocational education and training, for example, that they are primarily seeking apprenticeships for companies with a strong growth outlook and where it is likely that the person who has received apprenticeships will also be given a job in that company afterwards. That is certainly the aim, but since situations are changing, such a little flexibility, which is now allowed here, is very reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u110	Madam President! This legislation now before us means that apprentices will displace both those who are laid off for production and economic reasons and then, despite their wishes, part-time employees with less hours. I very much agree with what has been said in the moderate speeches which have been made here about the fact that most companies certainly act with blame, respectfully, wanting to support their former employees. But I have a particular concern, for example, for long-term workers in the assembly work, who already have all the possible age benefits, who already have all the rheumatisms, sciaticas and other symptoms of the profession, i.e. which are a reasonably high expense to employers in relation to their income. Their efforts are reasonably easy to replace with uneducated young trainees who quickly and quickly learn new tasks. On behalf of a professional group such as this, I am concerned. In fact, my concern was raised when in committee we heard a representative of the organisers of Finnish apprenticeship training. He commented in his speech on the fact that ‘this type of apprenticeship system is, in fact, one of the most rapid ways to increase the education of Finns,we are taking out trained people from companies,we I was reasonably overwhelmed by this speech and asked it again. He repeated this message. This speech reassured me that we must find professional groups whose work can genuinely be replaced by a cheaper, younger workforce, as much as we all want to promote an apprenticeship in this Chamber. But, in fact, the reason why I asked for this speech is that I would like to see the government in this situation and, more particularly, from now on, a cross-administrative and analytical approach when changes and reforms are being made, especially in relation to unemployment, in terms of employment. The situation is that there has already been a huge reduction in unemployment security, for example, during this term of government. Security has been weakened both in terms of level and length, the readmission obligation has been cut by more than half. At the same time, recruitment trials have been introduced, vocational training reform has been implemented, the active model for the unemployed and so on, without any thought being given to how all these laws and legislation will affect each other and what will be the end result. I think that this debate is particularly necessary here when we are still debating the Working Time Act, we are about to have an active model number two, and so on. I would like the committee and the whole Parliament to take a strong analytical approach to what these changes together mean for our unemployed, for our employed, for our schoolchildren and for our future. I believe that this would be a great advantage in terms of the outcome. Because of these fears, I warmly support the protest made and presented by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u111	Mr President! The opportunities for the use of apprenticeships, especially for the employment of young people, should be promoted, but in this government proposal this means is very questionable. If you think that the company will be able to take an apprenticeship student in the future, even though the company has just laid off workers on productive and economic grounds, I think that this sends a very wrong signal to the education and labour market at the moment. Firstly, if the company has productive and economic reasons for this dismissal, how does this company have the resources to train these workers in the future? It is true what has also been said here that this is certainly not what good employers are doing, but the law and our legislators must, in particular, prevent these abuses, and this law allows for abuses. That is why we should not accept this in this respect. We all know, at least I know, too many older workers — something that Mr Järvinen has pointed out — who, for example, have worked in a factory that has been laid off and replaced by cheaper workers. In my opinion, this should not be made any easier by replacing these workers with this apprenticeship system. This government proposal makes it easier and sends the wrong signal at the moment as to which direction to go. It must be borne in mind that, as has already been pointed out in the previous speech, the government has in many ways already weakened unemployment security in particular and this obligation to take back has already been weakened by more than half. Apprenticeship must be promoted, but it must not infringe workers' rights, and that is why I support this motion by Mrs Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u112	Mr President! The key message of our objection is therefore that we cannot accept any reduction in the level of protection against the obligation to take back employment, even though it is important and worthwhile to support an apprenticeship. But it could have been promoted in better ways and, in particular, by better legislation. Furthermore, we propose changes to the articles to ensure legal certainty for part-time workers by increasing the right of workers to information and also the obligation to negotiate in the workplace. We stress that agreement can be reached at the workplace on the admission of apprentices, even though there are people working shorter hours, as long as it is ensured that those who work part-time do not want or are able to do more work. If someone voluntarily works part-time, then there is no problem. The amendments propose that the employer and the representative of the staff group be able to take a negotiating initiative. I too agree entirely with Mr Suutari that most companies are doing the right thing — but unfortunately I know that not all employers are doing this, and it is the task of the legislation to protect the most vulnerable. Finally, Mr President, there is the same criticism of this bill as of many other government proposals. The impact assessments of the draft law are unfortunately incomplete and the synergies between the different laws have not been sufficiently assessed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u113	Mr President! Master—the competition was discussed here, and it is, of course, a good way to make the future work for the workplace. Statistically, at present, the work of older workers, those over 50 and those over 60 years of age, has continued to grow, i.e. the employment rate is higher there than in any other age group. So now the work turns into that there is no simple phase, which, as it were, causes stress injuries so much that it then consumes its employee, but goes on in that work: these simple works will of course be done by machine, by robot and by everyone else, now and in the future more and more. That is why it is no longer the case that we think that the worker there is going to wear out and that it is going to be more expensive, but that he is getting more and more of that knowledge in the course of his work, and it is crazy to think that the employer would replace it with some new trainee. I would like to stress that we are now in a situation where work is increasing in a place where we do not yet know it. We have a shortage of champions, those who have done that work, everything there — know how to do it and how to do it, and when that work changes into a new position, they are the masters who will teach in the future. So far, what this government has done for labour law and the previous governments have always been necessary. I do not believe that there is yet such a bill, that I have not seen something that has not been done for some reason, and that is why I find this speech of breathlessness completely pointless here. If we do not know how to reform with the change of the earth, then we must start to museum this Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u114	Mr President! All in all, of course, when people are trained in the workplace, that is a really good thing, and it is indeed good to hear that these old masters are also needed there. Even better, if an agreement is reached that a person who is laid off for production and economic reasons will not lose his job because of the training of new workers at the workplace. It is the best thing that a job gets new people all the time, new blood that knows the new nips and nips, and when a job takes care of its former employees who have worked for 20 to 30 years, even 40 years, for the workplace, everything is okay, everyone is happy. Unfortunately, it is not just all employers who do so, and that is why we are now trying to bring into this section the fact that every employer should be involved and play its part and remember what employees must also remember that the worker is the most important resource in the workplace. If there are no employers, there are no employees, so basically we are in exactly the same boat, and then we need to row in the same direction and not one row and the other blanket. If the employee is satisfied, when the employer is satisfied, the company succeeds, it is also the way to Finland’s growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u115	Madam President! Since the legislation before us is definitely also an issue of equality, and because it has risen to a rather small part of this debate, I would like to take this opportunity to speak, because quite a few people have been consulted, including the SAK, STTK, PAM, Aqava, not to mention, of course, the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, who have shared concerns about gender equality. It is worth noting that there are more than 320,000 people working part-time and two out of three of them are women, and the new statistics show that the number of women working part-time has also increased clearly, which means that our concern that these part-time workers will be mistreated is, in itself, genuine and justified. In his own comments, the Ombudsman for Gender Equality raised his concerns specifically about gender equality and the fear that more and more workers will not get along with their work in the future and that poverty, especially among female workers, is on the increase, and that is a concern that we must take seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u116	Madam President! Congressman Suutari there spoke a couple of times that the company did not fire skilled workers. In my own life, I've had a different experience. I've seen how that happens. When a company becomes owner of a foreign investment company, it is often considered that, for productive and economic reasons, it is now necessary to renovate, cut costs, and there have been systematic removals from the older family and replacements with younger workers, who have been replaced once the obligation to take back has been removed, at a much lower price than the new ones. And quite clearly it has been said and there has been a message that all the most expensive workers will be put away. This has happened in real life. Now, if the obligation to take back is lifted, then this recruitment of new workers can take place even faster. Then Mr Satonen, who has already gone away, said that these providers of education, educational institutions and these, will look at the kind of companies they will be placed in. But even someone familiar when asking about the educational institutions, what kind of opportunities would be for an apprenticeship, was the first thing that was said there was that now, as the first thing you should do, you should get a job and then come back and discuss it again. So it was only important to them that you get that job where you go, and then they arrange that training. This person got the feeling that whatever the company is, as long as you find someone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u117	Mr President! I agree with Mr Suutari that when the world changes, legislation must also change, otherwise we would not be needed here at all. But it is not the case — although perhaps one of the diseases of our time is that it is thought so — that change in itself is always good and right and better. This is not the case; it is a good change when it somehow improves things in the overall analysis in relation to the status quo. Perhaps another special feature that could be put in place for a good change is that it somehow takes things forward. Regrettably, this government has come up with more than one proposal, and in part this proposal, which is taking us backwards rather than in the direction we should be heading. Second point: We cannot change the world, nor can good legislation be made for a virtual world that does not really exist, but we must assume that we will replace the society in which we live. Then we must also honestly acknowledge that we have a lot of companies where things are not handled as well as they look from the pictures. I myself spent three years studying the construction industry before coming into this house, and I don’t remember meeting with hundreds of builders who were in their 40 ’ s who had not had time to work in a workplace where things were kind of inconvenient. We have quite a lot of research on it, and it has just been reported that there are about 500 companies in the restaurant sector, where there are some kind of mess in relation to working conditions in general, so that, yes, when those laws are enacted and decisions are taken, this aspect must also be remembered and taken into account — despite the fact that there are many of them very well-managed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u118	Mr President! Yes, I represent the view that there are always wrongdoers. But if there are only a small proportion of the total number of wrongdoers, then it is not up to legislation to make legislation so precise that it prevents the growth and work of the largest and good, progressive jobs in the future. In some way I may be naive in this matter, but there is still 37 years of experience in trying and hiring. I have not let anyone go, but people have gone away, and they have been moving from one job to another every time they have received vocational training, and we also have apprenticeships and, for example, we have also funded higher university of applied sciences degrees, and people have gone away, and they have been accepted, of course. The company’s values — for those who want to survive the future — are to take care of that job and that workforce. The future will show that we need legislation that will make companies work better with their own staff and get along with them, plan for the future, see what terrain is ahead of them and how it needs to be overcome. That's what I believe. The fact is that we have a lot of self-employed just because labour law prevents and also has a lot of other such thresholds, that is not worth hiring a new workforce, even if perhaps the need is to grow — but it is another story. I believe that it is now important for us to have flexible employment opportunities and then flexible opportunities for change there within the workplace. The OP Group is a great example of how it wants to change completely from a banking group, from an insurance group to a group that doesn't do any of these things in 20 years' time, but the staff inside is always the same, or it's getting bigger, but let's not call it off.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u119	Mr President! I see that there is a need for this legislation. Our economy is growing, and the need for apprenticeship training has increased, especially in the last six months. In addition, the training contract has come, but also in the case of part-time labour or readmission obligations of the employer, a contract leading to an apprenticeship can be concluded with the person. However, it is such a channel if you think of the employer's point of view that you can be flexible about the need for work. And it is seen that in the future more and more people will have to be trained in two, three, four professions — it can no longer be that the profession in which they have been trained is the one where they then have a long career, as they have been in different ways 20 to 30 years ago. The committee has taken account of these issues of equality, including the obligation to provide additional work and many other shortcomings, and these statements show that they have been balanced, yet it has been seen to be important that, although there are minor shortcomings and certainly there are those employers who may abuse the legislation, perhaps they are abusing it now too, as Mr Suutari says, there are also a lot of responsible employers and the great mass is the one who does things right, responsibly and sustainably, and the starting point of the legislation must, however, be that the operators are trusted. On the other hand, we also have responsibilities from the authorities: there is a Regional State Administrative Agency and controls from that side. And many times it has been seen that inspections also work and bring out those flaws.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u120	Mr President! Working life is changing, that's a fact. I very much appreciate Mr Suutari's expertise and experience as an entrepreneur in Kainuu and around Finland. But as representative Talvitie well knows, for example: In Oulu, the standard level of work has changed from what it was in the 1990s, when Nokia's miracle was born in Oulu, for example, – today that Nokia's miracle requires something completely different. In fact, the reason why I asked to speak is that I am concerned that we are still not really talking about what might actually be the case when we consider the employment of a young person. Today, without real education, it is very difficult to get anywhere, even work experience, and even apprenticeships today are not so easy. What is the reason, as Mr Suutari said, is that in Finland such a master—the model of the race has undeniably gone in a worse direction than what it has been, that is a good question. But all in all, I would like the government to genuinely identify the need for knowledge that we have today. It's something else than it was in the '90s, what it was in the last decade. The world is changing so fast. We still use old names to talk about old things, but when you look around from Helsinki to the world, the standard is quite different. My second question concerns management, supervisory skills, of course, including the public sector, but also the private sector, and whether the government could genuinely recognise and recognise the fact that we have companies of different sizes. What a one-person company needs is something more than the needs of a 10-person or 20-person company, not to mention a bigger SME or a listed company. We are still talking about companies as if they were the same size, and unfortunately we still do not know the difference between the size of companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u121	Mr President! Mr Talvitie, no one in this Chamber has doubted the need for apprenticeships and the need for more training. The central dispute that has taken place in this Chamber today has to do with whether the apprenticeship also includes companies subject to the obligation to take back — I do not think it is the case, because they are companies that have to take care of their business first — and whether it is the start of an apprenticeship, the conclusion of an apprenticeship also to the employees’ representatives in that company — I think it is the case because these workers are largely responsible for the implementation of the apprenticeship agreement. I do not think that these are terribly big disagreements, but they are fundamental in the sense that the opposition's point of view is based on the fact that the core function of the entire employment contract law we are talking about is the protection of the worker. Although I agree that legislation in general should not be regulated from the point of view of a small group of abusers, and, for example, in unemployment insurance legislation I would like to remember this even on the right side, in this particular case we have no idea that this is definitely a very small group. That's the kind of research I've never seen. Last two days, Yle published that more than 10% of the inspections in restaurants in the capital region had paid too little wages and all other regulations and ambiguities, i.e. wages below the minimum of 10% of the restaurant companies inspected. In this situation, the protection dimension of workers is being emphasised and must be borne in mind, and I would like it to be kept in mind there too, because good legislation requires it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u122	President! I would now like to ask Mr Kontula a counter-question when you say that the company does not have rights until it gets things right, to have the same rights as other companies. Yeah, it could be fine legislation, maybe. But what if the whole sector is in bad shape and locality, the company that is in the sector is in bad shape, and in that area young people want to receive education, apprenticeships, for example? Why is it less able to receive this education than in all other areas, if you think about it as if it were fair? In my opinion, young people themselves want to be in a particular sector, to see where they want to develop in the future. I see this future in every field that the need for knowledge is the most important thing, as Mr Skinner, for example, highlighted here. We then need education, in all trainings, such skills modularity to develop in that way according to its need, at least then in conversion training — if not in basic vocational training so much, then in conversion training at least. In addition to this apprenticeship, there should of course be a change in vocational training, polytechnics, higher polytechnics, university, open university and so on. But this apprenticeship is the starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u123	Mr President! Mr Suutari, I consider it a very respectable and important point of view from the point of view of equality that people who happen to have a dream-professional sector with a lot of redundancies should also be able to train in that sector. But if it is a sector in which there are so many redundancies, it is likely to indicate that there is not a very good working situation in that sector, and one might ask whether it is necessary to train in that particular sector at that very moment. Or if we assume that all sectors must be free to train anywhere, why limit this only to an apprenticeship? Why not follow the same in all other training? In general, the obligation to take back is a very short period of time in the company's operations. If the company insists on taking that apprentice, you would expect it to wait a few months, so much so that after the negotiations and dismissals, the company will be able to even out that the working community is mature enough to mentor new students. Everyone who knows little about organisational theories knows that when people are laid off for economic and productive reasons, the company will end up in a crisis and its crisis will have to improve before it is a mature and balanced company, which is a good basis for the student. This is the logic behind it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u124	Mr President! There has been a very interesting and wide-ranging debate here, and I do not know whether this is the last speech, but I would like to say four more things at the end. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Suutari that I genuinely believe that Mr Suutari is precisely the kind of good employer that you would like all Finnish employers to be. I have noticed many times in the discussions that he is doing exactly what the employer should be doing. Then the second point is that I have been an apprentice director at a vocational school in my time, albeit a long time ago, and from this point of view, I can really say that if, for productive or economic reasons, workers have been made redundant in the organisation, then I doubt whether there will then be enough opportunities to manage that apprentice in a sufficiently high quality manner, because, as Mr Kontula said, there will be some kind of crisis there. And I have a particular concern about the guidance and teaching received by the student at the workplace. Thirdly, in my opinion, Mr Skinner made a good speech about the fact that the change is here and now. We should be there in workplaces and in every place in society to start thinking about how to make this kind of continuous training and continuous renewal of skills secure. It is everywhere in society, and this requires major structural changes, that it learning and studying become part of the whole working life and it would not be such a separate time and place that we are now studying. I'm sure there's a lot of work to be done here. Then, to Mr Talvitie, there was a good point, that this should be the case, that there should be a way to find the bad, so-called bad jobs where there are problems. But I happen to know that the resources at the moment are extremely poor, which means that I receive greetings from all over Finland, that there is not enough opportunity to carry out these job checks there and that is why they too know that they will not be able to find the jobs where there are really big problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u125	Mr President! Of course, I only speak here as an example of an entrepreneur when I know the entrepreneurship field. I have been involved both regionally and nationally in SY's trust activities so many times and I know companies all over Finland, and based on that picture, I talk about how companies operate. I believe that companies, as a rule, certainly at least 95%, are of the type to take care of the workers rather than do badly to the workers, because it will probably affect them themselves if they are wronged and try to comply with the laws. Of course, in some cases, as in all society, there are people who, in principle, think only how all the means can get the future that they want or the money that they want. If there is no future in any sector, then the entrepreneur does not see that future, but if the entrepreneur sees the future, then he too should have the opportunity to train that future factor, for example. — This representative, Mr Kontula, to the left.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u126	Mr President! That is the way you could say that we do not mean that if a company needs new people and a company needs to be trained and if a company has business negotiations at some point, then no one should be trained. Let me take an example: if a company needs new machiners or 3D modelers and if, for productive and economic reasons, a company has had to lay off another wage calculator, it does not mean that it cannot train a machiner or a modeler with apprenticeship training. But that means that the older machineman who may not be able to model 3D or 6D whatever they are would not be laid off for productive and economic reasons and would be replaced with new training, that is to say that the former trainer must be found work and can also be trained for the job if he has done so earlier. So we have to separate these things from each other. Similarly, if an accountant or salary calculator is laid off for production and economic reasons, no other person should be replaced to learn the same work. I would like this to be on the same side of the fence and to support the growth of its company in the future too, to support it in getting a trained workforce, and in such a way that the workers who are in that company are satisfied and do not have to fear that when 55 years are reached they will be kicked out, whether or not the company continues to operate, especially if it continues to do so, but can then be calm in mind and do their work as well as they can.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u127	Mr President! I would now like to point out that, in normal circumstances, the obligation to take back is four months. If the employee has been working continuously for 12 years before the dismissal, then it is six months. In other words, we are talking about a really short period of time in it after the dismissal, if you look at the future planning of a company. It is difficult for me to imagine that a well-managed, smart, future-planning company will somehow suffer significantly from the fact that it will not be able to sign that apprenticeship within four months of the readmission obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u128	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 3/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u129	Mr President! I am not presenting this initiative because I am not part of that committee. But that is why I want to make the floor that I have really been waiting for this paper in this Chamber, waiting and hoping that something will change. I regret to say that I am very disappointed — very, very disappointed. I would almost like to say that this is a typical example of bad legislation, where problems are not addressed, of the problems that could have been addressed here when we talk about recovery. The basic principle here seems to change only one thing: these companies must be registered, but they no longer need to have permission. I find this absolutely scandalous and incomprehensible, because up to now the collection we have has always been subject to authorisation, and in some way those companies have also been on the register. Most of them have been limited companies. They're not just made out of the wind. But if registration alone is enough, anyone can go and register a collection company. And I can guarantee that it will be profitable. This legislation could have raised, for example, the issue of summary issues, such as health centre bills, dental bills, municipal authorities bills, not to be run through collection companies, because when they go to recovery companies, the costs, interest and costs of collection companies constantly increase the costs for the customer who pays them. The saddest thing about this is that even if the customer were able to pay its EUR 22 health centre bill but not the EUR 16 collection company bill and the next EUR 16 plus the EUR 2 10 bills, which are the minimum that will come, then this recovery firm can take these to court, apply for a court order, which will result in higher costs when they go into liquidation for the company’s expenses, up to EUR 280 to EUR 22. And we allowed this. We're going to allow this to happen now in a way that anyone goes and registers the company. This is a very good business. Here, too, we allow the sale of debts — if one of the collection companies cannot be recovered, then the municipal bills will be sold to the next firm — more so when we have legislation in place which, for example, has ways in which customer fees are to be limited. According to Article 11 of the Act, customer charges may be reduced or not collected in full unless the customer can afford to pay them. And these apply to health center fees, municipal dentists and joint municipal authorities. This is entirely possible, but we do not do it. This letter of the law is dead. We're going to let the collection companies work. Why? Unfortunately, I have to say once again that this is that friend capitalism. Here we give private companies the opportunity to collect the last of the poor people, not even from the ashes of the hive, but from the very bottom of the hive, so that nothing remains there. It is said that this, which must be registered, contributes to the fight against the black economy. In what way must a foreign company, a supranational company, be registered in Finland to prevent the informal economy? Tell me what is the way it prevents the black economy. The same company is allowed to grant Group grants to another country either to its subsidiary or to its parent company, thereby circumventing Finnish taxes, which we do not interfere in. That legislation is before the free movement of capital in Europe. That is something we do not want to interfere with, because these transnational companies are listed companies and we also have the opportunity to buy their shares. Why change such a nice source of income? I did not find in this proposal the point of how much of the fees collected by the collection companies will eventually be passed on to the enforcement operation because the recovery company will not be able to do so. What soul do we have in that we must increase these people's fees in the meantime? Why don't the companies inherit themselves? Why don't the companies send the other bear letter? And then, if you have to, if that's a summarizing matter, that's an uncontroversial thing, it can be put directly into the enforcement. And then if it's an argument, it'll be used in court. But in the meantime we have created one way of doing business that has been done only to ensure that people who are doing a little worse are certainly getting worse and stay down. Besides that... — — — — Or I'm not going to do that because it's not part of this. And when this law speaks of recovery, it is not said in a word that recovery costs must not exceed capital — recovery costs must not exceed capital. Even I accept that if the health centre fee has been EUR 11, then if I cannot pay it, there must be some way to get EUR 11 more and pay EUR 22. But EUR 220 is too much. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u130	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Tolppa for raising a very big and acute problem in relation to the whole sector. Of course, as a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I note the unfortunate fact that this government proposal concerned a very limited issue, namely, in practice, what changes are being made to this register and to that subject of authorisation. In practice, we are talking about such a big issue that, fortunately, the government sitting under the direction of the Minister of Justice has also raised this positive credit register, that project, and hopefully we will now have it here in Parliament as soon as possible. The question is that we should have transparency from the point of view of both the creditor and the debtor. In Sweden, for example, such a system exists, and it would very much facilitate the risk of over-indebtedness that we now have. But as Mr Tolppanen said, there are huge problems in this area. There's a lot of illegal activity going on there. In fact, there are all the mild phenomena that business should not have. Of course, at the same time, we have the freedom of business in the Constitution, which we must also respect. But it is quite clear that a smart government — this and perhaps the next one to the greatest extent — will not come up with such unreasonable situations as we are now living in, whether he is a customer of a health centre or of any public or private operator. That is certainly the feedback from Mr Tolppanen and we all receive weekly, even daily. And one big thing is homehood. Why on earth do municipal operators, public operators in general, put this business in the hands of foreigners?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u131	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u132	Mr President! This bill responds to an emergency call issued in November last year by more than a thousand social workers and social welfare students on the overload of people working in child protection. The petition published on the Day of Children's Rights gave rise to a very welcome and necessary debate on the situation in Finnish child protection. Unfortunately, it's not the first time. The extremely tragic case of the small Eerika also led to a broad political debate during the previous parliamentary term on the resources and direction of child protection. Development measures were developed and resources have also been increased, but, nevertheless, the situation has clearly not improved from the point of view of those working at grass-roots level. This government, too, has taken action and has launched a comprehensive study of the burden of child protection work. It is welcome and necessary, as is the proposals for developing preventive family work and team model work in child protection. The first interim report by Aulikki Kananoja, appointed by the Government, was published a few weeks ago. The interim report estimates that some 40 % of service providers have more than the national average number of social workers. It is a great deal and tells us that the situation in Finnish municipalities is still very serious. The address of social workers published in November expresses serious concern about the loss of children and young people caused by chronic underresources of child protection work in several municipalities. 40, 60, as many as 80 children per social worker are untenable when it comes to children with seriously compromised and unsafe situations. There are a wide range of factors behind the burden on social workers. The increase in the number of customers may be due to shortcomings in the organisation of work, difficulties in obtaining qualified employees or the small size of the municipality, and the severity of customer situations, i.e. the intensity of work, also varies. The interim report by Kananoja emphasises that it is one of the most serious risks in child protection work. In other words, many workers are doing demanding work too alone. Low-threshold services are the main means of reducing the need for heavy corrective measures. That is why the proposals made in this interim report, including the introduction of a team model and the increase in low-threshold family work, are very welcome. Strengthening family work in clinics and family centres and further strengthening home service are important measures to strengthen early support and preventive services. Thus, there is no disagreement as to the importance of early support, but the report concludes that, in the current situation of changing services for children and families due to the reform of social services, the statutory customerisation of social workers is not appropriate. I think it is very bad if, as a result of this, the government is now restricting the legal maximum number of customers as a means of dealing with the burden of child protection work. In addition to investments in early support and family work, immediate and immediate action is also needed to reduce the burden. For example, the trade union Talenti, who in the study group has just left a different opinion on the dimension, has stated that the statutory customer dimension of the social worker responsible for the child's affairs is the only way to tackle the burden of social workers immediately and concretely. Reducing the burden on child welfare is extremely important and acute. It is a matter that directly affects children's rights and well-being, and the approach to solutions cannot be to put early support and legal customerisation against each other, but rather to tackle the problem in a broad sense through measures that have an immediate impact, as well as by developing models of support for families and social work. The statutory maximum number of clients in child welfare does not therefore solve all the problems associated with today's child welfare work, but this would be an absolute and clear improvement compared to the current situation. Statutory dimensioning does not conflict with the development work that is now being done, but it would create a statutory backboard to safeguard resources also in municipalities and those workers who are still and will continue to struggle with too many customers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u133	Mr President! Today there was a seminar on Children and Social Welfare in Citizen Info, and there Sauli Hyvärinen of the Federation of Child Welfare said aptly to me that child welfare is a thermometer in the welfare state. The thermometer clearly shows at the moment that there is a serious illness in our society. That is why this bill is good and worthy of support. Everyone can understand that if one social worker has 40, 60 or even 80 children in child welfare, it is quite impossible to help children and families. Children and families in child welfare need to meet and walk alongside. In order to help the child and the family, the employee must have the opportunity to address the overall situation with sufficient care. In child protection situations, there is a good opportunity to turn the situation of the child, young people and also the whole family into so-called new careers, but it requires a relationship of trust. Such a helping relationship does not arise if a child, young person or family senses that the workers do not have time for him or her. Mr President! On the other hand, the situation is also unreasonable from the workers' point of view, because nothing is as exhausting as the conflict between professional identity and reality. Many social workers feel that they are not able to do their job as well as they should and would like, and when it is a constant state of living, I am sure to wear out. And when working conditions are as they are today, I am not surprised if there is a shortage of social workers. I warmly support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u134	Madam President! The bill on the Child Welfare Act that a social worker in charge of child affairs should only have a number of children who are able to fulfil the obligations of the Child Welfare Act or other legislation on child protection is well founded. According to the bill, a person responsible for matters relating to a child could thus have no more than 30 children under his or her responsibility. Mr President! Many children and young people in Finland are well, but unfortunately not all of them. In recent years, the gap between children and families who are well and poor has even increased. There is a broad consensus among decision-makers that something should, should and must be done about inequality and exclusion, even on a fast schedule. However, in many municipalities implementation is limping. The spending limits are not stretched, resources are scarce, actions and targets are not always in order. However, under no circumstances can the state, the municipalities and us decision-makers shirk our responsibility to be able to react quickly, as required by the law, to situations that seriously endanger the well-being of children and to abuse. The child and his or her need must not be lost in the flow of running things in child protection because social workers working in extremely important jobs are overloaded. At a time when many things have already gone so wrong for the child that we are in the work of the child welfare authorities, there is no room for further damage, that is, damage, excesses and even completely irreversible mistakes at this stage in the work of the authorities. At that stage, it is essential to be able to ensure that the legal obligations of child protection and the best interests of the child are fulfilled and that the provision of child protection is also ensured. In order to protect children in situations that seriously endanger well-being, social workers in child protection need time and peace to get to know the child, to create and maintain trust, and to find out enough about the child’s affairs, relationships and everyday experiences. Busy and congestion interfere with child protection work and seriously jeopardise the quality and effectiveness of work. The risk of mistakes increases in a hurry. Many child welfare workers are also deprived of the support required for their demanding and responsible work because of too much haste and strain. Mr President! At the end of 2017, 92.3 per cent of all Finnish child welfare organisers answered the municipal survey of child welfare. The survey examined, among other things, the resources available to child welfare and the burden factors at work, as well as the views of municipal child welfare on social welfare reform. Municipalities also assess how the investigation of suspected abuse and sexual offences against children currently works. At the same time, an address of over a thousand social workers, already mentioned, was published, with serious concern that children and young people are already experiencing a direct loss of care due to chronic underresources of child protection. In the case of children with seriously compromised and unsafe situations, 40, 60 or even 80 children per social worker are untenable. According to a survey carried out by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, 43% of child welfare organisations currently consider themselves to be in a situation where they also lack or are totally inadequately equipped to replace social workers in child protection. It is clear that the lack of employees weakens child protection and the management of official duties. Mr President! It is up to municipalities to organise both preventive services for children and families and resources for child protection in such a way that situations that are completely unreasonable and illegal from the point of view of the child are not caused due to shortcomings in the work of the authorities. It is the duty of our legislators, the Parliament, to ensure that the Child Welfare Act sets limits in the best interests and reasonable terms of the child, so that the guardian of child protection has the right and the opportunity to carry out his or her duties properly and legally. Therefore, the support for this bill can be assumed to be the position of every Member of Parliament. I saw a strong hope for myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u135	Mr President! Thank you for your valuable bill. Surely every word written on it is true. I myself have now had the opportunity to see the problems of one province in child protection and, in fact, the spiral into which too many children are going and what the difficulties in practice mean. But I would like to bring this resource shortage, as we know, also from this economic point of view, when, of course, people like to talk about euros and savings in modern times. We all know what it costs to invest a child. We are even talking about an average annual cost of EUR 100,000 and, at the same time, we are talking about prevention, but I dare say that our preventive work is still not at the level it might be. It is not only about resources but also about customer guidance, how we can take control of the child, how we can see the problems of the family as early as possible in a day care centre, school or elsewhere. One of the problem areas that has come up is related to the treatment of children and young people with substance abuse. Too often there is a message from the field that it is not taken seriously enough that a young person has a substance abuse problem, and too often the message is that child welfare may not properly assess the care or need of a young person. You even hear that young people are being preserved instead of being directed to treatment. So I hope that, inspired and supported by this bill, we will also have a wider debate on the situation of child protection and that every young person will have access to care if he or she needs it, especially with regard to the problem of drugs, substance abuse or alcohol.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-04-ps-29.u136	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Skinner, for your excellent speech. You should always ask how much it costs to leave things undone. Investing in children and young people is the best investment we can ever make in the future. If children and young people are left untreated, the cost of the future will increase considerably. It is true that prevention and early intervention are the most cost-effective measures that can be taken from this point of view. I agree with Mr Skinner that this issue is far too badly dealt with in our society and in our municipalities. But, on the other hand, when we talk about children in the field of child protection, all the measures taken to help them are, however, not only human, but also sensible measures for the economy of society, and this is what this bill is all about. If children in child welfare do not receive sufficient help at the time they need it, it is a tremendous loss for society as a whole in human and economic terms.
