ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u1	The third item in the order of business is the election of the Children's Foundation delegation for the centenary of the Year of Independence. I note that the election is unanimous and that Parliament elects the following representatives as members and alternates of the delegation:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u3	Madam President! This bill therefore concerns the amendment of the church law, which is of course unanimous, as is the rule in the case of amendments to the law of the church law. Its aim is to ensure that church law follows the principles of other official and labour law, including the inclusion of the long-term unemployed in a fixed-term employment relationship, the possibility of extending the probation period and the reinstatement of the dismissed official. The principle here is that church law would indeed follow the principles of official law and labour law. Facilitating employment and promoting reemployment also meet the needs of the church, and it is important that people in different service relationships also have equal status in the church. This concerns a rather large number of citizens, i.e. the total number of church staff is close to 20,000, and about half of them are contract workers and the share of officials is 47 per cent. I would now like to draw attention to the fact that, in an expert consultation, as this report shows, the organisations representing church staff have expressed their concern that these proposed changes undermine the position of church officials, although of course the objective and starting point here is good, namely to facilitate the position of the long-term unemployed and also the prospects for employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u4	Mr President! I share Mr Räsänen's concern. There are so many low - paying workers in the church who are doing an extremely important job of their convictions, and it would be good to see that their working conditions are properly cared for. When Mrs Räsänen raised this justified concern, I would like to ask the members of the Administrative Committee how this matter was taken into account in committee work. I also call for the reports to be presented by the committee when they come to the large Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u5	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 2/2018 vp, it is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u6	Partly for the sole, part of the second reading will be presented in order of 6. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 3/2018 vp, it is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u7	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u8	Mr President, everyone, a full Chamber! It is an interesting matter, concerning the bill taken together by the whole group of Finns, and I am pleased to share the content of this bill as chairman of the group. Over the last few days, we have had a great deal of talk here about intelligence, security, terrorism, and now also about people who are illegally present in the country in recent years. Unfortunately, the first terrorist act took place in Finland last autumn in the countries of August, and in this context the government promised measures. Among other things, Minister Terho said that those who have received a negative asylum decision should be better detained. On the same day, on 21 August, Prime Minister Sipilä told us that there was no pressure to change immigration legislation, and he stopped the debate, which was unclear as to the government's line of action on what is being done to this illegal group and people in the country. We have not received an answer to that. Many people then, of course, expected, from the discussions, that there would probably be tightening up now, when Minister Terho first said this about the government's so-called 'immigration-critical wing', but the Prime Minister then said that we were not going to do anything about Terho's speeches being his words. We have also been able to read in recent days, and since last autumn, about the situation in Sweden. Helsingin Sanomat, among other things, began to discuss the existence of a shadow society on the streets of Stockholm on 1 September 2017. According to the title of the Helsingin Sanomat, undocumented young people wear designer clothes, sleep at bars and sell what they get, and this phenomenon is predicted to come to Finland as well. This interview and this case is based on the views of the Stockholm police. A few days ago, it was found that: There are about 50,000 illegal immigrants in Sweden, i.e. they do not have a residence permit and I am sure many of them have received a negative decision and also a proselytism decision. We were just talking about a church law, and that reminds me that this debate on illegal immigration has also been attended by the church in recent days and in the past. After all, the church says it's giving church security. For example, High 20.2. During the debate, Pastor Kari Kanala stated that he believes that the examination and court hearing of the Finnish Immigration Service did not properly address, for example, an application for asylum by an Iraqi man. After all, he was about to be converted, and the church provides church security on the basis of it. Of course, I find it a little strange if we recognise and recognise, in this Chamber, that we have the rule of law, independent courts, legal aid, legal aid, lawyers, that we now have, according to the announcement of some parties only, decisions which people themselves, by means of a unilateral declaration, declare that this has not gone well for them. We are also talking here about the need to listen to the citizens. As regards the use of criminal law, among other things, the government also noted that citizens' opinions should be given a very important role. In fact, last autumn TNS Gallup commissioned a survey of Finnish citizens who felt that asylum seekers with negative decisions would be detained immediately, and as many as 59 per cent, or nearly 60 per cent of the respondents, wanted those who had been convicted to be recovered. It is also noteworthy that the Greens in particular have pointed out in many of their speeches that they believe that the debate on detention is not a good thing. However, according to this study, 48 per cent of Greens’ supporters, for example, were in favour of detention, and 59 per cent of the SDP’s supporters also agreed with the supporters of basic Finns that people should be listened to. There is always talk here that, as their representatives and their mandates, we are here in the final analysis. This bill concerns the solution to this issue. The bill is a modification of Article 121 of the Aliens Act and proposes to amend the Aliens Act in such a way that the detention of a foreigner would be possible as a protective measure following the return. In other words, the conditions for detention would be changed to allow a foreigner to be detained when a foreigner has been refused without a residence permit if the conditions for removal have been met. This will also ensure that the person is removed from the country. After all, we have now also had the problem — we have discussed it here in the Chamber — of providing services to illegal residents. Municipalities are also struggling with these problems, and the government has provided additional funding for this, in line with the Government’s proposals, which the Finns of Finland voted against in the alternative budget vote. For this reason, the whole parliamentary group of Finns has signed this and suggests that Article 121 of the Aliens Act The heading ‘Convention conditions’ is amended,continuing:‘A foreignman may be detained without prejudice to the provisions of thisretention once the foreigner I would ask you, Mr President, to state in the Minutes that there has been a typographical error. This bill itself reads Article 124, but it has become wrong. That's Rule 142. In other words, it will be recorded in the Minutes so that it can proceed to the committee with the correct paragraph reference. I hope that this will indeed be handled with care and listening to the people and having a good debate. We have citizens here to hear and there are many Finns here and apparently others, so let's start a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u9	Mr President! This bill is also necessary in the sense that this week we discussed this change in intelligence law and then this military intelligence law and, in general, this security was much debated this week. Many European countries have taken new measures, such as Hungary now, if one extreme is taken: That is where all persons illegally crossing the border who, for the purpose of possibly just passing through or in some way disappearing into society, will be detained. And if they want to leave the country, they'll get out of there, but during the whole security process, they'll be in custody so they don't disappear from there. Hungary, or more so elsewhere in Europe. In time, Finland has had this detention practice when we go back a few decades. It was standard procedure. If there was a risk there, then all such things came to the ground in detention and examined their background. I am particularly concerned about those people who have received a negative asylum decision and are staying here, and even the protection police are unable to follow those people who have been identified as dangerous, the resources are not enough. Their detention would be extremely important if they:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u10	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u11	Mr President! At the moment, Finland has a Nordic immigration policy. This is a fact, and I find it very sad that Finland is stuck in this relationship at the past time. The other Nordic countries tighten up their immigration policy and reduce the attraction factors while the Finnish Government sits idle. A loose immigration policy is a major attraction. In practice, Finland’s attractiveness is reflected in the fact that as the only Nordic country, the number of applications for asylum has been higher on an annual basis than in the period prior to the 2015 refugee crisis. Last year, only 3500 asylum applications were submitted in Denmark and Norway, the size of Finland in terms of population, which is significantly lower than Finland's more than 5000 asylum seekers in 2017. In Sweden, too, the number of asylum seekers has fallen to the lowest since the early 2000s. It would therefore be perfectly justified for the government to finally put into effect and put into practice this 80-point asylum policy action programme, drawn up at the initiative of the Finns-of-origin, among other things. Mr President, I saw this as an introduction and for everyone to know where we are going on this issue in Finland at the moment. The bill to amend the Aliens Act to improve detention, which is now being discussed by the Finnish Parliament Group, would help to ease the current chaotic situation. Finland has therefore fallen into a situation where thousands of people roam our streets without the right to reside in the country. Especially after the influx of asylum seekers in 2015, the government has not taken sufficient measures to prevent people from staying illegally in Finland. These people are a huge security threat to the Finnish people and to the whole Finnish society. It might be said that this initiative of ours is aimed at dealing with the existing problem of government policy. According to our initiative, a person who has received a decision to convert should be detained for the purpose of enforcing a decision to convert, rather than allowing such people to move freely in Finland or, so to speak, disappear underground or move to another EU country to the detriment of the next host country. When people go free, it is difficult to enforce a proselytism decision and it is virtually impossible to monitor a person. It is also known that asylum seekers who have repeatedly received a negative decision are hidden from the authorities by various civil society activists, parishes and organisations, so detention is therefore the only right solution to remedy the problem. Mr President! The loss of liberty of a person who is illegally present in our country is a very small price to pay so that we can better protect our own citizens. Foreign delinquency and the continuing threat of Islamist terrorist attacks are a reality and I cannot therefore understand at all why the government has not already brought about such a change in law. Citizens have expressed their views, and a large proportion believe that all illegal residents should be detained. Why should we not at last and finally allow the public's public sense of justice to be seen here in Parliament when we legislate? Mr President! It is high time that action was taken, and with these words I support this bill presented by Mrs Mere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u12	Mr President! A bill signed by the representative of the Sea and also by all other representatives of the People's Republic of Finland to amend the Foreigners' Act would facilitate the removal of foreigners without a residence permit by allowing detention when the conditions for removal are met. This adoption of our bill would prevent many of the problems that arise when people who have received an abandoned residence permit stay illegally in Finland. In his own speech, Mr Meri addressed these problems well, for which we Finns are trying to find solutions. Mr President! Unfortunately, Finland is already well behind pan-European developments, where the legislative gaps revealed by the 2015 asylum crisis are now being filled across Europe. The legislation on immigration and asylum has been tightened up not only by the Eastern European countries that have previously been critical of immigration, to which Mr Niikko has just referred. Many governments in Central and Northern Europe have woken up to correct their laws and prevent uncontrolled immigration, and it is now France's turn to tighten up its immigration legislation considerably. The draft laws of President Macron's government are intended, inter alia, to extend the detention period for persons who have entered illegally from the current 45 days to 90 days and to shorten the period for seeking asylum. Mr President! As Mr Immonen said just now, the 80-point asylum policy action programme under the leadership of the Finns-based society would continue to provide Sipilä's Government with excellent tools for making the necessary reforms in Finland as well. Unfortunately, no concrete measures are to be expected from the government in the future, but I hope that Parliament will speed up this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u13	Thank you. We have one last speech to make. — Representative Parviainen, Olli-Son.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u14	Madam President! Mr Meri and his partners suggest that the conditions for the detention of the Aliens Act would be changed so that a foreigner could be detained when a foreigner has been refused without a residence permit when the conditions have been met. The Group of the Greens considers this proposal to be problematic. The bill proposes that, if the conditions set out are met, detention should not be carried out on the basis of individual assessments. We believe that this is contrary to both EU law and international law. Detention is a last resort and always requires consideration of other protective measures and the possibility of bringing the detention decision to the court for consideration. The conditions for detention are regulated by the EU Return Directive. This leaves little room for manoeuvre for the Member States. The Reception Directive will apply only until the application process for international protection is in progress. Detention is therefore a last resort which will only be used if other protective measures are not effective. The Return Directive requires that detention for removal must be proportionate. It is only justified in order to prepare for return or to remove a person from the country and requires that less stringent means are not used. The general conditions for detention are set out in Article 117 of the Aliens Act and in Article 121, paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of which are based on the implementation of removal. It would also be unclear how this bill would actually change the current situation. In fact, the proposal proposes that a new Article 2 be added to this section of the law, which would make detention conditional on the return of a foreigner without a residence permit. The initiative therefore proposes that detention should not be carried out on the basis of an individual assessment required by Article 121, which would therefore be contrary to EU and international law. The bill also refers in particular to the maximum margin of discretion of the State and to the testing of the compatibility of law and EU law in the infringement procedure of the Commission. Sounds like a very special national policy. On the contrary, the Greens believe that detention of children, for example, should be abolished altogether. This human rights problem has also been raised by Mr Amnesty last Thursday in his annual report in breach of international law. It would be in the best interests of the child that the child should never be taken into custody with the guardian or alone. Alternative measures should be taken in the case of children, which would also ensure family unity without subjugating the child to the effects of detention. Studies show that children in detention suffer very typically from mental health problems, but also from reduced immunity and pain. The background lies in restrictions on freedom, natural social contacts and opportunities for action, as well as facing anxiety, tension and even violence in a detention facility, even if they are not themselves targeted. In my view, such proposals do not add value to addressing the many challenges of asylum policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u15	We have two answers, Mr Huhtasaari and Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u16	Mr President! Once upon a time, there was a country that did not control its borders. That's the end of it. It should be self-evident that the state controls its borders and asks for papers at the border. This will enable us to be responsible for the security of our citizens. Fortunately, the Danish Social Democrats and also the Swedish Social Democrats have already woken up to this reality. Swedish Minister Shekarabi, the Social Democratic Minister, announced that the welfare state will not remain a welfare state if we cannot turn people from the border. The Danish Social Democrats are reforming to remove the right to seek asylum from the border. We want to have an immigration policy that is successful. The Finns of Peru are not anti-immigration, we are very pro-immigrant to an immigration policy that succeeds, as in Switzerland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u17	Mr President! I find it rather amusing that when we have had a real discussion here, the Greens' Parliament will be making proposals that do not be intimidated and interfere with root causes. It is good to address root causes, but now that there is a problem here and there is illegal immigration, it will not go away, those who are already here because we are removing root causes. I think it's quite strange, too, to make things worse in the other direction. Each of us knows that a significant proportion of these converts have been lonely men, and you always bring up this issue of children. I wonder who's going to make these things worse. And how does a debate on this subject bring no added value? You said this would bring no added value. I believe that you would like to see no discussion of this matter, which is obviously the desire of the Greens, but we will actually be talking about all the problems and good things that we can find in Finland in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u18	One more response.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u19	Madam President! I myself have been in the Committee on Administration since 2011, and there have been several members of this committee as chairman of the committee. Now, especially after this year 2015, it can be said that there is an extremely good working climate in the Committee on Administration, even an atmosphere of unanimity and broad vision, and there has been no room for such a bill at that table. When reference was made to the SDP in Denmark, I refer to the Finns of Finland: former Chairman of the Finns of Finland, then Chairman Soini later called the immigration policy of the Finns of Finland a human enemy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-23-ps-12.u20	Unfortunately, in the light of the large committee meeting, the debate and the matter will be suspended at this stage, but the debate will then proceed to the next.
