ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u2	Mr President! This is a performance we have really been waiting for. The restriction law is also a big issue for social and health care services: how do we reconcile what can be done in this country by private and public sector action in the field of social welfare and health care? In this regard, my big question is to the government, once again asked: would it not have made sense, in the light of the latest public information, to further tighten up this restriction law? This has been the pressure here in most years, since this debate has taken place in Parliament, and I would like to ask once again: would it be possible for the government to assess whether, in the light of this information which has also been publicised, there is a clear social need for this tightening up of the restriction law? In this respect, I would like to ask you once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u3	Then, Minister Saarikko, would you like to introduce this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u4	Madam President! This is a question of continuing the restriction law because of the delay in the reform of the social security system. I must say that I do not understand why the Green Left is opposed to social reform and, above all, to the freedom of choice associated with it. Now there is a situation in basic health services that, in reality, freedom of choice between a public service provider on the one hand and a private service provider on the other, is mainly for those who can afford it. In other words, a private clinic can be used by people who either have enough money for it personally or who have taken on, for example, their child, as many today do, such as health insurance. Instead, if you go to health centres in Helsinki, for example, there are mostly low-income families with children, there are unemployed people and there are low-income pensioners. Now that the social welfare reform is free of choice, it means that even these low-income people, who today have no choice between a public and private service provider for economic reasons, will be free of choice because the price of the public service provider and the private service provider involved in the scheme, i.e. the customer charge, is exactly the same. That is what freedom of choice means, and one must wonder that the Green Left, which is otherwise often declaring itself to be acting on behalf of a low-income and poor person, is not here in favour of a reform that gives low-income and poor people the same choice as those who have more money for it today. I have sometimes heard that freedom of choice is opposed on the grounds that it is too expensive — and Mr Uotila here nods. Well, this reform is probably the first time that the Green Left believes that too much public money is being spent on the benefit of poor, low-income, sick people. I have understood in all other agreements that governments, and even the present government, are being criticised for not being sufficiently invested in the benefit of people on low incomes, for example their health care, but now this freedom of choice is being opposed on the grounds that if this same freedom of choice were given to people on low incomes as it is to people on good incomes, this is said to be too expensive for society. Go and know.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u5	Let us take answers to this, namely Mr Uotila, Mr Kiuru, Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Andersson at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u6	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz, you asked why we are opposed to freedom of choice, that is to say, a market model, and you also said in your speech that it will cost more money than the current model. In the Committee on Finance, I have heard expert statements on social welfare reform, which are precisely the most obvious of the economic consequences, and an absolute majority of experts, I can say that 90% of experts who have assessed the economic significance of social welfare reform and, in particular, freedom of choice have said that instead of controlling the costs of 3 billion, there is a high risk of cumulating the additional costs of 3 billion. It is not about helping low incomes, it is about failing the funding of the entire social and health system, and hence also about the weaker and more expensive services for the low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u7	Mr President! The reform of social and health care is a question of what previous representatives have already said here: the transfer of EUR 5.3 billion from the public sector to the private sector. It is also called the promotion of freedom of choice. As freedom of choice is further explored, it has become clear in the parliamentary hearing that the emperor does not have any new clothes. With regard to the restriction law before us today, it has to be said that the Social Democrats will present in this House, in the preparation and processing of this law, a stricter 15 % limit than that proposed by the government. The government is proposing a 30% limit. It should be borne in mind that the tightening up of this restriction is now a step in the right direction but is insufficient. This 30% limit would mean, for example, that the current hospital district activities could be outsourced to quite significant areas of activity,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u8	Mr President! To Mrs Zyskowicz, the Left Alliance's proposal to speed up the treatment guarantee in relation to care without haste for one week, to abolish the health centre fee and to add doctors and nurses to health centres would be much cheaper and less risky to improve the functioning of basic health care, health equality and access to services than a risky and expensive market model. Our model would also be cheaper and would maintain the integration of treatment, which has been the aim of this whole reform. The market model is a violation of integration. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister whether this restriction law is now sufficient to prevent short-sighted outsourcing in municipalities and strange building schemes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u9	Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz now gives a misleading picture of how this government’s market model will function. First of all, we are talking about the same choices, without taking into account the fact that the range of services offered in social centres within the framework of the freedom of choice system is narrower than the range of services currently available in many social and health centres and also considerably more limited than it is possible to obtain through occupational health care, for example. Additional services will then be offered against payment to those who can afford it. Similarly, if we want to carry out a social welfare reform that genuinely benefits the most of all on low incomes, all the additional money that is being channelled into the system should be used in a way that narrows health inequalities, for example by strengthening health centres and by abolishing health centre fees. In this model presented by the Board of Directors, the main benefits are the profit-seeking companies and the well-earned ones whose ownership with this model is falling from the present one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u10	The next item is the replies to the representatives of Sarkomaa, Heinonen and Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u11	Mr President! I find it quite strange that the opposition is holding back and resisting the reform of social welfare and health care, which would be the very sustainable solution to the fact that municipalities do not make total outsourcing. It would be the solution for every Finn to receive basic services on an equal basis. It would be the solution to stop competing, for example, for services for disabled people and the elderly. That would be the solution for people to choose their own life - time services. It is also a citizens' initiative that disability organisations want freedom of choice to be introduced in Finland. I am very surprised that the Left Alliance is — and I think there is another green group there — concerned that the Finnish welfare society is being saved, that such a system of social welfare and health care is being sought, in which all services, including middle-income Finns, are secured equally with tax money. This is not a market model. Your model is a market model. In this model, the public authorities are responsible for:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u12	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz well described the situation at the moment. In the medical line we have pensioners, unemployed, many families with children. Freedom of choice must no longer be the privilege of the rich, as it is at the moment, but must be made a fundamental right of every Finnish citizen, which has long been promoted by the coalition. It makes sense now to keep the situation as it is. However, the situation in the provinces is waiting. Decisions must be taken by Parliament, because unfortunately not all joint municipal boards are working at the moment. Services will be centralised, and municipalities will also want to make different choices in the future if this war does not progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u13	Madam President! So the most important thing about this social welfare reform is that you have access to a doctor. You get to a doctor when you need to, without having to wait in line,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u16	Mr President! Once again, in this debate, we must remember that our health care is very hospital-intensive. It's gonna cost you a lot of money. One of the key priorities of the Sote reform is to transfer more resources to basic services, which currently account for around 10% of the total cost. More money can be put into them. It then saves on special services and can be saved, not to mention the fact that the main objectives of the social welfare reform will then be to have access to a doctor and a doctor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u17	And then we go on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u18	Madam President! When we discussed freedom of choice in the Administrative Committee, we had dozens of experts, and I think I was almost involved in consulting everyone. I remember one expert praised this freedom of choice, and this expert was Professor Mats Brommels, the same person who has made this proposal to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u21	Mr President! Once again, this system will still not offer the same opportunities for low incomes as for high incomes. Take as an example a social welfare centre run by a private company in a district where a lot of relatively well-paid people live. In the future, these well-paid people can go to the taxpayer to use the services of their private service provider, and when the low-income one goes there, after receiving the doctor of its open health care, when other studies or other services should be provided, they are offered for payment or then directed to the county business institution. The person with good income is able to pay or obtain insurance for those additional services, the person with low incomes is not. If the objective is to speed up access to care for low-income people, change the treatment guarantee so that additional resources are directed to public health centres and abolish the health centre fees for public services. These would be reforms that would genuinely help low-income people to get treatment more quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u22	And two more replies, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and Mr Sarkomaa, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u23	Mr Zyskowicz, in your home town of Helsinki there is hardly anyone in the city council of more than 80 members who would support this government's social act. This is because this proposal really does not improve the services of social services, but takes them back decades in Helsinki, for example. For example, your social welfare proposal does not impose an obligation on local health centres to organise mental health services, which weakens the current situation in Helsinki. In your proposal for social services, local health stations cannot have social workers who make decisions on people who need social services. Cooperation between social services and health services is therefore deteriorating. It will be impossible in many places, it will be expensive, and this model will also be very expensive for taxpayers because the provinces will have to ensure the services that private companies that are leaving the market may then no longer provide to citizens. This is a double structure that costs so much, I'm surprised if it's a gathering.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u24	Just now I promised Mr Sarkomaa, but there was a couple more, Lindtman and Zyskowicz. Then there is the Minister's speech, then there is the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u25	Mr President! You might want to read some international research. Freedom of choice is a pan-European direction, Finland is a backward country. Other European countries have strengthened the ability of people to influence their own care. [Foresday: In your model! ] This model brings a pan-European model, self-determination, but better access to the market. Now the public authorities, one body, are running social and health services. If tax money goes to private service providers, private service providers commit themselves to the service chains set by the province. We will be able to lead with knowledge a lot of reforms that we do not currently have. This package makes it possible, and these also apply for the most effective treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u26	Then there are the representatives of Lindtman and Zyskowicz, and then, because of the Minister's timetables, the Minister will take the floor at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u27	Mr President! The argument that this market model has been marketed and that, again in this debate, Mr Zyskowicz's speech, this government's proposal will allow low-income people to use health services in the same way that high-income people now use private services,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u30	Next, Mr Zyskowicz and then Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u31	Madam President! As far as the City Council of Helsinki is concerned, there are certainly a very large number of red-greens who are opposed to this freedom of choice. [of the Socialist Group : Free Mountain!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u34	Then Minister Saarikko. I think five minutes is enough when you show me around.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u35	Mr President! This bill, which is now the subject of this parliamentary debate, refers to three issues that the government's legislation will continue to address. The debate here has been a great deal about freedom of choice, but please allow me now to highlight the points that this proposal deals with. The first relates to the existing co-operation areas, i.e. the structural change that has taken place within the framework of the so-called Best Act, which has led to the current presence in Finland of 142 municipalities or associations of municipalities responsible for the organisation of social services and basic health care, as well as the well-known 20 hospital districts responsible for special medical care. It makes no sense for these joint municipal authorities under the Paras-Framework Act to split up in the next few years before the social welfare reform comes into force, and that is one of the cornerstones of this legislation. In other words, the cooperation structures that have now been achieved do not make sense to split up and achieve new confusion and new structures, when our common national objective is to find a solution through legislation that concerns the services of all citizens and thus changes the organisation of all these more than 140 bodies in relation to services. It is the cornerstone number one of the law, the obligation of the extension of the so-called Best Framework Act. The second cornerstone of the law relates to outsourcing, which will inevitably give rise to a debate on whether it is better to allow companies to be involved, as if through a free and wild field, as an independent solution for municipalities, to outsource the whole service or so that the public's own voice is better heard in the services and we offer a choice between private and public.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u38	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u39	Madam President! I hope that the so-called restriction law now before us will be dealt with as soon as possible. On the other hand, the best thing in this situation would be that the laws on social and health care reform before Parliament — the law on organisation, the law on freedom of choice and several dozen other laws under the title of the law — should be dealt with as soon as possible. As soon as possible. Those speakers who are talking here about market models, those who are calling for market restrictions in virtually every speech, every single long-term meeting, every comment that causes confusion in the field of genuinely and understandably thinking about the future of services, you are, in practice, instigating a market tear that, whoever is in power, can be absolutely impossible. What has happened in the field in the last two years? What happened? There are the more imaginative agreements that have been reached in a situation where the basic idea is beautiful, commendable and understandable, but when you think about the outcome, it is, indeed, about buying the market rather than safeguarding services financed by the public tax system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u43	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for having obtained the restriction law now before Parliament. On my own behalf and on behalf of the committee, I say that this has been expected. In this respect, it is important that the restriction law is continued in Finland. This is particularly serious because the ongoing reform of social and health care is still under way and there is a need for a clear impulse to ensure that Parliament is serious about the way in which today's organisers, or municipalities, can make big moves in the organisation of social welfare and health care. In this respect, it is important to extend the limitation laws, and in that respect it is certainly also a great support from Parliament with this proposal that this period should be extended until the end of 22 years. As far as the details of this law are concerned, I think that the Minister very well described them. There is serious concern in the various parties in this Parliament that the problems of the existing areas of cooperation should not be treated as a matter of urgency by encouraging radical and radical outsourcing of these services in Parliament, but rather that the necessary resources for these areas of cooperation should actually be explored, but also that the possibility of tackling these outsourcing on the part of society must be taken seriously. It is also worth noting that it has been understood on the ground, however, that these large investments in social services must be seen with a slightly wider eye. Well, as far as the content of this proposal is concerned, I now say that there is certainly no consensus in this House about what kind of action this restriction law is being taken forward here in substance. In fact, this law will also determine what restrictions are being imposed on these agreements with private service providers, and it has now been seen from earlier times that there is disagreement as to the type of agreement that should be included here. On behalf of my own political movement, I would like to say that the SDP will, in practice, be put on books and covers, present a clear 15% limit on outsourcing beyond the estimated annual value of the services in charge of organisation to contracts with a private service provider. In this regard, the government itself has very well come on a long run to make this restriction even more stringent. The Minister here well described these margins with regard to the issue of social welfare reform in committee and also that this would require a round of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the assessment of the perspective of the self-governing municipality and the organisation of its services. But it is also good to say that, in fact, the government would have had the opportunity to make progress on this issue earlier in the evaluation of the Constitutional Committee, even if the committee had not been able to reach it until Christmas. For its part, however, it is important for Parliament to have a common will that uncontrollable outsourcing cannot continue. Mr President! On the political side, it has been interesting in this debate that when we talk about the law of limitation, we want to make it clear that the market needs to be curbed — it seems to be an integrated perspective for all — but the result will be quite different. The fact is that, as far as the market is concerned, all parties in this Chamber are of the opinion that this uncontrolled outsourcing must be stopped. West Ostrobothnia is probably one harsh example of what can really be outsourcing if it can be done with a free hand. In that respect, I personally believe that the market is a good servant but a bad host. With regard to this debate and this restriction law, which of us now believes that the market is a good host? That is why there is a strong government's will for externalisation to be curbed — precisely because the market is a bad host. But in the social welfare reform, for some reason, we bring this sleeping bear back to life, and we believe that the market is a good host, because in this model it is precisely public organisation and the provision of services for all others that is deeply separated from each other, and this market model, where organisation and production are separated from each other, will create a situation that will then become a rather large, torn group of people in the house to produce. So the market is going to be a tough host to this. In that respect, it can be said that this reform does not take services in all respects for the better, and that is a great pity, because this government's choice that this particular reform of social security costs a substantial sum of EUR 5.3 billion. This is the big deal that when we talk about a restriction law, there is a will that the market is being constrained, but at the same time there cannot be a market being constrained by a social reform which is specifically intended to increase the market. On the social side, for example, we are actually taking all non-official tasks to the market. This is a big question for you, what is meant by the fact that the market is a good man, but a bad man. There does not seem to be any real political will to ensure that this remains in the real public hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u44	Mr President! This restriction law at hand is necessary, although it could perhaps be stricter. Uncontrollable outsourcing of municipalities and various building blocks must be managed. It must be remembered, however, that what happens on the municipal court is not a natural law. They are political decisions taken by municipalities in relation to these short-sighted arrangements, and it is contradictory that the government parties here say that we need a costly, risky, unequal and non-integrative market model in order to prevent short-term outsourcing by municipalities and other groups. They are, however, mainly these same government parties, the centre and the coalition which the municipalities decide on these overall outsourcings and other Cops, and whose even political programmes and municipal objectives have long been involved in achieving these outsourcings. It therefore seems that the centre and the assembly here in Parliament want to save Finland from itself — from the centre and the assembly — and from the decisions taken in the municipalities where these short-sighted outsourcings and other gangs are carried out by political and political majority groups. So it is remembered that these outsourcings in municipalities are not the law of nature. We do need a social welfare reform, but it can and must be done in such a way that integration is safeguarded, equality is safeguarded, services are transferred to the provinces, public service production is considered as a host and private service production is a burden. The alternative to the market model is not the failure to reform the social economy, but a better and more sustainable reform of the social economy. But, Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for also raising in his presentation what is in this bill the question of the national coordination of these hospital investments. It seems to me that this national coordination is working quite well and that it will also really bring the regions closer to perhaps better and more advanced investment plans. Even though we have this restriction law on, investment permits are shown to be issued when the plans are really justified and correct. In this context, I would like to thank the Minister for the approval of the Oulu Hospital for the Future. It seems that the project is becoming better than perhaps previously planned or expected, and I believe that this national co-ordination drive has also helped to improve this project. I thank you for moving on, because we really need a modern hospital. It can also increase productivity, as old structures may find it difficult to develop new methods of treatment, to develop productivity, to develop the quality of care if these old-fashioned walls prevent modern activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u45	We have a time limit, so this should end in about five minutes. There are four requests to speak and I now offer you four answers if you wish to use it in this context. Otherwise, they'll move on to that late night. Which of you four would like to speak in this context? This is Andersson, Kankaanniemi, Salmon and Henriksson. — Everyone wants answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u46	Mr President! This has been discussed and discussed about a number of building blocks, and it is quite true that it is a good thing that this restriction law is now trying to prevent these uncontrolled outsourcings. A rather interesting knock, which is currently under way, relates to Minister Saarikko’s hometown of Turku, where the city is planning a very exceptional real estate trade. The city is selling its social property company, which therefore includes the ownership of Turku City Hospital, several health centres and nursing homes, to a Swedish real estate investment company. This proposed law does not prevent such gangs, but it would be interesting to hear Minister Saariko's view that real estate transactions of this kind are taking place in a situation where it is not yet known what will happen to this social reform and where it is obvious that there will be a need for these social and social property in the city centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u47	Madam President! This restriction law is necessary, it is quite clear. Even if the social welfare reform here falls, many provinces are prepared to build a social and health care reform on a new basis, and in view of that too, restrictions are needed now to prevent the wildness from continuing. As far as this social and regional reform is concerned: When the perpetrators were sought, I must say that the government programme under the leadership of Mr Rehula was excellent in this regard, but that mistake occurred when it was abandoned and started to build both provinces and freedom of choice at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u50	Mr President! Here earlier, Mr Kari, who apparently has left, asked what the centre's position on this freedom of choice is. I think that Mr Saarikko and Mr Ruhula have already responded very well to this, but I can also say that surely this reform or some part of it is not complete, but it is essential that it is good enough that it should now move forward so that we can make this reform and, through it, prevent us from spreading this kind of wild west, where uncontrollably outgoing outsourcing to move forward. And at the end of it, the public organiser or producer is no longer able to keep this whole thing under control, and such a situation must not arise for us. That is why this proposal, which we now have before us, is not only good but necessary. However, I would like to highlight this freedom of choice from the point of view which may not have been sufficiently pointed out here that, if we have a choice, it is only a pure fact that it will then also tighten up all the producers, including the public service provider.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u51	One last reply, Mr Henriksson, then Minister. At the same time, I would like to ask whether you will leave the requests for the floor until the late evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u52	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! It has been sad to see, during this reign, how smaller hospitals have been driven down all over Finland as soon as the whole social welfare reform is still on the loose. Now the situation is that we have an accelerated ambulance rally all over Finland. When the Minister pointed out just now in his speech that we should invest in the fact that we have functions and we have good buildings, I would like to ask how you see that in those places where we have also invested in functional operating rooms where municipal tax money has been placed in functional operating rooms, the operating rooms are no longer allowed to be used. In the opinion of the RKP and in my opinion, this is not a good and smart way to treat health care and healthcare in Finland. So, at the same time, it is reported that a proposal on day surgery is still coming to Parliament. Is it, then, that private individuals will be allowed to perform day surgery in the future, but
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u53	And then, Minister Saarikko, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u54	Mr President! I assume that this House will end up discussing the details of the social reform - its problems and benefits and disadvantages - many more times, so I will now focus on the issues on which this proposal is particularly concerned. First of all, Mr Sarkkinen, as the decision-maker in Oulu, you assessed the most recent decision of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on real estate investment presented by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. That is exactly what I am thinking about investment. They can increase productivity, help to make the right kind of content decisions, but first of all we will implement those that are now most necessary. At the same time, it is an endless consideration of whether it will be more expensive to move a project, especially if we know that we have an unauthorized number of buildings that are harmful to staff, i.e. humidity and mould-damaged facilities, which I know are also the basis for many investment decisions that have been identified. So, surprisingly little to me, we have had a public debate on how significant common funds are currently being invested in new hospital buildings, and I am pleased to note that most of them also come from a completely new kind of thinking and content of medical care and health care. For example, consider what kind of world was built for psychiatric treatments a few decades ago, where hospitals were placed. They were based on the fact that people are inside four walls for years. Today we think very differently about mental health and related issues. Of course, this will also require completely new solutions for farms. Then there was the assessment that the debate on the government's market model is being repeated over and over again. At the same time, I would like to note that the majority of Finnish municipalities have now decided on solutions with private services, but without the user's own voice being heard in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u57	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u58	Madam President! This proposal proposes to introduce a new fund law to repeal the existing law of the same name. Key reforms would include the transfer of the regulation of special investment funds to the AIF Act on Alternative Fund Managers and the authorisation of the sub-fund structure of investment funds under the IF Directive. The proposal also proposes to amend the Act on Alternative Fund Managers, the Act on Financial Supervision and the Act on Gift Promises. Interesting entities all of these when you really get to know them. The draft opinion was also considered largely successful by the authors of the opinion. There were also clarifications and corrections to the proposal as a result of the opinions, and the proposal as a whole seems very good. The proposal has some minor implications for the fight against crime in the financial markets. The reliability of the operations of the Board of Directors of a financial company would be enhanced by new provisions concerning the independent member of the Board of Directors of the management company, replacing the board member required by the existing law. The Financial Supervisory Authority would also have the right to review the criminal record of the key persons of the registered alternative fund manager. These are very good points in this proposal and they must be supported. Madam President! This bill, as I said earlier, repeals the existing law of the same name and is therefore very necessary and also timely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u59	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 22/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u60	Mr President! The Government's proposal at first reading contains three elements of energy taxation: firstly, an increase in excise duty on heating and machinery fuels; secondly, a proposal which eliminates the possibility of double taxation when electricity is transferred from the grid to electricity storage and then back to the grid for release to consumption; and thirdly, an increase in excise duty on light fuel oil used in agriculture for 2018 linked to major crop damage in 2018. Mr President! The basis for calculating the CO2 tax for heating and working machinery fuels will be specified in such a way that the CO2 emissions from fossil fuels take into account greenhouse gas emissions during the life cycle of fuels and not only emissions from their combustion. However, this change does not increase the amount of CO2 tax on fuel as the value of the tonne of CO2 as the basis for calculating the tax is reduced. However, in order to increase tax revenue, the tax on heating and machinery fuels will be increased with emphasis on the CO2 tax. The taxation of combined heat and power production will be abolished by halving the CO2 tax. This will increase the tax burden on coal in combined production and reduce the tax burden on natural gas. Overall, government energy tax revenues will increase by a total of EUR 38 million per year. Mr President! The proposals on storage of electricity have been accepted unreservedly by the committee in an expert consultation. The change will be carried out in such a way that the transmission of electricity from the electricity grid to the electricity storage facility and, correspondingly, from the electricity storage back to the electricity grid will be subject to excise duty-free. At this stage, the change does not apply to micro or small-scale power plants. In practice, this is necessary as long as it is not possible to distinguish between self-input electricity and electricity consumed online. This will be possible in due course when second generation smart meters are made available. Mr President! The third item of the proposal concerns an increase in the refund of excise duty on light fuel oil used in agriculture in 2018. The background is the exceptional drought of the summer and the losses it causes. The additional refund is 7.5 cents per litre and the total amount of EUR 20 million. Unfortunately, despite joint efforts, no way could be found in the expert consultation to bring forward the payment of the refund. Since the EU Commission has accepted an increase in the excise refund, the need to bring it into force separately by Government decree will be removed. The report includes a change in this regard. The committee refers to its statement at the end of its report about a year ago, which drew attention to the fact that the system for the refund of energy taxes on agriculture does not apply at all to LPG, which is increasing in use in agriculture. No progress has been made in this matter, despite Parliament's statement. The committee therefore renews its demands and requires that the matter be taken forward without delay. A neutral approach to the various energy products used in agriculture also requires the re-export of LPG. The report contains objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u61	Honorable Speaker! I am submitting a basic proposal in accordance with protest 3, which is based in practice on a programme of housing and car billing in accordance with our alternative budget, and it must also be borne in mind that, as far as industry is concerned, we need to support our own domestic industry and not increase costs there. This third legislative proposal would therefore be adopted in accordance with the report and the first and second legislative proposal amended in accordance with objection 3, which would take into account legislative initiatives 65 and 66 and the amendments to the tables. Finally, I would like to say that this agricultural situation is difficult, because weather conditions vary considerably, and there is a need to find a new crop damage insurance model which would allow for such costs, which are the result of these exceptional weather conditions, to provide insurance-type support for agriculture in a more flexible way than would be the case here every year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u62	Madam President! First of all, I support Mr Vähämäki's motion for a resolution. I note that housing and transport, which we tend to use strongly as a central government fund-raising target, are basic needs that should be based on criteria and starting points for other forms of funding. It is understandable that efforts are being made to reduce income tax levels in order to promote work, but housing and transport are also issues that concern us all and are always problematic, as is happening now. These crop damage or roof damage in agriculture, we are talking about either: I also agree in particular with what Mr Vähämäki said, which means that the government should look for such a permanent solution. A few years ago, when the budget was abolished to compensate for crop damage, we have now seen two years immediately after this was stopped, first a wet, rainy year and then a very dry year after that, and farmers are in distress. It is still to be expected that the EU will cut agricultural subsidies severely in the next few years. We are in danger of all food production, of basic production, and also of the jobs that belong to that food chain. So this is a very important issue of basic security, and one such fund model presented by the Finns could be one solution that could permanently deal with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u63	When the question arose here about the stage at which these objections are being raised, the bottom is now on, but tomorrow only those others, and that is why Mr Yanar really needs to be asked: it is not now. But the Finns of Peru came because there it was directed at the bottom.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u64	Madam President! Thank you for your clarification and thank you for the fact that we are now in control of these protests. Ladies and gentlemen! In this bill, the Government proposes a tax on peat for an increase of EUR and 10 cents — EUR and 10 cents. Even after this increase, peat taxation does not follow the current energy tax model and is below the level at which the tax was at the beginning of the government. It's below what it was when the government started. The IPCC's recent report on climate change called on all countries to do everything in their power to halt climate change to 1.5°C and requires genuinely ambitious action against climate change, greater ambition and a faster timetable. Finland needs to take its share of responsibility and start the dismantling of fossil fuel subsidies, and the use of peat should be eliminated by 2020, which is just a few years from now. We Greens are proposing that a significantly higher increase in peat tax will be made as early as next year, amounting to EUR 2.2, which would make this a bigger increase and a more ambitious action. The second point relating to this bill is that of aid to agriculture. The government proposes that farmers be compensated for the damage caused by the dry summer. We believe that it is justified that we share responsibility for the adverse effects of climate change, but this should be done in a sustainable way. The Government proposes that part of the compensation be paid to farmers in the form of an additional refund of the energy tax on agriculture, in the same way as in 2018, when the crop losses caused by heavy rainfall occurred. Directing compensation to farmers through additional energy tax refunds is not sustainable. It does not target the areas most affected by drought, nor does it support the fight against climate change. A more sustainable model must be built to pay compensation, which will better guide the money to those who have suffered the most damage. We have talked about this in the past, that is to say, farmers must be supported, but this must be done with a sustainable model. It has often been discussed in the past that this model is not sustainable, does not take account of the whole or of the fight against climate change. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u65	Mr President! A few comments on the report and this bill. As most speakers have already said, the replacement of crop damage by the chosen model is problematic. Crop damage as such must be compensated, but a model should be found that would be sustainable and properly targeted. Unfortunately, this chosen model is not. This chosen method is not fair to the victims of the damage and leaves the farmers using renewable energy on the mop, even if they have been affected by the crop. This type of compensation system, especially if it is used systematically and year after year, can have a long-term negative impact on investments in renewable energy on farms. It can even prevent them if it is seen that through fossil subsidies these crops will be compensated. Instead of discouraging farms to switch to renewable energy, we should encourage them to do so and find better ways to compensate for crop damage. Mr President! This bill also contains good elements, and a good element is that the taxation of coal will be tightened by these changes in taxation. That is the way forward, for taxes on polluting fuels must be raised. The fight against climate change cannot wait and we must do our part. There is also a slight increase in peat taxation. However, we would see that it should have been increased more to better reflect the actual climate emissions of peat. Mr President! Households' transition to renewable energy must be encouraged not only by fiscal elements and economic guidance, but also by making these changes, environmentally friendly energy solutions, possible also for households, including low-income households. In other words, we need not only a stick, but also carrots and incentives. Household reduction should be changed in order to make it easier and more conducive to investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency and also to be used for energy renovations by housing companies. On the other hand, we also need ARA subsidies, especially for very low-income households, so that they can do these energy renovations. Especially those households, low-income people who are in value-loss areas where energy investment does not necessarily pay for themselves when the value of the dwelling falls, would need support for energy renovations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u66	Mr President! This government proposal is an environmentally friendly one tolerable one. The main purpose is probably to raise tax revenue to finance tax reductions from elsewhere, but the steering effect, albeit small, is not entirely wrong for many of them. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Government's proposal has not been carefully weighed in terms of various instruments of guidance and support. It is clear that the same amount of money could make more effective efforts to reduce emissions. It has not been properly estimated what the impact of the changes would be, above all, on the exchange of oil heating systems for more environmentally friendly heating systems. Such choices could perhaps be better steered towards tax increases, for example through direct support for changing heating systems. The previous government had a small, modest subsidy of EUR 10 million for energy renovations in small-house heating systems, which is still very much needed today. The distribution effects may be that the proposal is unfair after all. There are a number of different measures in one proposal, and one of our repeated tragedies is, of course, the procedure for compensating for agricultural crop damage. It has become clear that the damage to crops caused either by drought or moisture cannot be quickly compensated except by such a rapid additional subsidy to the tax system, whose environmental impact is unfavourable and inconsistent with the climate and energy strategy. What is curious is that, while a year ago it was recorded in the report on this one-off subsidy that this is incompatible with the national climate and energy agenda, it was not possible to do so. This certainly shows a great deal of complacency on the part of the government, which has also failed to comply with Parliament's statement last year that we need to develop a sustainable, repetitive and fair system of compensation for crop damage. In the course of the year we have not heard a peep about such a system, and this one-off method, as the most skeptical of us may have guessed, has now been brought here again. On the other hand, there is no alternative at the moment, so I do not think it is responsible to reject this whole small amount of money when there is no better method.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u67	Yes, it is clear once again what the Greens represent: the party of the big cities does not care about the countryside. The Greens are proposing a disaster in terms of compensation for agricultural crop damage, [Department : Elections approaching! ] We in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and in the Section for Agriculture know that we need to choose a model that is acceptable to the EU, and this energy tax refund model is a model approved by the EU. If we are suddenly to get support for farmers who have suffered crop damage, this is the only working model that can be dealt with now. I would like to ask the Greens and the Left: what is your model, which can be accepted this autumn when you insist on being a substitute instead of a replacement for this government proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u68	Madam President! Thank you first of all, Mr Wallin, for your excellent speech. That is just the description of the green policy: let's stand firm on nothing and hold on to the air, because that's what we're gonna do. At least you can shape your opinions and get new supporters, but the realities are somewhere far behind the forests, where they may be. Well, at least I haven't been able to track him down. But if we look at the crop damage situation in agriculture, for example, then we are obliged to recognise in this Chamber that agriculture must be able to operate in this country just as it is in the whole of the EU. This has been agreed in our accession treaty and must be adhered to. We're here at 60. north of the parallel, very north. If we are left here in Finland to be fed here by someone when the next crisis comes into the world, it is the kind of faith that does not exist. Every independent nation must be able to manage its own food economy itself. We have no other choice, and this is done by an excellent system in this country, with private farms and family farms doing this job. It saved us from famine in the last world war, and it is also our strength for the future: a decentralised food production system that produces the world’s cleanest food. All the other speeches, such inconceivable comments by the Greens, merely illustrate that things are out of control at all. Well, there's nothing I can do about it. Secondly, energy policy, the taxation of peat. But remember the facts about how this peat tax goes. If the emission factors are considered, Statistics Finland's website contains fuel classifications on how to calculate emission factors. After all, the emission factor is the amount of emissions generated by this fuel when one unit of energy is produced, e.g. kilowatt-hour or megawatt-hour. Thus, for example, a factor of 55 has been agreed for natural gas. For wood, this factor is the smoke-hardest measured at 109, but because it is about renewable energy, which, if not used in the forests, is acidified, then it is 0. As Mr Yanar well knows, with peat it is 107. These data can be found on Statistics Finland's website. So when wood and peat are burned as alloy fuel, the ratio is about 30 percent on average — little depending on how wet it is — and 70 percent on wood. In that situation, by simply calculating, the emission factor — the amount of emissions produced in the production of a single energy unit — is 32 for wood and peat in combined combustion, compared with 55 for example for natural gas, which is mainly methane and other hydrocarbons. So by burning wood and peat at the same time we produce less emissions than natural gas alone and then we get 5% more electricity because it increases the temperature. And it's completely emission-free, because when that temperature rises, all the emissions will burn off and the smoke-hardest head will just become water vapor. You might want to get to know the facts. Freedom of opinion is, but we cannot afford our own facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u69	Madam President! It seems that a number of parties, as in principle, are in favour of this government proposal, even though some of the opposition parties had statements in this regard. But, in the big picture, of course, we must get rid of fossil fuels, and in that sense this government proposal will increase the tax burden on the use of coal, for example, in relation to the gas we have just been talking about, not to mention how it will affect it when this government has decided to ban the use of coal altogether. If Finland wants to be at the forefront and get rid of fossil fuels, then radical decisions must also be made that send a signal to the rest of the world that we will also get rid of these fossil fuels. It is also, of course, the case that this is related to another proposal that is being discussed in this House, namely the draft law on the obligation to mix renewable fuels or biofuels, in which the obligation to mix will continue to exist in heating, machinery, other fixed engines from the beginning of 21 C.E. After all, the decisions that actually came in Vanhanen's second government created the market with political decisions. If we want to quickly reduce the use of fossil fuels, then we should increase the use of that renewable share there. Quite a few EU countries already have a blending obligation. In Finland it is at the top of the list, but if you look at the largest market area of Finnish oil processor Neste, for example, it is probably California — very progressive in its own energy policy. To conclude, I would like to say that there is, of course, also an increase in peat. I would like to remind this Chamber, and perhaps the Greens, that during the last parliamentary term, when you have tightened up the taxation of peat, the driving order is actually changing and then the use of coal is increasing, so that we go from ditch to ally and by no means get what you are probably after. I would also like to remind you that these have been linked together by the EU Commission on the rack for the support of forest chippings and the use of peat. At a time when the price of allowances is rising, of course, the use of peat will be reduced. Of course, from the point of view of domestic fuels, it makes more sense for us to use forest chips, we are moving this capital, too, to renewable fuels, hopefully, rather than allowing coal heaps here to spoil our landscape. In Stockholm, this was done a long time ago. But it is very important to remember that the driving order must not change, and also remember that our combination of electricity and heat in energy production will remain strong. It is very important for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u70	Madam President! Firstly, it seems that Mr Hoskonen, the Prime Minister's energy and environmental expert: That was a completely new statement for me but, on the other hand, a statement of real hope when you said that when you burn wood and peat at the right temperature, there will be nothing but water vapor, that there will be no CO2 emissions at all. It is certainly worth introducing such technology and then burning it with the ratio and the temperature to achieve this carbon dioxide-free and water vapour-only emission at the end of the pipe. As far as the plight of agriculture is concerned, it has been true because of the wetness of the previous summer and the drought of this summer, but when the tax section has dealt with this compensation and support model for these two years, it has been said that the problematic model is. When it was so wet, help was given to those who could not even go into the fields, when the fields were so wet, could not burn fuel so that they could then get a discount on the fuel tax. Those who dried their wet grain with domestic renewable fuel, such as wood chips, did not benefit, but those who dried it with fuel oil did. Is this right? That is the basis of this criticism. At the time, the committee — and Parliament — agreed that a model should be found that treats those who have suffered correctly, not to reward those who have not suffered, is a sustainable model both for the climate and for the support of farmers. The government has not been able to present it. That is why this criticism is still justified. I am not at all sure that the Left Alliance's parliamentary group will vote in favour of rejecting this support, but we have a statement, as the Greens and also the Social Democrats have, that there must continue to be a properly targeted, better compensation model if such problems continue to arise, as is likely to be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u71	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u72	Mr President! Without self-sufficient agriculture, Finland is lost. Crop damage must be compensated for by farmers. It's the basic Finns' line. I'm a little confused about the green line here. If you mean that food is still being produced in Finland, then your line is wrong. Then on EU aid: this has come from the field, from farmers. When it’s payday for Finns, they want that salary to be 15th or 30th. day, we know when it comes, and there are not many delays. But when the farmer receives his EU aid, the aid will come in November. There may be computer system errors in it, delaying it. Farmers have bills, too. What, then, will happen if their payment is delayed? And the amount of bureaucracy has by no means decreased. It's really painful for the farmers. It has not been possible for the EU to reduce the drop.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u73	Mr President! When we think about the great challenges we face with regard to climate change, I am with you amazed at this green line. I gratefully listened to Mrs Wallin's comments on how she defends Finnish agriculture. Is it true that domestic food produced nearby is not of value to the Greens? The goal of the Christian Democrats is that in Finland the fields will remain cultivated and that primary producers will receive the wages they deserve for their work. The best thing we can do is to support and buy domestic food, preferably food produced nearby, and so we get the cleanest, freshest food of all, which also has the longest shelf life. At the same time, this is an environmental issue. Shorter journeys reduce the negative impact on the environment. That is why our group fully supports the proposed harvest compensation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u74	Madam President! Of course, I'm not surprised about this downtown turbulentness. That is why I would leave Mr Hoskose's speeches to his own dignity. Nor is it surprising that the Finns and Christian Democrats are in no way progressive in climate and environmental policy, nor is it surprising. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude] With regard to this crop damage allowance, these same worn-out arguments come from the fact that the Greens would not take care of Finnish agriculture. Perhaps you could somehow reform a little and move on to the following arguments. We have a few criticisms of this support: The first is that it was supposed to be one-off, but it is not. The second is that the model is incomplete, and the government had to find out a better model, but it has not been heard. So let us continue with the imperfect pattern, and what makes this imperfect? A few things:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u75	There's one response here, let's take it here, Mr. Wallin Harry. Then on the list of speakers and Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u76	Mr President! Let's review the production of district heat. It is located in CHP plants with multiple uses: peat and wood in general. 30% peat, as Mr Hoskonen said, and 70% wood. In this vast majority of Finland, district heat is produced except in Helsinki, where it is coal for you, and you are not going to change it
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u79	Madam President! First of all, Mr Yanaril-le, on agriculture: I remember that some time ago you were eager to suggest that agricultural subsidies should be abolished as a whole, because they are environmentally harmful. Then it was only a couple of months before you signed the intermediate question in which you were concerned about the profitability of agriculture. Where is the credibility of your policy? You're going around like a super-ball back and forth in the hallway. [Ozan Yanar’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u84	Madam President! The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) gave us alarming information on where our planet’s state is going if we do not cut emissions quickly, and Finland is part of the EU and wealthy Western countries, of course, at the forefront of emission reduction efforts. Therefore, in our own shadow budget, we propose a much higher tax on peat than the government proposes. Hard coal must be abandoned very quickly, but peat taxation must also be raised and abandoned during the 2030s. As far as domestic food and agriculture are concerned, it is very important that we have our own local food production, because local food is safe and healthy for our citizens. Rural areas are also an excellent place for the production of local energy, such as biogas, and I have to say that the government has really stalled to improve the conditions for renewable energy in rural areas, such as support for biogas plants of a farm size category. This is not what you have done, even if it is very necessary. The fact that our agriculture is now in distress is truly worrying and we must do everything we can to reform agricultural production on a more sustainable basis. Tomorrow's Citizens' Info will include a presentation of the Greens' Rural Policy and Agricultural Policy Programme — a warm welcome to it. As regards the return of energy taxes on agriculture, the committee’s report also stated: ‘The system of refunding energy taxes is not intended to be fully compatible,as theinter-link between compensation and individual loss of farmers is indirect. An additional refund can therefore be obtained from a farmer who has not had any losses. On the other hand, the compensation does not cover the use in which light fuel oil has been replaced by wood chips or biogas.’ So the government directly supports the use of light fuel oil, but you do not provide any support for, for example, the use of wood chips or biogas or encourage renewable energy. The Greens will make a statement at second reading in which we propose that compensation for crop damage must be made in a sustainable way. In order to pay compensation, a more sustainable model must be built to direct the money to those who have suffered the most damage, and the support must be targeted correctly and encourage the use of environmentally friendly energy sources.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u85	Yeah, it's probably good to review both the harvest compensation for the previous year and now this compensation for the drought of the past year. Mr Leppä explained this very thoroughly how, as soon as possible, it might be possible to recover the farmers affected by the loss of crops, and the only model was this energy tax refund model, which could be implemented quickly. There are shortcomings, as has been said here, and that is why there is a statement that we need to think about what is a better model in the long term, but if we want to help people in a time of need, then we need to choose a model that supports when there is an emergency and not in two years' time when you get someone from the EU Commission to approve a support model. This has been covered many times in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. I do not know how your expert, Halmemenpää, has said this in your group, but the question is that it is probably unfair in some respects, but on average it is targeted at those who have suffered losses. Then I wondered a little about Elomaa's knowledge of EU subsidies, because, as you know, when you are an alternate member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the only permanent timetable for permanent aid is by the end of June. Everyone else will come according to how the government sets the time frame, and in this Finland has been very good, the best in the European Union, in keeping payment schedules. After all, we have had a problem with the fact that Mavi, the Rural Service, has not received the location data when they have come from the Land Survey Board, and they have been late and therefore some of the compensation has been delayed. Now, in this food agency reform, in which Evira and Mavi merge, this spatial data unit will also come from the Land Survey Institute, so that it can be ensured that EU subsidies will be paid in due time in the future. But I wondered a little bit about your ignorance of these subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u86	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u87	Madam President! Interesting conversation. Some talk about mothers and others about daughters, for summers are not now brothers to each other if compared to last year and this year. Last year, it may have been flagrant — even more flagrant than this year — when those who used renewable energy for grain drying did not receive any subsidies, even though they had to use more energy just as much as the grain dried up. This year we have had an emergency because of the drought, but we have not been able to allocate these compensations according to the harvest figures, but are now allocated on the basis of fuel consumption. As a result of cereals, we have certain types of land that have produced exactly the same harvests this year as usual, and the world market price for cereals has increased sharply, so that some farms have earned more than on average because of world market prices. You should be able to take these things into account. This has been a year for the government to look at and do that the aid that farmers need this year should be allocated to those who have suffered the most in reality and not, with fuel consumption, as a return. The use of renewables and those farmers must be taken into account, and even at this point we should have looked at whether or not the profitability of the farm is being assessed. I am not going here to evaluate anyone's expertise and knowledge, but I would like to see the debate in the Chamber valued for each other and for the opinions that have been expressed here by the Greens. I believe that Mr Yanar, like Mr Karimäki, has rightly raised the issues that should be taken into account, so that the farmers of renewable energy, those farmers who are geared towards the use of renewable energy, are also on an equal footing at some point, and not only those who use light fuel are the beneficiaries. Those who use biogas from by-products of their own production, for example, in their own machinery, should be there as well, when the energy consumed by those appliances is increased in wet years, as was the case last year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u88	Mr President! Of course, this claim by downtowners that green-driven Helsinki is burning coal is quite true in itself and has its own rhetorical value for entertainment, but I would remind you that when making such statements, it would also be appropriate to keep the nest clean. Recently, the Centre Party youth took the initiative to treat peat as coal and to put an end to its use. So this is being presented by the youth organisation in the centre, which is probably what the representatives of the city centre will be doing in the future to drive down peat production in Finland. So a little honesty came from these speeches. It is up to Parliament to monitor and foster Finland's economy and employment, and in this context I am surprised by these protests, particularly from the red-green opposition, to this motion. Where is your responsibility for these matters? The government already increases the prices of housing and transport fuels too much. The policy of the True Finns is that these costs should instead be reduced. The whole country must be kept occupied and the conditions for living and working must be safeguarded. I therefore warmly support the amendments tabled by our group in the committee's report. When these are voted on in due course, then we will see which parties in this Chamber really have a desire to safeguard Finland's economy and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u89	Madam President! First of all, the central youth's position on the cessation of peat burning is very welcome. It is a fine initiative, and I hope that the people in the centre will wonder how they will approach it. So it's good that young people are progressive. Although this is where wonderful fire talks are being made from downtown, it is a good thing that the downtown youth know what is going on. Now to this end, in connection with this debate: Our position is that agriculture and farmers must, of course, be supported and helped, but this model is bad. I just explained it in a lot of ways. If you open page 7 of the report, there will be a whole page on this issue, which is why this is a problem. So all the arguments I have used are also the arguments in the report. Mr Hoskonen, the people in this centre have also signed. This is not the rhetoric I invented, it is the text of the committee. So you downtown people have signed that this is a bad model. Before you criticise, please read these legislative proposals and reports. This could lead to a more intelligent and better discussion — page 7.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u90	Madam President! I would also recommend that representatives take a look at the work that your previous colleagues in this House have done during the last period, for example, when they questioned the relationship between the city centre and peat. During the last parliamentary term, the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Climate Change has, in cooperation with this House, advocated that foreign fossil fuels should be disposed of first and then domestic fuels. There are the names of all the parliamentary parties on the paper, including the name of your Greens, so I hope that the Greens will also respect the parliamentary line that all the parties have decided together: to give up foreign fossils first and then to become domestic. Madam President! We have been critical of this additional system of refunding the energy tax on agriculture. As the committee itself states, it is a problem because the system is complex that requires the approval of the EU Commission, as has been mentioned here. When distress is greatest, when summer is what it is, the government is not able to perform miracles, but must do according to the elements and actions available. I would also remind you that the majority, the majority of those farms, still use light fuel oil. Of course we hope to be able to invest in biogas and put machines on the chip, but it is not even technically possible for all machines today, not to mention the sector which has lost 25% of annual revenue in many places. Consider the fact that you are investing hundreds of thousands of euros with such a pay receipt — unfortunately not very many of them have been able to do so. So then, of course, that support must target those farms that are still using light fuel oil today, where it is also very much in need. Perhaps, at the end of this period, however, I should like to say that the common concern is, of course, linked to how we can make our energy system even more decentralised. As far as electricity storage is concerned, there are certain elements here, or, if we are talking about European levels, in many farms in Central Europe, a large slice of the farm's income is already coming from renewable energy systems, but it has called for very significant investments and business subsidies — the same corporate subsidies that opposition parties here so often criticise. It is therefore up to us to decide whether we are in favour of or against these subsidies. In my opinion, it may be so long that we can achieve market-based models and, as we have seen with regard to wind power or gas-fired power plants, it is quite clear that there has been a need for state intervention and support, including guidance in that direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u91	Mr President! I would say to Mrs Wallin, when she questioned my sense of EU support, that I believe that the MP is here, so that she also brings up the concerns of the citizens here in the debates. The farmer, who contacted him about a month ago, said that he was late in these payments. Some farmers have been late in receiving their subsidies, and I understand that Mrs Wallin also admitted that this will happen. This criticism, which I made, was that these subsidies should come a little as well as pay, so that you know exactly when the money will come. And maybe I know something about agriculture as a farmer's daughter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u92	Mr President! Rarely in this Chamber has so much been discussed about such a small amount as this increase in the return of light fuel oil, and rarely has so many questions of fairness been seen in such a small amount. Of course, tractors and harvesters will be using light fuel oil, which is fossil, for quite a long time. The majority, I think about four fifths, of this use of light fuel oil is directed specifically at the use of tractors and cutters. There is a shift in the drying of cereals to the use of wood chips, but even though these transfers are supported, it is a matter of investment so great that when the old system, which is based on light fuel oil, still works well, so many farmers are not able to go to such large resuscitations, but it is the direction of the harvest in the drying of cereals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u93	It is true that farmers have criticised the payment of EU subsidies, and in 2016 there was even a tractor march here in Helsinki, and the reason why the subsidies were late was due to the Land Survey's spatial information system. Mavi, the Rural Service, had not received this information in time, i.e. it was at the Land Survey and not in Mavi. A reform has now been carried out since the beginning of next year. Mavi and Evira will become a single Food Agency and there will be a spatial data department of the Land Survey in one part of the future. But as I said, the only time limit for permanent aid set by the EU will be by the end of June. All other subsidies come as the data are available, and Finland has been number one in the European Union. But, of course, I appreciate Mr Elomaa and the fact that you will receive feedback, because the farmer today has a great deal of concern — these discussions on this energy tax refund — that when the money is not enough, everything according to schedule, or so on, the aid will come on time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u94	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u95	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the law on the financing of education and culture activities and the law on free cultural work. Once again, the freezing of index increases as part of central government economic adjustment measures is felt in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. For 2019, savings corresponding to index increases would be made under the Education and Culture Finance Act to finance activities under the Pre-school and Basic Education Act that are included in the index increase. The index increase of museums, theatres, orchestras and art and upper secondary school education in 2019 would be calculated, but the corresponding saving would be taken into account in euro amounts that reduce the average unit prices of each cultural institution and form of education by the amount corresponding to the index increase. On the other hand, it is proposed to amend the Act on Free Cultural Work to calculate the index increase in 2019, but to make reductions in the average unit prices of the liberal educational institutions corresponding to the index increase in 2019. It is proposed that all savings corresponding to index increases be made on a permanent basis. Mr President! These changes, which are due to enter into force on 1 January 2019, have the overall negative effect that we Finns of Finland feel it is best to propose that the proposal be rejected. Finland has traditionally been a well-known model of education. In the last ten years, however, developments have been worrying. The downhill has been clear. Long - term training cuts have not brought at least a slight downhill. Continuous cuts in education cannot be a problem for the future. Of course, the state economy needs to be balanced, but not at the expense of education. Consider the role of education in time when the welfare society was being built. At that time far-reaching decisions were made to strengthen Finnish education. Was it worth it? — Nii-in. Then why do we do the opposite? We, the True Finns, are strongly opposed to the elimination of education. In our view, Finland is still a very good country for young people in many ways, for example, study opportunities are generally available quite well. On the other hand, savings are already worrying in certain areas, for example in access to upper secondary and vocational education and in the number of local education. We emphasise the importance of vocational and secondary education as a basis for further studies. A comprehensive upper secondary school network must be maintained so that upper secondary school education can continue to be provided equally throughout the country. As a turning-of-the-eye trick for a financial cut On the other hand, the Sipilä government has tried to increase apprenticeship training in vocational institutions. Although this objective is acceptable in itself, the government has not allocated enough euros to increase apprenticeship training. Mr President! Financial cuts have also weakened the ability of Finnish museums to perform basic social tasks, such as saving, studying and promoting Finnish culture. Surgery also reduces the employment potential of theatres and orchestras. Savings have given way to liberal educational institutions, where every Finn has been able to study, for example, languages and develop the skills required in working life. The tightening of basic funding for educational institutions is seriously undermining the development of activities in order to better respond to the needs of a changing society. Moreover, educational institutions operating on a savings flame are not in a position to respond in the best possible way to the risks of exclusion. If the funding of vocational training leading to and preparing for work is constantly on the line, how are educational institutions able to carry out their duties? Especially now that there is some improvement in the economy, the proposed cuts are not justified. Mr President! I propose that the legislative proposals contained in the report be rejected. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u96	Mr President! I support the motion tabled by Mrs Elomaa to reject legislative proposals. In fact, I already explained the main arguments behind the government's proposal at first reading last week as to why the Finns of Finland cannot accept these legislative proposals. In this previous speech, Mrs Elomaa made these points very well, but I would like to say briefly that we, the Finns of Peru, want to maintain a wide, comprehensive and high-quality network of secondary schools throughout the country. It is important for all young people, and it is particularly important for those young people whose parents cannot afford to help their underage children when they may have to consider moving to another place in pursuit of their studies. In addition, Finns must continue to be offered the opportunity to develop their own know-how, working life and working life skills in the educational institutions of liberal education. It is very cost-effective in a number of ways, particularly with regard to language studies, but also in other respects, and we believe that these legislative proposals, which we have put forward for rejection, will, if they are implemented, make it much more difficult for this educational task to be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u97	Madam President! I am also in favour of rejecting these legislative proposals, and it is precisely on the basis of the fact that the freezing of the index increase and the continuation of its freezing continue to undermine the opportunities for a high level of education. I drew attention to the fact that the report by the Committee on Culture is also quite contradictory in internal reading. It is very clear and honest to say that, according to expert opinions, the proposal has a detrimental effect on the quality and accessibility of education, and then attention was also drawn to the fact that the impact on regional equality in education, the quality of education, the exclusion of young people or the need to terminate staff or the closure of offices has not been assessed at all, which means that this proposal also lacks an assessment of these significant effects. Nevertheless, the Committee on Culture then states that it considers the government's proposal to be necessary and appropriate. The least it would be would be for this evaluation to be carried out carefully and properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u98	Mr President! After all, this government proposal proposes to freeze index increases in the Law on Financing Education and Culture and the Act on Free Cultural Work. The freezing of these indices has already contributed to the weakening of the foundations of Finnish education and civilisation, taking into account the billion-dollar savings in education, research and civilisation. Once again, the Government proposal has a negative impact on the quality of education and its sole objective is to reduce the resources of education in basic education, free education, upper secondary schools and basic art education. In my view, public finances can only be strengthened by investing in knowledge and growth, not by cutting. Moreover, the continuation of index freezes is no longer justified in a situation where the economic situation has improved significantly and, for example, tax revenues have increased more than expected. As mentioned in the Government's proposal, the providers of education and the providers of educational establishments have had to adapt to the resources available. In practice, this has led to a strong development of inequality by region, while other municipalities have been able to compensate for the cuts made with their own funding and other municipalities have not. This has also led to cuts which have increased the financial responsibility of municipalities and/or individual students for the costs of education. The cuts to liberal education, such as adult education centres, need an even more detailed overview. This has now led to a combination of adult education centres and the closure of offices and higher tuition fees. The same trend will therefore continue, even though the importance of lifelong learning will increase in the restructuring of working life and the role of liberal education in the education of immigrants has also been strengthened. This has also led to a reduction in the range of courses offered by adult education centres, including those that are more expensive. The minimum number of participants at which courses can be started has had to be increased throughout Finland. According to the expert consultation, it has been necessary to increase the fees in almost all adult education centres. Mr President! Furthermore, the Government's proposal does not contain any assessment of the impact of the savings decision, which is a serious deficiency. Permanent and major cuts in the museum industry, art, culture and free cultural work are presented without a view of how these cuts affect social well-being, the preservation of cultural heritage, the development of a multicultural society, tourism and other economic activities or employment geographically across Finland. We are particularly concerned about this basic art education situation, where the new curricula have been launched. The aim is to increase the accessibility and equality of basic art education in different areas. At present, there are major differences in the organisation of different fields of art and regions. The objective of promoting access to basic art education is extremely important and could at best have a significant impact on the realisation of the hobby moon. Mr President! The Social Democrats are opposed to index freezes, which undermine the funding of important basic services and leave a permanent gap in the financing of these activities. In practice, the adaptation of activities combined with other direct cuts in education means layoffs, larger group sizes, lower optionality and a reduction in the number of teaching. The most severe cuts are directed at young people at the risk of exclusion, including those under expert consultation. In the light of the above, I propose that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u99	Mr President! The freezing of the indices of education and culture and liberal education together with the ground cuts have contributed to the weakening of the foundation of Finnish education and culture, and it is very regrettable that the trend will continue next year. The continuation of the freezing of the indices is no longer justified in a situation where the economic situation has improved significantly and tax revenues have increased. Mr President! Finland’s advantage in the world and also in the economy is knowledge and education. When you cut off skills and education when you cut off intellectual capital, cut off from the future and also cut off from the future foundations and pillars of the economy. Finland cannot compete in the world with cheap labour. We can only compete with knowledge, education, productivity, innovation, and these cuts will vaccinate you for a long time in the future. Mr President! The exclusion is linked to a low level of education, and the educational level of Finns must be raised, not decreased. It should be raised both qualitatively and quantitatively. This direction of the cuts is therefore completely wrong, and the cuts can be costly in the long term for the Finnish economy. Mr President! The funding and indices of cultural services have been cut for years. It undermines the preconditions for preserving and developing national culture and also has negative welfare effects, for, as we all know, culture is a very important welfare factor. Of course, it also has absolute value, but it also has positive welfare effects. Culture and investing in it also have positive regional economic impacts, and these cuts to state funding for culture increase regional inequalities, as some municipalities are able to compensate for them in a different way than others. Mr President! It should be borne in mind that the competitiveness of the nation is not solely determined by traditional factors of production, but that intangible capital is very important. I hope this will be remembered. Mr President! The Left Alliance is opposed to index freezes and we are in favour of rejecting legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u100	Mr President! The government's educational cuts have undermined the basis of education and knowledge, and worst of all, these cuts are directed at children and their future. There is a government proposal that will continue to freeze index increases from education and culture. I am in favour of rejecting this proposal. This proposal reduces the resources for education from basic education, free education, upper secondary schools and basic art education. Museums, theatres and orchestras have already had to reduce their activities because of savings decisions. The cuts have also led to a strong trend in inequality, as some municipalities have been able to prioritise cultural activities and have been able to correct government cuts, but in others it has not been possible. For example, for upper secondary schools, group sizes have been increased and the number of optional courses has also had to be reduced. Raising group sizes is certainly an undesirable development, especially in this situation, when this week we are talking about a significant increase in the loneliness experienced by children and young people and the number of children and young people who have no friends. Therefore, all cuts in educational activities, quality of education, level of education, courses provided by folk high schools, cultural services, reduce the opportunities for children and young people to participate, participate in hobbies and receive quality education. These government proposals are totally lacking in the assessment and evaluation of the impact of children,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u103	Mr President! This proposal therefore has a great deal to do with liberal civilised work, the value of which is not necessarily always understood. In addition to this index freeze, I would point out that at the moment the administrators of the folk high school are granted a central government share of 57 per cent of the calculated costs of teaching organised by the folk high school. In my opinion, the percentage of state aid should be increased to the same 65% which corresponds to the State contribution to the maintenance of study centres and sports centres, and this is included in the alternative budget of Christian Democrats. Such an increase to this very base of state participation would improve the equality of liberal education work and improve the ability of folk high schools to continue their activities, to offer high-quality education opportunities for adult students and also to prevent and combat exclusion. But I really believe that these arguments contained in the objections are convincing and well-written, and I support the rejection of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u104	Mr President! Mr Räsänen already said in his first speech how surprisingly critical he felt that this report by the Committee on Culture was. In my opinion, this is also true. How much will it now be affected by the forthcoming elections? I have been able to see that the members of the government parties in the Committee on Education have been feeling pretty bad about many of the government's savings proposals when they have been discussed and, in a way, I regret that they have not been able to find the courage to take a stronger stance on the Minister for Education and the Government, perhaps now the best example of which is this presentation by Prime Minister Sipilä, with which he came out less than a week ago, that the Centre is proposing that a thousand teachers should be employed in vocational training. Well, we have voted on these issues many times here, and I have not noticed any sign of life in this direction in Prime Minister Sipilä and in his buttons. Even now, in a few weeks' time, there will be a chance for the Prime Minister to show us whether he is really serious about what he is doing in his very own right and probably deliberate way. Well, this proposal under discussion does not deal with vocational education funding, but I think it is now appropriate in this context as an example to highlight. I cannot help but commenting on Mr Räsänen's suggestion that the state funding of folk high schools should be raised to the same level as the study centres. I agree very much and not alone because I am an honorary member of the People's Academy Association. I am, in fact, the one who grew up in liberal civilization. I wouldn't be a congressman, a principal, or here if they hadn't given me wings, a folk high school, and so forth. We have to put it on the working list now and then look at the possibilities of moving in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u105	Mr President! I could not help asking for this speech when the Greens always see the weed in the eyes of one another, but not the beam in their own eyes. The Greens were in the last government, and the chairman was Ville Niinistö. With the Greens on the board, over 800 million were cut out of education. Mr Karimäki forgot to tell us all about this. [Ozan Yanar’s interlude — Hanna Sarkkinen’s interlude] — — — — I told you that the Greens have cut 800 million euros in training. — They will never remember this, nor will they remember the fact that when the Greens were on the board, there was no reform of upper secondary school education, there was no investment in primary school, there was no reform of primary school teacher education, there was no progress in the necessary reform of secondary vocational education or much more. This is honest to say that the Greens acted in this way in the government and then Jesus in this Chamber — I'm sorry if that was an ugly word. So their language and activities are of this type, and when they are clearly superior to others, I understand that they do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u108	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I did not beat the shit out of Mr Heinonen's speech, but because very loudly longer texts are repeated over and over again in the same short speech from that Chamber, and that is a little too much. In the future, not so many long lines will be allowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u109	Mr President! It is particularly interesting that Mr Heinonen is the person today who confesses and teaches others what is a contradiction between words and deeds and what is honesty. It was precisely today that Mr Heinonen, who publicly said that he had signed a citizens' initiative aimed at abolishing inheritance and gift tax — and called on everyone else in the social media to do so — and who, in this referral debate on 11 October, considered this citizens' initiative to be extremely important and to be supported, today in committee voted in favour of ignoring and burying this citizens' initiative without a report. This was the case with this person who taught others here about the contradiction and honesty of words and actions. Of course, this is amazing. Of course, each of us bears the responsibility for what he does, but this has come to pass, and it is unfortunate that this institution of citizens' initiatives has now suffered shipwreck in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u110	Mr Räsänen rose earlier and apparently asked for a reply, I admit it to him. Please, answer me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u111	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that the economy must be balanced, and that is what the Christian Democrats have done, among other things, when they are responsible for government. But what I think is essential on this issue is that, before the last parliamentary elections, all parties and party leaders made promises that education will no longer be cut off. Yes, it was acknowledged that education has been cut off, and then it was promised that no more surgery would be done. I am well aware of that when I was sitting on those panels of the Presidency, and there was a very unanimous commitment to this. I do not think that the fact that education has been cut in the last parliamentary term is any reason for continuing to cut back on electoral promises. We can see from this report by the government parties that it will have adverse effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u112	Mr President! Mr Räsänen's speech was excellent and can be fully signed. As he also pointed out, before the last elections, all parties promised that education would now be ensured that it would not be cut off. But the assembly went and went out to cut, once again. Mr Heinonen, you are the leading training section party in this country. You cut last time, you cut now, and I find it kind of weird that now you're kind of looking at us. We have said before the elections that, of course, education would not be cut off, and we have talked about the importance of education throughout this period and, for example, we have taken measures in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, now that we have three requests for the floor and two replies have now been asked, those who have asked for a normal speech would not have to wait too long to go along with this list. Mr Myllykoski, Mr Gustafsson and Mr Räsänen have been asked to speak here, and now if you want to speak, press the button as usual.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u116	Mr President! I'd like to have a quiet moment after Mr. Heinonen's speech about that old memory. — I do not really know why this debate is at this level, that instead of the facts that were in a way during the last period, we are attacking and forgetting the role of the Prime Minister’s Party. In that sense, I am not speaking from the leading training-cutting party. Let's live today. Let's discuss this presentation. What's here. I believe that Mr Räsänen and Mr Gustafsson have made the right points here in relation to this legislative initiative, which we are discussing here. It is important to note that everything that can produce culture and well-being is important for us, and I think it is very important that we also dare from the Adult Education Centre and from all sides to be able to bring people into creative sectors. When we cut something off, we usually have the creative sectors first, and then we are there for the technical fields and subsidies, and we understand vocational training. But it must be noted that if you look at the creative sector students often move to industry and production because they are innovative and skilled people. But, Mr President, this is it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u117	Mr President! After this good and constructive, almost amicable, good speech that the representative gave, it is worth considering what to say. Mr Heinonen, I may be a little bit left to evaluate the previous government and its education policy, but I would remind you now that what was done then in education was based on a jointly negotiated government programme. I think Mr Heinonen completely forgot — knowingly or otherwise — the major reforms, laws and others that were implemented during that period. I'm not spending my time on it right now. At the end of my ministerial term, I remember having made two strips of memos containing twenty big and medium-sized things that I had been launching and putting into effect. That is what I want to say in the Minutes. Then, just as Mr Räsänen said, the savings that have now been made have largely, almost all, been too much. I have already said in this Chamber that during the previous term of the government, savings were already made to the very surface — does Mr Heinonen understand what is meant by the surface? [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u118	Mr President! Now Mr Gustafsson is actually using an unpleasant language here in Parliament. I have not understood that a person who considers himself a civilist uses that kind of language.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u119	Mr President! Yes, I think that it is important for all of us, regardless of the party position, to take responsibility for our own political decisions and policies, and if we talk about the decisions that were taken during the last parliamentary term, then it applies to me just as much as to Mr Heino, who was in the same government, to vote in favour of the same proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u125	Chairman! I have been following this tennis match for a while now, and I am trying to think about what this debate sounds like and looks like in the eyes of the citizens. We remember the past and accuse each other when we know that there are some cuts being made every government term that will happen. That's what's gonna happen in the next reign. Can we not now forget these past events and focus on today's issue, as Mrs Myllykoski said very well about me? Let us now focus on this matter and put an end to this tennis game and then continue with other subjects, so that we can get home in good time this evening too, and that the President can get some rest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u126	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u127	Mr President! I would now like to say to Mr Yanar that, after the last elections, the Greens in their alternative budgets during this parliamentary term also proposed cuts in education. This has been proved many times in this Chamber, but you, Mr Yanar, wanted to forget and say that they had done nothing. Even in the alternative budget — which are usually barrels of wishes, where Sitra is stolen many times and the Bank of Finland and others — they proposed further cuts to education and education. This is a good thing to remember. Mr President! Personally, I welcome the fact that there is now an increase of 10 million in the funding for equality in early childhood education. Early childhood education is the most impressive activity in our education pipeline. It can reduce group sizes and also increase staff in early childhood education and day care. I also welcome the fact that the government has now proposed that 10 million additional appropriations be made available for the implementation of the secondary school law — as was hoped for here today. It'll be more than necessary. There are a lot of worrying voices in vocational schools, which is why the government is also proposing an additional EUR 15 million for the implementation of the vocational school reform. This is absolutely necessary and additional funding will continue to be needed to push forward the reform of vocational schools. I also welcome the fact, Mr President, that this current government wants to strengthen equality in education and, in order to promote it, a new secondary material supplement of around EUR 600 per year will be introduced for those who face economic challenges in secondary education. So they're getting this special focus. And when it comes to civilisation, I also welcome the fact that in future language education will begin in this country already in the first grade. It is a good reform and will strengthen our success in the future. In the future, we should invest in education and knowledge. When the state finances are in order, it is the best friend of the poor, but it is also the best friend of education, children and schoolchildren, and now the economy is getting quite better than it was four years ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u128	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson must be commended for two things: Firstly, during his ministerial term, a major reform was carried out in order to strengthen school peace, which became topical, inter alia, because: It had been interpreted by the Attorney General’s Office that young people caught smoking cannot be sanctioned as a kind of pedagogical sanction for writing drugs about the dangers of smoking. And the second thing you can acknowledge to Mr Gustafsson in this regard is that he defended his smaller ones, the Greens, in his previous speech. But, Mr Gustafsson, the fact remains that many major educational reforms remained in the portfolio of Minister of Education Kiuru and never came here. [Left : Aijaiai! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u131	Mr President! It is always a little tired of having a debate with this leading sectional assembly, which has liked to cut out of education at least in the last few months when you have been in the government, and then comes here to teach us. You cut in the last government, now you cut even bigger. We have promised in our alternative budgets that this period's cuts will be cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u134	Honorable Speaker! In this debate, you can see that there is much talk of the past and the old when you have to look to the future. It is a well-known and well-known fact that in the coming decade, one million Finns will have to be re-educated to new occupations. In fact, this second part of the Government's report on the future contains good proposals for action in this regard, including the introduction of artificial intelligence to help identify knowledge. In addition, attention would be paid to focusing on meta skills, i.e. how people can quickly transform their skills, and to supporting forms of continuing training that enable people to quickly focus their skills on new areas and new tasks. In addition, an educational voucher would have to be given to those over 35 years of age, and the ratio of graduates to their own educational institution would have to be lifelong. In addition, this competence needs to be developed in such a way that it can help and support in many life situations. In the future, the evolution of the professions will be rapid and the skills required of us in working life will change rapidly. In my opinion, in these training discussions, we should pay more attention to that future. Well, of course we are talking about this government proposal, we are at the second reading, but this was my reflection on the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u135	Mr President! I knew that representative Ozan Yanar of the Greens would not answer Mr Zyskowicz's question. I ask you, when you think that the training cuts that have now been made were so bad, why did you Greens cut 800 million last season when you were in the government? What was the reason you wanted to cut out of education when Ville Niinistö was your chairman, 800 million? [Ozan Yanar’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u136	Mr President! Absolutely the last speech. I would like the President of the Finnish Parliament to have the right to end the debate. You see, this serves no one. — And Mr Heinonen stopped there. I say quite nicely that I think that this rhetorical style of yours is a childish one now that you are chasing the Greens, why not cancel the cuts of the previous regime. This is exactly what I said, a completely inappropriate rhetorical procedure. If I were the President, I would beat the shit out of you that the debate was over.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u137	The Minutes state that this was not suspended or closed following Mr Gustafsson's speech and appeal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u138	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u139	Mr President! The report has been accompanied by an objection from the Christian Democrats by Mr Östman. It proposes that the soft drinks tax should also take into account energy drinks, which in recent years have increased significantly and become more widespread, especially among children and young people. Last year, according to a school health survey, as many as 18 percent of boys and 8 percent of girls in upper secondary school drank energy drinks three or more times a week. After all, they are beverages that are very sugary, contain caffeine and other ingredients that can have a lot of health damage when consumed, such as sleep problems, weight gain, anxiety and, above all, deterioration in dental health. On this basis, I propose that Parliament adopt the statement attached to this objection, which reads as follows: ‘The Parliament requires that government measures be taken to introduce a harmful tax on energy drinks as part of a soft drink tax’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u140	Mr President! Mr Räsänen presented my objection in such a perfect and good way that I think it sensible to support his proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u141	Mr President! Let us move from education to public health and try to stay as far as possible. Young people's obesity and obesity are a major public health problem for us and an ever-increasing challenge for the future. Of course, there are many reasons for this, but according to studies it is quite clear that sugar and sugary products, especially soft drinks, are quite strongly involved in the young people who gain weight. In that sense, this is an important issue. The price affects consumption, the more it affects. Of course, you have to stay in moderation. Tax: Of course, tax has a fiscal purpose for the Ministry of Finance, but it is not bad. It is a win-win situation that the state is also receiving funds for important tasks through this. There are problems with the structure of this tax, which are rightly addressed. It is not as easy as a tobacco tax or an alcohol tax, and I understand that further consideration is being given to the ministries. It would be necessary for this tax to be phased out in the future so that it would take much more account of the sugar content than it is today, in other words that there would be more tax on high sugar drinks and, of course, that this energy drink issue should be included. Finally, Mr President, I cannot help but say that I believe that this sugar tax should be refunded. That was removed on the basis of lobbying by the industry and given the wrong impression that the EU would ban it. This was not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u142	Mr President! I can only sympathise with Mr Puska on this right issue, which, however, does not seem to be taken seriously at all by the government he represents. So a statement has been made here, a unanimous statement by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that a health-based tax should be introduced. That was two years ago, and the government has done virtually nothing about it. Instead, what we have here is a purely fiscal tax designed to finance a reduction in the vehicle tax. It does not, in fact, have any significant health policy implications on the basis of criteria, which, however, have in some strange way been involved here. In other words, this fiscal tax means that the existing soft drinks tax will be increased without even considering the content of this article, without even considering the fact that the earlier increases have made the Finnish juice industry more difficult and will even continue to have a ratio of one to four diluted juices of 11 % — a significant reduction in the cost of further processing of Finnish, employment and rural products, berry and fruit products, from which this government, in its government programme, I recall, said that the cost of industry should not increase. All industrial species are equal, but others are more equal than others. Therefore, the only sensible solution is to reject this bill, as we do in protest 1, and also to adopt two statements, one of which still calls for this health-based tax, on which we have been sweetly agreed, and the other, to think a few more steps further, namely that the health base is one of the elements of sustainable development that should guide the whole of VAT and then be one step towards the big objective of sustainable development, namely VAT. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u143	Mr President! I support Mr Haraka's motion for rejection and the motions for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u144	Mr President! I would just like to say briefly that the representative: Mr Puska is very expert in commenting on this proposal, and it is good that the committee's report states that this possible emphasis on soft drinks should be assessed in the future on a more health-based basis. I really think it should be recognised that taxation can also contribute to public health, and it must be remembered that these harmful effects of sugar affect not only weight gain, weight gain, diabetes, but also oral health, dental health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u145	Mr President! Mr Harakka is on the right track, but it must be remembered that, unlike tobacco and alcohol, the taxation on food, food, is extremely complex and does not least apply to sugar, sugar-containing products. There are so different types of products, there is added sugar, there is natural sugar. We would all like to see support for domestic berries. In this respect, I know that there has been a debate within the ministries on what would be the solution that would truly combine the different needs of the state and would also be beneficial to health and also fiscally and technically manageable. This is a very complicated matter. The bigger picture is also the one to which Mr Harakka quite rightly pointed out that the health and sustainable development of the diet is not just sugar-based, but involves broader issues. And in this respect, it has always been wondered from time to time whether there could be any development of alviasia in this regard, but it is a much bigger and more difficult matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u146	Mr President! Of course, Mr Puska is absolutely right that this is an extremely difficult tax technical issue. But in fact, I would challenge the government to even consider what are the international examples that have been deliberately ignored here. In fact, the government's proposal shows that, despite the EU's real and imagined positions, it has been possible to make different health-based taxes across the European Union when it has had the will to do so. A sugar-based tax has been introduced in the EU in Spain in Catalonia last year and in France this year. Similarly, at the beginning of May this year, Ireland introduced a health-based tax on sweetened drinks. A graduated sugar-based soft drinks tax has also been prepared in Estonia and its introduction has been provisionally approved by the European Commission. Similarly, in other EU countries, such as Belgium and France, unsweetened berry and fruit juices, unlike the present proposal, have been exempted entirely from the soft drink tax. The experience of recent years in other countries shows that it is possible and justified to impose a tax based on sugar content or other health or sustainable development characteristics, but this cannot be done solely on the basis of fiscal criteria, that it should be considered in advance what kind of cash pool should be collected for the purpose of then transferring it to the reduction of another tax. That is the only way to make the situation that is now worse. That is why I feel that this political preparation is irresponsible and that I share the suffering of officials who have had to implement this, but above all, as has been said, on behalf of Finnish rural businesses and the juice industry, I have a very serious concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u147	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u148	Mr President! In the opinion of the Swedish parliamentary group, we need a tax policy in which the employee gets more hands on it. We are firmly convinced that households with more income at their disposal will boost the economy and thus create a basis for a more diverse service provision. In this respect, the government's proposal for next year's Income Tax Scale Act is a step in the right direction. However, we believe it is right to reduce labour taxation only if it is done in a socially just way. I therefore propose that Parliament approve the draft statement of objection 4 which reads as follows: ‘The Parliament requires that the government prepares the tax reform in accordance with the model of the RKP,where labour taxation is calculated and consumption taxation is moderately increased.’
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u149	Mr President! The committee's report is accompanied by an objection from 5 representatives by Mr Östman. I propose that Parliament adopt the two statements annexed to it, the first of which reads as follows: ‘The Board of Directors requires that measures be taken without delay to amend Article 95 of the Income Tax Act,in order to amend Article 95 of the Income Tax Act,to limit the eligibility of labour market organisations’ membership contributions to 50% and The second proposal for a statement: ‘The Commission requires that the government, without delay, take measures to refund the reduction I would like briefly to justify this latter point by the fact that we had the provisions of the Income Tax Act on child deduction in force in the tax years 2015-2017. Indeed, during the last parliamentary term, proposals were made to this effect and the tax was reduced at that time if the taxable person had a minor child in custody at the end of the tax year. This child's allowance went away from the beginning of this year. Originally, the child-reduction system was created to compensate for the operation of child supplements and should not have been removed because that child supplementation has not been fixed. In terms of family policy, I think it is important that we continue to maintain this child allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u150	Mr President, värderade talman! Mr Nylund made an excellent proposal, a proposal for a statement under protest 4, and I warmly support it. It is a very well thought-out entity, so I can very well support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u151	Mr President! After Mr Nylander has spoken, I too am keen to support the proposals made by Mr Räsänen. These changes that we have proposed are intended to provide better support for families with children and to place the treatment of labour market organisations' membership contributions in a better position with the membership fees of other associations of general interest. The changes in the objection are part of the alternative budget of the Christian Democratic Parliament Group for 2019. I therefore support Mr Räsänen's statements with this speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u152	President! I would like to submit three motions for resolutions to the House for approval, which can be found in objection 6. The first concerns the matter of increasing middle class purchasing power and how it can be done correctly in the near future, during the forthcoming government term. Our proposal is that the increase in purchasing power should be included in the increase in the employment rate and scale changes should be made and the reduction in labour income increased as soon as the employment rate starts to rise closer to 75. The second proposal concerns the child allowance mentioned earlier in this Chamber and its return. Indeed, the central point here is that child allowance was a compensation for child replacement surgery. Now we propose that child allowance should be returned in the form it was before. Our third proposal is to reduce development aid, which is in line with our development aid model. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u153	Mr President! The government will continue its unequal economic policy, which will weaken the position of the lowest-incomed by continuing the index freezes for the fourth year, and tax policy has so far brought little relief to the situation of the lowest-incomed. In particular, beneficiaries of benefits have been deprived of reliefs, which have been distributed more generously to the government’s own backup forces. That is why I would like to make the proposals for statements in response to protest 2. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u154	Mr President! I am very pleased and honoured to support the three proposals made by the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance, Mrs Vähämäki, which will increase fairness, bring flexibility and look to the future, including the future of our children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u155	Mr President! Fair taxation requires that each person participates in the payment of taxes according to his or her ability to pay and that taxation compensates for differences in income. In addition to inheritance and gift tax, state income tax is the most progressive form of taxation. Especially now that it is justified for environmental and climate reasons to increase harmful taxes, which are typically equal taxes, we must ensure that the ability of the tax system to equalise income and wealth taxes is maintained or, rather, increased. However, for a long time now, since the beginning of the 1990s, we have gone in a different direction. The benefits of economic growth have been greatest for the most well-off. In the light of the latest tax data, the earnings of those making more than 300,000 net increased in 2017 by more than one quarter, while the amount remaining in the smallest income brackets decreased or remained roughly unchanged. The differences in wealth are greater than in decades. Without progressive taxation and transfers, economic inequality will increase too much. The Sipilä Government has reduced the income equalisation effect of the tax system and increased inequality. The main benefits of tax changes have gone to high incomes and holders of large capitals. Huge tax reductions in billions have also weakened the financial position of central government finances and made it difficult to maintain the welfare state. However, there are some positive changes in next year's budget, above all the government's decision to increase the basic reduction in municipal taxation, which is a step in the right direction. Mr President! The Left Alliance option clearly increases the progressive nature of the tax system and pays a relatively higher tax on large incomes. In our model, the income left in the hands of the overwhelming majority of Finns will increase, even though the income tax scale will be tightened, as we will also cancel the changes in social insurance contributions under the kiky agreement. This illustrates the huge transfer of income from employees and the public sector to businesses. One of the main problems of income tax in Finland is the possibility of obtaining a significant tax advantage through a so-called change in income. In other words, income will be converted into capital income, which will be increased by a tax-free rate or a very low tax rate. There has been no desire to address this problem, even though it has been highlighted in the Government's own reports. The Left Alliance model fills this loophole and the reform strengthens our tax base, makes the tax scale fairer and increases tax revenues by around EUR 355 million. The longer-term objective must be to ensure uniform treatment of earned and capital income in taxation. Mr President! Finland's taxation must continue to balance the income and wealth gap and make it better and secure the financing of the welfare state. Oversized tax cuts will take us further away from achieving this goal. Mr President! More about our tax policy objectives can be read in protest 3, and I would like to make the statements in protest 3 for approval.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u156	Mr President! After that balanced and very worthy speech, after an excellent presentation by a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which strengthens Finnish democracy, it is easy to agree with it and to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u157	Mr President! The Greens' alternative budget is raising people from poverty. We improve people's basic security, and one of the key things is to increase the basic deduction of municipal tax. We are raising it considerably more than the government, and this is because it is precisely the lowest-income people who most need help. In his own speech, Mr Yanar made four statements in response to the Green protest 2 for approval. These statements are in line with our alternative budget. They concern the Income Tax Act and the Law on inheritance and gift taxes, and they increase the fairness of taxation. So we're proposing to remove the government's forest gift reduction. We are also proposing changes to tighten the dividend tax on non-listed companies and then we are proposing an accelerated timetable for extending the interest rebate on the mortgage. We also require the government to cancel the reduction in its inheritance tax. These statements in their entirety can be read in response to protest 2, and I support the proposal made by Mr Yanar that these statements be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u158	Mr President! The current government's tax policy is as exhausted as its entire policy. The reforms of the SDP to the 2020s include a comprehensive, well-founded and scientifically balanced tax programme. In line with that and with the alternative budget, we are making 9 statements under protest 1, the most important of which are so-called labour income support, i.e. negative income tax, which would encourage low-paid work. Similarly, we propose a household allowance for low-paid and low-income, even for pensioners, which would also apply to energy renovations, and that the extension of the household allowance should also be prepared for housing companies in blocks of flats and terraced houses. In addition, the promotion of start-ups and the prevention of aggressive tax planning are covered by our 9 statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u159	Mr President! It is very easy to support Mr Haraka's proposals for statements, in line with our protest 1. These are the very new ideas that we need in this political and world context, not only in terms of the development of Finnish equality, but also in terms of the global challenges we face.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u160	Mr President! The representatives of Vähämäki and The Kankaanniemi spoke very well in these previous speeches by the Finns of Peru. First of all, we Finns in Peru want to reduce the tax burden on work by improving the profitability of work, thereby increasing people's disposable income and improving domestic demand and purchasing power. In particular, we want to improve the purchasing power and tax relief of middle-income Finnish employees, employees who earn more than EUR 30,000 a year, and this would be achieved by reducing the tax gap of up to 7 to 8 percentage points compared to Sweden today. We are now proposing a budget of EUR 300 million for this purpose next year, in accordance with our alternative budget. The government has rightly reduced income tax this season, but unfortunately, for example, the taxation of families with children has gone in the opposite direction. As indicated in previous speeches here, it was decided to abolish the child allowance introduced as compensation for the drastic child allowance cuts introduced by the Stubbi Government in 2014 from the beginning of this year. This tax reduction on children has known the net income of up to EUR 400 in a family of four children on low or medium incomes, and we believe that its abolition has been a major counter-attack on families in these very low, actually historically low birth rates. In fact, the Finns of Peru want to restore this child allowance, as is clear from our proposal for a statement. Finally, at the first reading of the legislative proposals, we tabled an amendment in order to bring the taxation of pensioners on the same footing as the wage-earners. Unfortunately, we believe that this very well-founded and good proposal fell last Friday in this House in the vote, but we still believe that the government should continue to work to ensure that the taxation of pensioners is fair and at the same level as that of employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u161	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u162	Honorable Speaker! This government proposal is part of the OECD BEPS project, which includes 15 measures that can be broken down into three parts: unity, substance and transparency. Of these 15 measures, six are ready, eight are working on it — inter alia, the intermediate Community legislation is being finalised by the committee, I think the report has actually come out today — and one, the digital economy and its challenges are fully open. Well, in these two statements, which I am making in accordance with this protest 2, we are now drawing attention to the balance sheet exemption rule and its use. There has been a lot of public debate on this, and I must say that in this case the draft government proposal, which did not contain such gaps, such exceptions, was very good. In our second comment, which we make in this second statement, we draw attention to the method of calculation: whether we should use ebitda or ebit here. Now the government has decided to select an ebit and, according to VATT, it is problematic, especially with regard to municipal companies. As far as these are concerned, I wonder just how this choice has been made and why, because all other rival countries have chosen ebitda. In fact, even with this small choice, the position of municipal companies is somewhat weakened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u163	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. Suggestions made by the small hill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u164	Mr President! I am no longer going to justify why we proposed the waiver of the balance sheet exemption rule, which the Ministry of Finance actually proposed in its first draft law, and also other tightening-up measures. However, such a regrettable observation must be made that the committee's report did not already contain this rather usual follow-up clause, which would have been particularly relevant. As early as 2012, the first regulation on the reduction of interest rates included this follow-up statement in the committee's report, which was probably the result of which these loopholes were then supported at the draft stage, but even these statements do not exist, so we have to present them ourselves as one of the three statements that are trying to save what remains to be saved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u165	Mr President! Over the years, there has been talk in this Chamber of Caruna, that selling a natural monopoly into a private monopoly was a bitter mistake. That is what it was, and that is why the Left Alliance opposed it. But there has also been a lot of talk about Caruna's tax-paying morality. Caruna is now making a profit with a natural electricity transmission monopoly but does not pay the relevant taxes on its profits. Now, Parliament would have, or would have had, the opportunity to block loopholes in the law that makes aggressive tax planning possible, which Caruna also uses for tax evasion. In the context of the reform of this law on interest rebates, Finland would have the opportunity to curb aggressive tax planning by means of interest deductions, but in this government's proposal it will not be used, and that is of great importance with this balance sheet exemption, but there are other problematic details. Under the exemption rule, a company in Finland may deduct all its interest expenses if it shows that the entire international group is as indebted as it is. It is also possible to end up in this situation with a fully artificial debt structure and thus minimise the amount of tax paid to Finland. Thus, a fair amount of taxes will not be paid on the profits of the business carried out in Finland. Unfortunately, Caruna is not the only group where such an artificial debt arrangement avoids taxes. In other words, it is not just Caruna, although it has now been most prominent in public and speeches, but the general principle and the equality of companies, because most companies cannot avoid paying taxes to Finland, even though these large international companies and groups can do so. The Finnish Government is committed to curbing aggressive tax planning. Unfortunately, acts often do not correspond to speeches, but in the preparation of laws they listen with sensitive ears to the positions of tax planning companies and their interest groups. It is a pity that the sections that could have blocked loopholes were voted down in this Chamber last week. It shows that the government’s talk of curbing aggressive tax planning is hollow. However, it is still possible to accept the statements and demonstrate the will of Parliament. I therefore support the statements made by Mrs Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u166	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u167	Mr President! There are many reasons why it is problematic to anchor the law on crime, the law on foreigners and the law on regional supervision. Therefore, first of all, I would like to say that I propose that the bill be rejected. The increase in maximum penalties from the current penalty to the prison sentence is, according to the proposal, intended, according to the government, above all, to have a preventive effect. According to the motion, a high maximum penalty is assumed to be a measure of prevention of crime — a very weak one, therefore, has also been expressed in the government’s proposal. The aim of the abrasion of the penalty scale is to prevent an infringement of the entry ban. As recorded in the proposal, studies show that there is generally no such effect. The proposal is therefore also inconsistent that its introduction states that the violation of the entry ban has increased significantly in Finland, and later the proposal states that the number of entry violations treated as a foreign offence has actually fallen in 2016. In fact, this bill would increase the workload of police, border and prosecution authorities, but also the Court of Justice, translation of documents, interpretation and the costs associated with the use of assistants. The costs would increase significantly compared to the current ones, and these calculations have been estimated at a very low level in this proposal. This proposal is based on the Government's policies on extending the use of coercive measures and is not, in fact, based on real social problems. With the change, the level of punishment would not really change. It is important that the criminal code should not be changed just because of symbolism policy, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention to this issue at such a general level. Perhaps the biggest single concern of this government proposal is that it actually undermines the legal protection of asylum seekers, victims of trafficking in human beings and also refugees, which has already been undermined by a number of legislative changes in recent years. As a whole, there is no real need or, in fact, any real justification for the proposed amendments. The Government's proposal is based on a document on immigration policy measures adopted by the Government on 11 September 2015. It states that a violation of an entry ban imposed on a foreigner should possibly also be punishable by imprisonment. The proposal also implements the asylum policy action programme announced by the Government in December 2015. According to the action plan, an offence against the entry ban is punishable by imprisonment. The proposal states that the majority, estimated at around 75%, of those who violate the ban are Estonian citizens, and therefore, in practice, the registration of the operational programme is essentially purely or mostly targeted at EU citizens. This is not an assessment of the human rights implications of the proposal, and this is, in particular, legislation affecting the status of refugees and asylum seekers, even though we may want to talk, first of all, about some reduction in crime. It is to be expected that the courts will mainly take advantage of the rapid procedure and the written procedure. Even in the current situation, it is clear that in such cases it is challenging to protect the rights of vulnerable groups of people. The conditions and conditions under which a criminal offence under the motion would not be punishable are not clearly stated in the motion. These conditions and conditions are left to international agreements and their application. The principle of criminal law requires that the provisions on penalties be precise and precise in their scope. It should be shown in what circumstances a criminal offence does not result in punishment. I do not think that the reference to international human rights in the drafting documents is sufficient. A new Article 7b(3) should have been introduced in Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code, in which refugees and victims of trafficking in human beings would have been clearly excluded from the application of the entry ban clause. It would have been a minimum change. This government proposal therefore undermines the legal security of refugees and asylum seekers. The proposal does not take sufficient account of Finland's international obligations and is also contrary to the principle of proportionality, contrary to our legal system. The benefits of the proposal are not sufficient to justify a change of law and its positive effects remain unclear, while the negative effects are very clear. I therefore propose that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u168	Mr President! We are dealing with government proposals proposing to amend the penalty for non-entry bans in such a way that a maximum of one year can be sentenced to imprisonment instead of a fine. The explanatory statement of the proposal shows that the government's immigration policy measures adopted by the Government in September 2015 were based on the fact that, as a national measure, the violation of an entry ban imposed on a foreigner might also result in imprisonment as in other Nordic countries. In addition, the asylum policy action programme announced by the Government in December 2015 provides for the imposition of a prison sentence for the violation of the entry ban. The principle of proportionality in the criminal system does not support such a change. The proposal has in no way assessed its impact on human rights. In particular, we are talking about legislation affecting the status of refugees and asylum seekers, which is at risk of undermining the rights of refugees and victims of trafficking in human beings and of making it more difficult in general. It is challenging to protect the rights of vulnerable groups of people. Mr President! At this stage, I support the proposal made by Mr Biaudet to reject these legislative proposals. There are many reasons for this. In committee there were comments, serious concerns, but the representatives of the government parties did not want any changes to the proposal. Among other things, concerns were expressed by the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, Refugee Advice Centre and Amnesty. Relying on the adequacy of existing legislation is not enough, as current legislation does not provide adequate protection for victims of trafficking in human beings and does not identify them. After all, the Government's proposal aims to reduce crime and prevent the entry of criminals, but in committee the government parties were not prepared to add to the wording of the section proposed by the Ombudsman for Equality, which would have ensured that a foreigner who, on the basis of refugee status, is not convicted of an offence against an entry ban who is seeking asylum or a residence permit in Finland, or that in the same way the proposal would not apply to a foreign person who is the subject of trafficking in human beings. Therefore, when this minimum requirement, the motion for a paragraph, could not be made, the consequences of this proposal are very unpredictable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u169	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Economic Committee must give its opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u170	Mr President! This amendment to the Waste Act has a long history since the EU Procurement Directive and its transposition into national law. Of course, that procurement directive gave a lot of room for manoeuvre, but a very narrow view was then chosen in Finland as to the way in which municipal waste companies are treated, for example, in this waste law. In a very complex way, this draft law states that the proposal would add provisions on a data platform for waste and secondary flows to facilitate the detection of a lack of other services related to the secondary waste management obligation of the municipality and thus streamline the procedure in this respect, as well as improving transparency and the competitiveness of the waste sector. In practice, this means that the operation of a municipal waste facility will be made virtually impossible. The waste manager should demonstrate that there is no reasonable availability of a private service provider and only after that a municipal company could be involved in this activity. After all, we are used to talking a lot about freedom of choice in Finland now, and there is absolutely no freedom of choice here, because it is indeed a question of giving unconditional preference to a private service provider. That freedom of choice would be limited to those whose amount of waste is less than a thousand euros a year. This also involves a form of business support. The construction of this information platform, which will then be used to look for this market, would cost the State EUR 700000 and its annual maintenance would be between EUR 70000 and EUR 100000. Since this is a very complex system, it is indeed questionable how such small businesses will cope with this complex bureaucracy. Is it as a result that illegal landfills are becoming more common and, in this way, the good achievements that have been achieved in Finland are being sacrificed under this law? President! I can come over there and keep going. [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen:Yes, please. [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u173	Mr President! The information platform now presented in the Waste Act, i.e. the marketplace, seems to be a government solution to the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises are no longer allowed to flexibly export waste to municipal waste stations because of the previous changes in government legislation that Mrs Myller referred to above. The waste company must therefore provide waste at the market place to waste management companies, because it must no longer export it in a straightforward and flexible manner to the municipal waste station as before. It sounds very laborious, for example, if a small entrepreneur has to sign into the marketplace separately to serve his waste before he can rely on a municipal waste station under subsidiary liability, even if it is right next to it. You can't go in there with your garbage until you're done with this market-place process. The real fear is that entrepreneurs may end up dumping waste in inappropriate sites, in nature or elsewhere, which is far from the objectives and recycling targets of the Waste Act. The great concern is whether this proposal will unnecessarily increase bureaucracy. It appears that the use of a market place can increase the number of paperwork both for the holder of the waste, i.e. for companies and also for waste facilities. The waste management system should aim to ensure that it operates easily, effortlessly, by ensuring that the waste actually ends up where it belongs, and also to ensure that the waste generated by businesses is easily disposed of and that companies can concentrate on their core activities rather than on paper bureaucracy related to waste, which may be the result of this market place. This proposal therefore raises a lot of questions and concerns. Mr President! Finland has received a preliminary remark from the Commission that it appears that Finland will not achieve the recycling targets set by the EU for Finland. The Commission draws attention to the fact that one of the reasons for this is probably that waste liabilities have been constantly amended by legislation. Responsibilities are unclear and the responsibility of the municipality is limited, unlike in efficient waste management countries, where municipalities are responsible and overall coordination and overall management work. Whether this proposal will further increase fragmentation, the complexity of the system and reduce the functioning of waste management, thereby preventing Finland from achieving its recycling targets, is therefore a matter of concern. - I hope not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u174	Mr President! There is a government proposal to amend the Waste Act. In spring, the Waste Act was reformed so that the responsibility and activities of municipalities in waste management were reduced in order to increase competition and business. The responsibility of municipalities was mainly limited to the waste of housing and the market-based activities of municipal waste management were subject to an exit limit of 10 per cent until 2030 and 5 per cent thereafter. Market-based activities include, for example, the treatment of waste produced by companies. The Greens objected to the need to have a higher sales limit of 20 %. However, the municipalities were left with a so-called secondary obligation to manage other waste, such as waste generated by business activities, if there is no market economy operator in the region. This government proposal under discussion clarifies this subsidiary obligation. It is proposed to set up an electronic marketplace that companies should use. At the market place, it would be possible to determine whether there is a market taker for waste or whether the waste must be managed by the municipality on the basis of a subsidiary obligation. The use of the information platform would in future be a condition for obtaining a secondary service from the municipal waste facility if the value of the service exceeds the threshold for which EUR 1000 has been proposed after the transitional period. The establishment of a data base for the recovery of waste and secondary flows seems to be a good idea and can contribute to the circular economy. The cities of the metropolitan area have asked a few questions, and these should be taken into account when the law is being discussed. The proposed very wide-ranging obligation to use a data platform may jeopardise the functioning of waste management and may pose a genuine risk of waste ending up on the ground or in unauthorised disposal sites, in particular in the case of small operators. Small waste station operations such as Sortti stations in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area should be permanently excluded from the obligation to use the data platform in all respects. It is also essential to assess the fact that small businesses in the circular economy in the waste management sector do not become too difficult. Is it too fast for all operators to introduce the system at the first stage? We should also consider gradual progress. Should we first gain experience so that the big players first become part of the system? The cities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area are also concerned about the increased administrative burden on all parties involved. Mr President! I hope that the draft law will be dealt with carefully and precisely from the point of view that all the opportunities for the circular economy will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u175	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 14/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u176	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to extend the Pensions Act, which entered into force in June 2017, to apply it to new age groups. This is intended to ensure the livelihood of people with a particularly difficult labour market position. Support may be paid to those aged 60 or over who have been unemployed for almost five years. However, it is a good thing that unemployment has now improved overall as a result of the economic situation, and in this context there is reason to rejoice at the other end of working life, that is, the situation of young people. After all, we have been told that the number of young people not in employment and education would be 70,000 or 69,000, but according to the information I received a week ago — and it is a good thing — there are almost 6,000 fewer young people out of work or education than there were six months ago. So, according to information I received from the Me Foundation, 60191 young people were exactly out of work or education. Much remains to be done, namely that every year more than 4,000 children become marginalised young people and every year 4600 young people become marginalised adults. No matter how many measures have been taken, much remains to be done. Young people's employment is mainly improved by increasing labour market demand, and it is, of course, delighted that Ohjaamo has also brought a better future for young unemployed people and those outside education and training. But this proper government proposal is a good solution for the unemployed at the other end, i.e. close to retirement age.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u177	Madam President! Just as Mrs Parviainen said very well, this is a very good piece of legislation at the end of her career. But since I have attended an employment meeting of this kind yesterday, I would also like to pay tribute to the various organisations at this sitting: of course, thanks for the fact that our budgets have now taken into account the fact that organisations will then be a little better able to recruit the unemployed, but there was also a very constructive debate that if the active model were to be improved at some point, then voluntary work would certainly be the first step towards working ability. And another very important point I think is that when we have young people, for example, who retire very much because of mental health problems, it would be great for them to be able to get back to work gradually. After all, we have a possible part-time pension solution when we move from working life to retirement, but if we want to move from retirement to working life, part-time is not possible in this system. Perhaps this personal income register will also lead to improvement in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u178	The 24th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u179	Madam President! This legislative proposal, together with the EU's UTP Directive, is a very important piece of legislation. This proposal proposes a food market law aimed at improving the functioning of the food market and safeguarding the position of vulnerable operators in the food chain. The proposal would ensure that producers could obtain contracts for the sale of agricultural products in writing and with a minimum content. In addition, efforts are being made to prevent the use of unfair terms and unfair business practices, or otherwise unfair to another trader, in trade in agricultural products and foodstuffs. To this end, the role of the Food Market Ombudsman is laid down to monitor the implementation of Parliament’s will. As a matter of priority, the High Commissioner for Food will ensure that fairness is achieved by seeking solutions through negotiation and by issuing comments or public warnings, but may also take wrong practices to market law and direct action by means of periodic penalty payments so that it goes on the right track. In other words, the deterrent effect of this legislation is quite large. The background to why this legislation is so important: we have a highly concentrated trade and, of course, because food is an easily perishable raw material, we need to move ahead with it. And once we have a concentrated trade, it is easy to exploit that trading position in such cases, and when we have a very large number of food providers, which are small, this imbalance is considerable. This has also been noted at the head of the European Union, and it is indeed doing this kind of legislation on unfair trading practices, but for once we are a bit of a forerunner, and when the EU is to be called upon, then we will already have such an authority in place to monitor this healthy trade. What, then, is unfair trade? Unhealthy trade is not a hard trade. Of course it's a tough race, but it's got to be fair. Unhealthy practices are those in which contracts are not recorded in writing, even if they are desired by one party. Of course, small players, for example, the weaker party, can ask on their own initiative not even to conclude a written agreement, i.e. unnecessary bureaucracy, this does not create. But in fact a written agreement can agree on the terms of the contract, it can be clarified that, for example, there is no separation from the contract in the middle of the contract period or that there is no change in the terms of the contract or that there is no threat of such termination in the middle of the contract period. Non-payments shall be prohibited. For example, you may have to pay for getting on a shelf, get on a shelf, or have to pay unwarranted marketing fees. In fact, the trade is not doing anything to market the product, but in order to enter the market, such charges must be paid. The risk is passed on to operators reasonably often. When I just said that food is perishable, you can think about the situation that potatoes, for example, are being delivered to the market and then, when they have not been sold, there is such a readmission obligation, a buy-back obligation, as the potato supplier. It's totally unreasonable, because you can't sell these anywhere else. Long payment periods pass the risk from trade to the supplier. Copies are also made in such a way that because of the lack of product protection, this is happening in shops. It is a very common phenomenon from the consumer's point of view that when there is a brand product that may have been product development for months, even years, we see that quite suddenly such a type of product may then, as a private label, come to the store there. I very much welcome the fact that the committee listed these unfair trade practices a little more precisely than the draft law, so that the Food Market Commissioner will then have access to what this unfair trade practice is. The Food Market Ombudsman will be placed in the Food Agency, and that is a good thing, because we have noticed that the Competition Authority could have intervened in this type of activity at the moment, but perhaps the point of view has been that, as long as the products are as cheap as possible for the consumer, it may not have been so closely addressed as to the methods by which the product becomes cheap. But, of course, it is not fair if the price is printed down with the wrong methods. The committee was unanimous in this report and we hope that the matter will proceed in such a way as to open up the office and make the market fairer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u180	Mr President! We should congratulate the committee and its chairman on their unanimous report on this food market law. More broadly: Indeed, the food market in Europe has been a mess for longer. I remember that when I was working in the EU itself, we were prepared for this financial period, and that was when, among other things, an environmental effort was made to get more money into the budget and it was thought that the market would then manage profitability. This did not happen because the Russian sanctions — sanctions and sanctions against Ukraine — immediately came. More generally, the European market has been rather difficult. In Finland, there is indeed a concentrated food market and there is billing. When I was living in Luxembourg, I followed what is being done in France, for example: food is a culture, it is a culture of food, it is not a product of insemination, as we seem to have. At present, the profitability of agriculture, largely due to the market situation, is extremely difficult. On the basis of Mr Karhinen's mandate, an increase of EUR 500 million in entrepreneurial income should be made in order to ensure a satisfactory level of profitability. It is a very demanding task and we must wish every success in this work, where it is certainly the market balance that is at the very heart of it. Indeed, market balancing measures are also taking place in the EU, in a way relating to these harmful trading practices. It may not be possible to expect results there very quickly, but it is important that this debate is conducted and solutions sought. As Mr Kalmari said here, the market can operate strictly, competition can be tough, but it must be fair, and without fair trading practices we will not succeed in Finland. When we think that young entrepreneurs are needed to safeguard food production in Finland, when there are risks and there are no buffers at the moment, it is clear that we must be able to trust that the functioning of the market in Finland is better than it is at present. And I hope that this law and also the creation of a food commissioner, the actions to be taken within the EU and also the awakening and possible cooperation, the discussions between trade and the entire food sector will produce positive results and they will be urgently needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-27-ps-121.u181	Madam President! A little more history of this Food Market Ombudsman: After all, this issue, the unhealthy market, has been discussed in Finland for a long time, probably ten years, and already in the Government Programme we stated that it is necessary to assess the need for changes in competition law and, if necessary, to take action within the framework of EU competition law. This progress was made so that, together with Parliament as a whole, when the committee made a report on food policy, we argued that it was necessary to promote the genuine and competitive functioning of the food market more effectively and, with the necessary legislative measures, to ensure a fair competitive environment for the market. In other words, even then, we agreed together that action must be taken and not just studies. Well, now we're at this point. I certainly hope that this will make the market as fair as possible. As Mr Ala-Nissilä said, the position of the farmer is currently too weak, and all the measures we can take to improve the security of food supply in Finland are good for the whole Finnish people and for our food sector, which employs 300,000 people.
