ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. — Minister Lindström, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u2	Madam President! The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has prepared a draft law amending the Competition Act and some related laws. This proposal will make it more effective to monitor competition restrictions and neutrality. This proposal thus contributes to ensuring a level playing field between economic operators and the competitive nature of the market. The proposal proposes to amend the competition law mainly. These changes will make certain provisions relating to the competence, procedure and information of the Competition and Consumer Authority more effective and clearer. These changes relate, inter alia, to the inspections carried out by the Agency, the obligation of the various bodies to provide information to the Agency and the exchange of information between the authorities. In addition, it is proposed to include an accounting separation provision in the neutrality provisions of the Competition Act. According to the rule of separation of accounts, the municipality, joint municipal authority, province, state or unit controlled by them must keep separate accounts for their economic activities. The purpose of this provision is to enable the Competition and Consumer Authority to be subject to effective market-based pricing control in a situation where a public body or an entity controlled by it carries out both economic and other activities on the market in the event of competition. The proposal also proposes to amend one of the provisions of the Act on the Clearing House of the Grey Economy and one of the provisions of the Act on the transparency and confidentiality of tax information in order to improve the efficiency of the information provided by the Competition and Consumer Protection Office to the other authority. Laws are intended to enter into force as soon as possible, but the accounting separation provision and changes in future provinces would enter into force from the beginning of 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u3	Madam President! The proposed amendment of the Competition Act and others is based on the need for national change. The Competition Act will be amended in two stages. The amendment now being tabled is the first of them. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Act on Competition, but also the Act on the Grey Economic Clearing House and the Act on the Public and Confidentiality of Tax Information, with the aim of improving the enforcement of restrictions on competition and competition neutrality. This will help to ensure a level playing field between economic operators and the competitive nature of the market, as the Minister has just said. The economic impact of the proposal is mainly indirect. Direct regulatory costs are mainly directed at government entities operating on the market in a competitive situation, which must differentiate their accounting records. However, the regulatory burden arising from the Competition Act is ultimately small when the entry into force of the Competition Act is synchronised with, among other things, the draft Regional Law and the entry into force of the corresponding provisions of the future Local Government Act. From the point of view of the efficiency of the national economy, the benefits of the proposals are estimated to be clearly greater than the disadvantages. I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u4	Madam President! The amendment to the Competition Act is certainly justified in some respects, but in this context, I understand that the only reason for it is the changes affecting the regional legislation which come here, and with regard to the timetable, there is still the idea that regions will exist in 2020. When you read Helsingin Sanomat on Saturday, maybe that line is clear as to why this law is needed. Once you have the most right-wing government in a long time, you can see and feel it. All normal human services will also be market-compatible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u9	Madam President! In the context of this referral debate, I would like to ask about the amendment of the competition law, as the Minister himself is present: now, with a very big hand, Mr Paatero's good speech, the public-private interface in the social and health services and the competition law are changing structures in a big way. This government proposal also includes estimates of the achievement of these targets in the fight against the shadow economy. How does the Minister see in what position this government proposal is one of the big goals in order to achieve a greater fight against unfair competition, unfair bidding or other competitions or a hidden economy in the fight against the shadow economy in order to put an end to the recycling of the economy through various Panamanian papers and other tax havens in this society? Of course, there is a slight concern hidden in this question that these proposals and concrete measures to combat the shadow economy will not be taken at the same time as the government is proposing a huge reform to rebuild this competitive environment. How does the Minister see whether the government is going to run away from its objectives or towards its objectives?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u10	Mr President! I would like to remind and point out that it does seem that one of the aims is to maximise profit by human health or by the need for care and care. Just as a practical example, I can tell you about Vaasa: We have this enhanced service manager dimension. We have an enhanced service total of 12 houses, half of which are public houses and half private houses. On the public side there are 0.65 carers, and on the public side it is said that more is needed. It is because there are absenteeisms, and if one person is gone, the system will collapse and it will be difficult to get skilled people to show up quickly. On the private side, however, the carer’s size leaves, with the permission of avi, at 0.5. That's quite a downside. Is this, Minister, what we will then expect in the future if, in this way, things are shared between the private and the public, that the quality of service is simply calculated because we get a better margin for our own activities? This is the thing I am very concerned about, and I would like things like this to be prevented.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u11	Madam President! I listened with a sensitive ear to Mr Paatero's very expert speech on how public health care and private health care are, in this case, subject to competition law and very closely comparable. It just reminds me of how the city of Kotka sold its own occupational health care to a private person. Was it the same situation that there was a desire to undermine health care services and to fund a significant amount of income for the city of Kotka to replace the municipality’s finances? This was an interesting point of view, and I very much appreciate Mr Paatero's expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u12	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here and, among other things, Mr Paatero has raised very legitimate concerns and concluded that this should not be accepted as such. In this situation, Mr President, we must genuinely open our eyes and see what situation we are in today in the midst of this whole reform of social security. This situation is constantly deteriorating and, in fact, last week, practically the whole mess was pulled out of the carpet, when it turned out once and for all that the necessary costs are not known, the planned savings can be equally reversed, i.e. costs may increase. There has been a great deal of doubt here all along about the possibility of some cream peeling and today's theme, namely the desire to create a chance for companies to make profits, and then it is easy for human health to be secondary, which is completely wrong. I think that we could have a little discussion here in this Chamber too. The citizens are really amazed today at where we are going with the wars. Once again, there was speculation about how all this will end. I would, however, like to see Parliament's authority mentioned that government parties would once again consider whether such a reform could be brought to the finish line through various procedures when we know that costs are rising, inequality is increasing and, overall, we have huge risks and grey clouds in the sky.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u13	Mr President! Mr Paatero spoke with great emphasis and care, and his message should also be taken seriously here. They are very big issues and therefore concern the future of Finland as a whole and the practical work of thousands of people. After all, this legislation is linked to the social legislation currently under discussion in Parliament, and this seems to have been one of the starting points for the adoption of this proposal to anticipate this future of social legislation. I share Mr Viitanen's concern that it is difficult to keep up with what is actually being done on this issue of social security. On the basis of the public speeches of recent days, I drew attention to the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Orpo, the Minister of Finance, spoke on Saturday, in which he said that it was not clear that the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party would approve this whole package of social services. It is clear that if you use this kind of speech from such a strong ball, then yes it will now of course make you wonder that what work is being done here if another government party is already thinking about moving on with all the social legislation. That was a very tough speech, and I would like the government to quickly clarify this issue of social security for itself: will it take this reform forward, and is it the case that if the Constitutional Committee calls for constitutional changes, they will be made here, or is it the case that if the Constitution is to be adhered to here, then the result will be that this will not be taken forward? It is time to clarify the speech, and here I am looking in particular at the members of the coalition who are present, who I expect to have the relevant inside knowledge. I wish it would be distributed to the whole gym.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u14	Madam President! When Finland joined the European Union at the time, we chose this path, that we should live in an open society and that competition and normal free trade should also be allowed and promoted. Mr Pakkanen has just made a strong speech in which he said that Mr Paatero's hometown has outsourced this occupational health care and apparently found it to be a good idea and has thereby contributed to this free world. [SirpaPaatero requests reply ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u16	Mr President! After all, competition is good for everyone if it works on a fair footing and with good legislation. But insofar as this legislation is also relevant to this social and regional reform, I would like to ask the Minister: for example, when, on the basis of preliminary calculations in my own region, EUR 600 million is expected and when the social and health sector exports 95% of the budget, how are we able to maintain growth services by 5%? So the province of Ostrobothnia loses, as I remember, EUR 46 per person, while the small province of Central Ostrobothnia loses EUR 230 per person per year. Does this not mean that services will be weakened, and will we really be able to maintain growth services with such limited resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u17	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, in this Chamber we must have institutional self-respect in the way in which we address our colleagues. In my opinion, your way of referring to Mr Paatero was very inappropriate and would like us to stick to the facts and not to make the interpretations that we deliberately try to discredit or discredit the representatives who sit here. We are all elected here by the people, and the fact that people here are barking at others and misinterpreting others in the way you did is very inappropriate. Worried about whether the money will be enough for growth services, Mr President, is perfectly justified. Now, if we look at what funding mechanisms make possible on the social side, today's Helsingin Sanomat was a very descriptive story about the situation in Eksote. This is Marja-Liisa Vesterinen, one of Eksote's leaders, who says that Eksote differs from the government's social welfare model. He fears the unity of the service chain, which undermines freedom of choice, and considers that the expenditure development of 0.9% is also too severe for South Karelia. And then the end of the flood — he says: ‘if any, there is no need to narrow down the service network.’ We are dealing with very important issues here in the Chamber, and I would ask that our institutional self-respect require us to listen to the experts and to take decisions precisely on the basis of the views of the experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u18	Mr President! Many of us must have listened to the Prime Minister's interview on the reform of social welfare and health care, the reform of the regional administration. In that, I think the Prime Minister very calmly and factually explained what the objective of reform is, where it goes, how to achieve results and productivity. It is important that Finland be able to reform. Of course, the public sector is in charge, but the private sector may be involved in the provision of services. Yes, I, President-in-Office, see it as important that Finland is not Italy, at least that we are able to carry out such a reform of health and social care within 10 years, as has been the case for a long time, to bring this reform to the port. It is a great risk, of course, that we will not be able to move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u19	Mr President! Of course, I respect the fact that Mr Ala-Nissila wants to believe that there will be good company and savings from the war. Unfortunately, the Committee on Finance, for example, in its own opinion, gave a crushing judgment in practice, also signed by the government parties, on the risk of these costs coming into play if that is what can be said. But, President-in-Office, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in his previous speech, Mr Heinäluoma well referred to this weekend's speech, which came from the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, and hence from the assembly, and which really gave a little hint in the direction of some uncertainty in the air. Like many here, I took an interest in the matter and followed the speculation and other things that were public about the matter. I also listened to the Prime Minister's Question Time, where he told me at a very slow pace that nothing was wrong and that even a nap was taken. But in practice, I myself would make the interpretation that it is hardly in this peaceful atmosphere behind the scenes, if I dare to guess. I would like to draw attention to the fact that when it was said here that the people of the United States in particular could open up this situation a little bit, that it would be necessary, I see exactly the same phenomenon here today as last week when we were discussing the criminal code to be amended for the sake of the wars. Here the opposition used more than 20 speeches only with opposition, and no government party wanted to answer these questions or take part in the debate. Now there is indeed a representative of the government parties and also a representative of the coalition, I hope you will be able to explain to us what question you are going to be asking on this day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u20	Madam President! As far as competition law is concerned, this is also linked to this procurement law, which will cause major problems both in occupational health care and in many other support services in this social welfare reform, because the 5% threshold for out-of-sales is to be reduced to almost all municipal occupational health care services, as are many others, since they cannot then be sold to that province, for example, or to those companies or others who then implement these concepts. I am therefore not surprised that outsourcing is currently taking place in relation to these buildings, because the confidence in the government that this whole social security system would in any way protect public property is such that it cannot be certain at the moment. That is probably why the big question is still floating in this Chamber, as today there is another new law that directly touches the reporting obligation of this public sector in a new way because of this regional and social reform: how do you believe, Minister, that these laws should still be brought here if this whole war does not necessarily go any further?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u21	Mr President! Indeed, this law is based on the assumption that the government's social welfare legislation will be adopted in Parliament and, as it were, with this proposal, the government anticipates this new situation and this freedom of choice legislation brought about by social welfare legislation. However, we now know that there are considerable uncertainties here, and I would prefer Parliament to be told what is going on with this major social reform. We know from the old days that when the meeting becomes a difficult place and there is confusion, the only one who will find out is Mrs Zyskowicz, and that is why I am delighted that she came to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u24	At this point, Mr Lindström's speech, please, is three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u25	Mr President! If we start with this rather confusing debate about why we should bring legislative proposals to Parliament in such a precarious situation: these are being brought here because, at least I believe, the war is going to go to the finish line. If we did not, then that would be a strange situation, we would doubt ourselves. That's where we start. First of all, if we start from this, which is why this amendment to the competition law has been brought here, this is based on the need for national change. It is based on the findings of the Competition and Consumer Protection Office on the need to improve and clarify competition control, as well as on the work of the National Competition Law Working Group. This is in the background. Well, these competition rules also have an EU background, and this amendment to the competition law also has to do with the EU legislation and the common recommendations of the Member States' regulations, and the law will be amended in two stages. This change now being presented is the first of these steps. In the second phase, the Competition Act will be amended on the basis of the Directive on the enforcement, independence and resources of national competition authorities. Well, this is still in the trilogue phase and it should be approved before August. Well, I guess that'll be more later. Key amendments: The inspections carried out by the Competition and Consumer Authority, including the so-called extended inspection of provisional copies by the Office, and the independence of the right of scrutiny as to where the information is stored, are set out in three articles. More effective exchange of information between the authorities: then we come to this question of the shadow economy, which Mr Kari asked about. I believe that the government is heading in the right direction, because from now on the KKK could provide information to more authorities and the right of the Competition and Consumer Authority to obtain information from other authorities will be clarified. In my opinion, this is a step in the right direction. In addition to this, the KKK is subject to an obligation management report from the Grey Financial Clearing House and tax information from the Tax Administration. I think these are very good things. Then there is a new provision on the obligation of separation of accounts in the provisions of the Competition Act, which, in my presentation, I have mentioned, according to which, in a competitive situation, a municipality, a joint municipal authority, a province, a state or an entity controlled by them must keep separate accounts for its economic activities. This provision also includes the possibility of a periodic penalty payment. This separation provision is the most relevant provision in the proposal. Let us continue the debate and then I will answer the questions as far as competition law is concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u26	All right, then, let's go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u27	Madam President! I have no reason to doubt that this is the right decision, let alone that there is something bad or negative about it, Mr Paatero, a representative of my great esteem, if the city of Kotka has made such a decision. As Congressman Pakkanen described: I respect municipal decisions and wise municipal decision-makers and city decision-makers, there is nothing strange about it. If a political actor, even now a city government, makes a decision after a long period of reflection, then I will always respect such a decision, it is a decision that has been made in a democratic system. And, as I said just now, Mr Paatero, who I very much appreciate, is an expert in a great many areas, and I certainly do not doubt that. He is excellent in this field and I have no further comment to make on it. Now that we live in a competitive environment in the world, so that services are provided, services are bought, the social and health care reform has the idea, after all, after all, that public authority is always responsible, all services are guaranteed. And then, even today, very many Finns make that private choice — a good thing if they do. So far, the situation has been that only those with the thickest purse have had almost free choice. If it is then extended to all Finns and supplemented with a service palette, what is wrong with it? If you get a doctor when your leg hurts or your head hurts,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u28	Mr President! The Minister there stated that he would take part in the debate in so far as it concerns this bill. This bill expressly states that the regional business body must separate the services of direct choice from the accounts, and in that respect this is linked to this. This is an absolutely essential part of the government's social welfare package, and while the implementation of this law still suggests that this will come into force in full on 1 January 2020, this bill, which the government has adopted, contains the assumption that real social welfare reform will come and take place in 2020. It has now become clear during this debate that Minister Lindström and the blue people are here, you can say, down to the knees, committed to this social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u34	Mr President! Of course, there may be such parliamentary groups in Parliament that no matter how much the law changes, the decision has been predestined, but I do not think it makes much sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u37	Mr President! This is the last part that we can agree with: just like that. The staff and organisation should be given the opportunity to see how reforms can be made that can bring better services and more savings in the long term. But now the problem with this government's social welfare reform is that instead of bringing in elements that can reduce these costs, this will increase costs, it will add to the one-off costs. This freedom of choice, which also includes this presentation on our table, this market model, will generate more costs and take away those tools to make our operations more efficient. And that is precisely why, if this proposal with its financial clippers goes forward, this will lead to historic major cuts in social services that are important to citizens. Mr President! I interpret Mr Eestilä's speech so that the Assembly is no longer entirely behind this social reform. Mr Zyskowicz, let me ask you once again: is that right, or shall we interpret silence as a sign of consent?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u38	Again on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u39	Madam President! The Social Democrats want to have a little talk here on the subject of social welfare, knowing all the time where it is going, but the political debate is within the Parliament, of course it is permissible and permissible, so that is all right. Mr President! First of all, Mr Viitanen said earlier that the Committee on Finance gave a crushing
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u42	Mr President! Congressman Rossi talked about these stories. Now, however, I must say that it is now quite essential to know whether the government is committed to this reform or not, which is also linked to this legislative proposal which we have before us and which goes on the old tracks, assuming that the reform is in force. When the centre and the blue have said yes, they are committed, it has not been heard from the mouth of the assembly. On the contrary, we have now heard Mr Eestilä clearly saying that this will be assessed when the outcome is known. That is not the kind of speech that the representatives of the government normally make here — I do not remember any such speech from this period. The question then arises as to whether we are discussing here in vain and whether this basis for the biggest government project has already failed, and whether we are spending time here in vain because this is not coming into force. And in this context, the question is quite relevant as to what the coalition will do, because they are the ones who decide this. And one answer has now been received from Mr Eestilä, who points to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u43	Next reply, Mr Guzenina, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u44	Mr President! I have now been here for the third time in Parliament and have never, ever heard such a black talk in white. The views of the experts are explained to be something quite different from what they are on paper, and even the authoritative opinion of the Committee on Finance is tried to speak of something other than what it is — it was crushing, Mr President. And now we are going to use the privatisation boom to frighten us if you do not accept this indecent social package of yours. You are intimidating with the privatisation boom — did you watch television, for example, where Aki Lindén, director of the Hospital District of HUS, said that this is total nonsense? There were also other experts who said that this was intimidation and complete nonsense. You do not trust that good work has been done in the municipalities. Are you aware of the way in which these services have been developed in municipalities, such as Eksote or Uusimaa?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u45	Then there was Mr Tolppanen, the reply for 1 minute, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u46	Mr President! Mr Hokkonen, you said that only the rich can get to the private and that the poor have to go to health centres. It's not exactly like this. But if this mess goes forward, do you know what will happen? If everyone gets to every place, it will be that the price of the individual will fall for you and me and the price of the health center will rise for you and me, because at some point they will meet each other. We can get good state aid to the future people through it. And if it happens that people do not go to that private side anymore, but go to a health center, which is certainly on call 24 hours a day, and it is reached, what happens on the market? The market-driven side withers, it leaves if there are not enough people to visit. This is how it's gonna happen. And how do you guarantee equality across the country? In what way do you guarantee that there will be a health centre or a public side in Muonio, or even three different public sides, when there is none at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u47	Then let's go to the list of speakers. Let's always have some debates, but let's go back to the list of speakers for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u48	Mr President! There has been extensive and, in itself, a great deal of talk about social and regional reform. It is still difficult to comment on the details of this bill itself at this stage, but I am sure that the details will be clarified during the expert consultation. Mr Paatero has raised an essential point of view here. It must be assessed how this new and increased regulation of the activities of municipalities and other public actors will affect the ability of municipalities and other public actors to organise services in a flexible manner, for example in catering services, laboratory services or other support services where their own activities and market operations are often carried out due to operational smoothness from the same units. This change now needs to be assessed in relation to the restrictions on activity already taken together, in particular the overly strict regulation of the procurement law by the government, which, in spite of opposition to the opposition, is much stricter than EU regulation, unfortunately, and also mirroring the very strict restrictions on public action brought about by the present Act on freedom of choice. If I have understood correctly, the EU does not impose a direct obligation now on these proposals in relation to this accounting separation, but perhaps the Minister can answer that. Mr President! After all, this package has already become a reality, and perhaps even more so with this proposal, the municipalities are already in a state of turmoil with the overly strict procurement law, and there is a fear that the restrictions on action that will be imposed by the wars will lead to increased bureaucracy and also to the dismantling of public support services, when this very complex and strict regulation makes it very difficult to produce these support services in particular. Now, in the context of this bill, it must be assessed that at least this administrative burden and bureaucracy will not be increased and that the functioning of municipalities and other public organisations will be made even more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u49	Mr President! The Government has brought to the table a change in the competition law which is very obviously related to the legislation on social protection under consideration. I find it problematic that the government is bringing in a number of different legislative proposals in the context of the social media proposal, which many experts have made serious criticisms of, among other things, the benefits to be gained. The competition law before us clearly increases the bureaucracy and administrative costs of public operators, including accounting. I was wondering, however, when the progress of social legislation is uncertain, in what way this legislation will increase the administrative bureaucracy of the municipalities, even if there is no such thing as social legislation at the end of the day. After all, in the government’s market model, child health clinic services are in danger, for example. Among other things, the Legal Affairs Committee will consider the future from the perspective of customer legal security. All these changes together are a very confusing whole, and I would hope that the government will better clarify its own view and give Parliament more time to deal with all these legislative proposals. Many experts have found that the government’s market model endangers public services. This massive opening-up of services to private producers and multinationals also poses a risk, for example, to public authorities being subject to liability if we were to change this model in the future. There are very many serious questions which, in this enormous rush and pressure on which the government parties are pushing for a debate, do not have time to deal with them in a high-quality manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u50	Madam President! Current legislation already allows public services to be transferred to market forces, and so many municipalities do. One of the objectives of the Sote reform is to strengthen public services so that they are competitive to these individuals and avoid this market-driven job. The question has also been asked whether there has been too much thought. At least I myself interpret that 14 years have already been considered in this Chamber and in this House in a number of different configurations, and in recent weeks the various committees have done a very thorough job, including the Committee on Budgets. There were also experts who saw that there was considerable potential for savings. Even those expert assessments must be appreciated and respected, at least I feel that way. It must always be remembered that the purpose of this whole reform is to reduce and control the rise in costs, and in that sense the news in today's press, which was about Eksote and the objective of an increase in costs of 0.9%, seems to me to be very ambitious. And why not have ambitious goals? In all regions and regions, ambitious objectives must be pursued — but the solution they had was that offices would be closed if these objectives were not met. Mr Eestilä spoke well. There are many other possibilities besides closing down sites: a way of doing things again and more effectively, restructuring. In all these matters, we should listen to the staff and remember these opportunities. The right thing here is to ask for the views of the other parties on this reform, but I think it would be just as legitimate to hear the opposition's alternative to it if this reform does not happen. At least I am committed to this, and I hope that, after some time in this Chamber, we will be able to vote on this, because good preparatory work is already being done in the provinces. At least I believe that work will produce fruit in the future, and I hope that work will not go to waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u51	Mr President! First of all, from the opinion of the Committee on Finance: well, it already represents something if the representative of the Government Party admits that it is very critical. In English, it is exactly the same as crushing in itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u54	Mr President! It bothers me in this whole debate that this is considered a threshold issue and the most important question is that everyone gets to private — as if there were no qualified and good doctors on our public side. There is. For example, we have a situation where we have the same doctor who may be in charge of orthopedics at the central hospital and may have a private practice. A urologist may also work at a health centre, but there is still a private practice. They're just the same people, the same educated people, special people. I find it extremely offensive to the medical profession how they are dealt with in Parliament. But then, when you say that everyone can make it, you can choose just that, does the blue door, the red door or the green door go that way, but what is the question then? It is then a question of price when it comes to freedom of choice. Then comes the question of the price, what to pay for the blue door, what to pay for the red door and what to pay for the yellow door. It pays the same to the customer, it is perfectly clear, but it is compensated for by state resources, i.e. tax resources. And since it has already been said that what is going to be controlled is not giving money to the province, not giving so much money, not giving so much tax dollars, then that means that those prices need to be raised there or that there needs to be a reduction in activities, either. This is the point where we want to go? The famous savings, let us take this once again: the Committee on Finance has indeed read a great deal of different papers and even heard about where they come from. In fact, the best point where the savings come from was the digitalisation of care for the elderly, because it provides savings, among other things — over 4 billion — so that during the morning shift, one basic nurse or a nearby nurse will be able to communicate digitally with 20 elderly people and during the evening shift he will be able to communicate digitally with 40 elderly people. I lack three years of this training and nursing training even more, but just like that, I can say good luck. Good luck getting 40 old people in six hours to come to the laptop or come to a computer at the other end, even though, first of all, you have to remember that you have to go there, and second of all, if you hear from the corner “Marjahei,non,come on,you’re having a conversation ” —what’s up? I mean, it's inconceivable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u55	Very good speeches, but we are a long way from this proposal, so I would ask you to concentrate on the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u56	Madam President! Competition law is very necessary when it comes to competitive markets and when companies in particular compete with each other, and I also understand it, even in the case of a municipal energy company which is in full competition with a competitive market. But I do not understand why this government wants many of the things that have so far not been in competition on the market to be transferred to a competitive market. That is why this social and health care service is not in line with the ideology of what I believe the Social Democrats want to see or what our constitution is based on, that the public authorities are responsible for ensuring that people receive these services. This is also happening with regard to employment services, where we want to think that a competitive market is the only way in which this legislation, which is now being presented, will be implemented. There has also been a debate here over the last few weeks about waste management, where people want to get out of the public sector, and about the seduction, where responsibility is also sought out from the public side. In other words, from the municipal side, this government has wanted to limit the scope for action: social welfare, employment management, seduction and waste management. On the state side, this model has been the same when it focuses on, for example, VR, which is now breaking up and wants to enter the market. Started with Metsähallitus, which was wanted to be market-based. My question now is, now that this competition law is the power that is taking this government forward, this market-basedisation: are the prisons that are coming next, as in the USA, or what is being put on the market?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u57	Mr President! I took the floor to speak on behalf of Mr Pakkanen when he spoke about that Eksote. The exote is indeed in a very cost-effective condition. But if you consider an illustration of Eksote, such as oranges and juice squeezed out of it, how long will that orange give off that juice? At some point the juice will stop coming, the shells will just be left and there will be no juice left, and in the case of Eksote this will be the big worry. This also affects the financing of growth services. When considering this opinion of the Committee on Finance, it is stated that this regional index, which is the basis of Article 6 of the draft financing law, is not the basis for the cost development of social welfare and health care, because it is hardly a factor that reflects the development of social welfare expenditure. And that should be our common will here in Parliament, not the issue of the division of the opposition-government party, that we genuinely secure a financial system that can secure social and health care services and these really important growth services, which will then also depend on this local life force, which will also be able to reduce social and health spending. So this is all about everything, and that is why it is very important that we look at this realistically. Now I wonder, like many others here, that the coalition left this place completely, that it no longer wants to take part in this debate. Is this the case, then, that the centre party is the only one who, on a realistic basis, is still looking at this issue and wants to have a debate? Let's take these expert hearings for real. Let us see how we can get a good presentation on this, but it requires that we look reality in the eye, genuinely reality in the eye, and we in this Parliament make an overall package with which we can truly live. Not that it involves some kind of cow trade. I'm sure this job needs to be done here for the benefit of people and not for the sake of the cow trade.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u58	Mr President! I think Mr Paatero has just made an excellent speech here, in which he comprehensively described the way in which this government is now putting Finland in order for Finland to be sold, and that is how it is going to be done. In other words, in a way, it is market-compatible, it is market-compatible employment services, it is market-based, it is waste management, it is the state side that was left the forest side, VR is being market-based. This summary by Mr Paatero from this point of view was a very good one, and that is why, Mr President, I am, at least, combining myself when I always think about these political squirms, the ideology of this market economy and all this very strongly in the coalition. It seems strange to me that, here today, the representatives of the centre party — the representatives of the centre, the honour to you — are very strongly in favour of this logic of market-basedisation. Here the Blue Minister is going to speak in favour of market-competence, and you are still in this position, with blue and centre, at least today in this Chamber. But, Minister, I hope that you will be able to describe when the coalition does not want to speak — the vote will be silent, the assembly will walk out of the Chamber when it is asked whether the coalition is committed — some kind of internal situation there within the government, what debates are now taking place on this war, because really, when you watch TV, you read the papers, you will listen to statements, you can see that this is not quite so simple within the government. I find it very strange that no clear picture can be given to Parliament of what is happening here, especially since this law is also linked to this whole package of social services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u59	Madam President! It has been very interesting to listen to this debate on this government proposal. There have been times when we were very close to this government proposal, and sometimes this debate has been very far from the content of the proposal itself. Several speakers have referred here to Eksote, South Karelia's social and health district, and to the news that has been reported in the press over the last few days. In fact, Eksote has been working there since 2010, very well. It has worked very well with care, and it has constantly improved its operations. It has worked very well financially, productively very well. The reason why it has now been in the media in recent days is, in fact, because the Eksote government and the Council have in due course made their own budget for this year very well and committed themselves to it and yet to it. For example, Eksote's management reported in March to the town of Lappeenranta that Eksote will last in that budget for this year, but two months from then on in May Eksote's management came to know that they will not last in it and that more than EUR 10 million will be needed. For this reason, I also think that this government proposal, which also improves the separate accounts for economic activities, is a good one and that the accounts are also monitored. I also hope from Eksote that within them they will take the measures they themselves believe they can improve this economic situation, and they themselves are committed to it, but it would be important not to have large throws of more than EUR 10 million in the municipal economy in a few or two months. In Eksote, too, customer fees have been kept at a very good level. They haven't been raised there. This has been a good thing, and the service network has also been kept at the right level, and in every municipality in South Karelia the service network has been available. I personally hope that this activity can also continue to be very much the same. If and when the social welfare reform is completed, in practice Eksote will become a business that will then operate under the authority of the province of South Karelia, and that will not change much. But for this government proposal itself: thank you to Minister Lindström for taking decisively forward those laws which are linked to the regional and social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u60	Mr President! This is a really necessary debate, because this law is linked to this regional and social reform, as has been demonstrated above, and there must, of course, be some idea of whether this whole reform is still alive and is being carried forward. If it is not alive, then we are talking about nothing here, and this should be returned, or this will lapse. And when this social reform is such a hugely impacted entity in many other aspects of this house, I would welcome a clear position from the government parties on this issue. Otherwise, Parliament's time and citizens' time will be used in vain. When Mr Zyskowicz left the Chamber and came back, I believe that he now has the final knowledge of what this position of the assembly is and we will find out in a moment. That is why it has become clear that the blues and the centre are really behind this reform and are taking it forward here, and I think the Prime Minister said that the changes required by the Constitutional Committee will be made. In my opinion, it was understandable and correct for the Prime Minister that the Constitutional Committee should be respected in this regard,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u63	Madam President! An interesting debate has taken place here, and I myself would like to express the hope that, when the Social Democrats very much wish for Mr Zyskowicz's reply, we could sometimes hear opposition Question Time to Mr Zyskowicz in this House. That might be interesting to hear. Well, maybe to lighten this up. This proposal by the government itself is important. This is indeed part of this social and regional reform, and I think it is important that this debate takes place today, but it is being pushed forward. At least the Centre Group is strongly committed to what the Prime Minister said in his Sunday interview lesson about the peaceful style that Prime Minister Sipilä has: the matter is being taken forward, and the committees are still dealing with it here in the House. This situation in Exote: Indeed, as has been said here, Eksote is in a good trim and in good condition, and now here, Mrs Torniainen, expertly explained also the reasons and problems with which we are currently wrestling. But that's what I'm As far as the situation is concerned, I think it is important to see in this social reform that the way in which we do something new makes it possible for such a well-tuned system to function better and does not go along with what was in the paper, that the first thing we do is close the offices or think about it. That's on this basis. But Mr Paatero — who has now left the Chamber — rightly explained how much has been privatised in his home town specifically for occupational health care, electricity companies have been sold and raised in the municipal economy in that way. They too have come to the conclusion that the private one is a good solution when the municipality runs out of money, the way it does things differently and is renewed. That is exactly what the Eagles have done. In the neighbouring city itself, we have not outsourced or privatised health care, but we want this regional reform and social welfare reform to move forward and thus secure public health services in our hometown and, therefore, in our home country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u64	Madam President! President Koivisto once said that if you are provoked, you should not provoke. But in this debate, when the social democrats have been so persistent and flattering, trying to challenge me in the debate and when I do not want to deepen Mr Viitanen's confusion, I decided to say a few words here, although I feel that the issue is only indirectly related to social and regional reform, but it does.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u67	Mr President! Indeed, I see that I was guilty of overstatements when I said that Mr Zyskowicz always gives straightforward answers. After that reply, I do not understand what the position of the assembly is. It seems to be both—that is to say, the coalition is both committed to this process of reform and not being taken forward when he says that the matter will then be assessed in order to achieve these objectives. I believe that Minister Orpo said that the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party cannot support this motion if the issues he has listed are not included. Well, when the government has a majority, then it is probably the case that the coalition is making a new assessment of the usefulness of this whole — obviously after the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is known. In other words, unfortunately, Mr Zyskowicz, I have to interpret your speech so that you are no longer taking this reform forward until you see the outcome of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You are not ready for what the Prime Minister said, that the changes required by the Constitutional Committee will be put into law. That was a clear position, I understand. But you want to assess whether you agree to bring these changes to the legislation required by the Constitutional Committee or not, and that is a hard statement in the reform, which is the biggest reform project of the government, which has been carried out for a very long time and in depth, with thousands of pages on the subject. And even today, the committees have been sitting on this issue. If this is the case that the Coalition Party is rethinking its own position, then it is a huge deal in terms of this reform and it is also undermining it now, Minister. Lindström's legislative implementing provisions and also some of the content, so it is quite desirable that the position of the Assembly should be quickly clarified as to what they will do. Otherwise, they're gonna work in vain and build something that doesn't have a foundation. So, at best, it is known that, apparently, by a majority of 101 Members, this is being taken forward, but if the assembly is not involved, then I assume that it is not even 101 anymore, but that we are in a situation where this is not moving forward. So, Mr Zyskowicz, I am in a situation where I interpret you as saying that the Coalition Party has no longer committed itself to the reform and is not committed to the transposition of the amendments required by the Constitutional Committee, but wants to assess its support for the reform as a whole, and that is big news for Finnish policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u68	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, you started by saying that you do not want to add to Mr Viitanen's confusion, but there are some aspects of the tragedy here, namely that I am even more surprised after this speech by Mr Zyskowicz, because I had the same picture as Mr Heinäluoma, who spoke earlier, that this answer was not such an answer that we could interpret the assembly as being, of course, taking this forward. No, it was both an answer: it is said that there is support, but at the same time it is not admitted that we are prepared to take the necessary changes forward, for example after the outcome of the Constitutional Committee. In other words, this interpretation, which Mrs Heinäluoma did, Mrs Zyskowicz, the Government Party and Minister, is now far from being correct. This is how we interpret it. This is, as has been said, the news of the day, after this speech, I would say that it is almost the big news of the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u69	Mr President! Clearly, there is a situation here that the Assembly is not so happy to discuss this issue this time, because the only representative in this Chamber is Mr Zyskowicz. But it is now a rather relevant question whether the government's social reform continues to support all the government parties. When that Minister, Mr Orpo, listened to Mr Eestilä and Mr Zyskowicz's speech on Saturday and now, after all, everyone will say that the situation will then be assessed as to whether the reform is still being supported, that is to say that the whole of this social project may have fallen off the ground. When there is also another highly experienced politician in the Chamber, Vice-President Pekkarinen, I would like to hope that he will be able to assess this situation in the light of his own experience: has there ever been such a situation before, that there would be such a big reform, which is being discussed by Parliament, and then, in the middle of the reform, the other leading government party would say that it will no longer know whether it will support the process of this reform, and will obviously re-evaluate it. Has this been the case in the long run, Mr Pekkarinen, when you have been in Parliament, ever before you? What do you think of the fact that not all government parties appear to have committed themselves to the Prime Minister's announcement that the legislative changes required by the Constitutional Committee will be made? That is why this problem is now becoming clear that not everyone is committed to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u70	Mr President! Of course, this is a very heavy process for Parliament, but it must be said that although unnecessary work is the worst punishment for man, in some ways this process has been useful because, as the debate has demonstrated here today, there seems to be no clear position on the part of the assembly any longer. It is important that these matters are also discussed in public. It seems very strongly that the blues and the centre are supporting this reform, that they want the positions of the Constitutional Committee, when they come out of it, also to have an impact on the way in which this proposal will be modified. Like Mr Heinäluoma, I would also like to ask Mr Pekkaris, a very distinguished parliamentarian, a former minister, sitting here in the front row: What is your point of view on this situation at the moment? Is this in accordance with Parliament's authority that, as it were, public access should be used to search for that information, or should we speak more honestly to one another here, and especially to you within the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u71	Mr President! I am listening with interest to the debate, but now I have to say at this point that the Vice-President is not a political person, I would stress. That is why, of course, I will not comment at all but to thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u72	Mr President! This modesty is now very much on the move in the Chamber. I did not ask Mr Pekkarinen's assessment of this social reform, but I asked your assessment of whether you have ever had a situation like this before during your long parliamentary career — which I think began in the 1970s — in which, in the middle of a major government reform project, the leading government party would have announced that it would no longer stand behind it, but would have assessed whether it would support the reform. Has this ever happened before? I venture to suspect that it is not the case that the government parties have committed themselves to their programme and have taken it forward. After a clear line from the Prime Minister that he says that the changes required by the Constitutional Committee will be made and the reform will be taken forward, that is a clear position. It is an understandable position and, of course, corresponds to what the government is committed to in its own work. But if the other government party says that the situation is being assessed, and then the chairman of the government party goes so far as to say that the parliamentary group of the coalition will not support it if the objectives it considers important are not being achieved with sufficient precision, then that is an announcement that this is on a suspended basis. I think it would be quite reasonable — and I believe that the Finnish Parliament can take it — for Mr Pekkarinen to tell us the memory of this history. That is a different matter, and I understand that he does not want to take a stand on this issue, and restraint may well be in order, but history can always be told without any compromise in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u73	Madam President! I do not have a political career anywhere near that of Mr Pekkarinen, Vice-President and Mrs Zyskowicz, but I started 87 years ago, and I must say that during that time I have not met a situation such as that requested or asked by Mr Heinäluoto. I do not know exactly what happened at the end of the last parliamentary term, when Mr Heinäluoma was the President, when the government parties voted against their own proposals and only Mr Sasi defended the government's line on whether this event was comparable to this. However, this is certainly an historic issue — whether it is unique, it is difficult to say — because a ball of this kind is thrown into the air and that ‘we are not committed to what we actually see’. Well, on the one hand, as a Parliament, we must respect the Constitutional Committee, give it full peace of work, and then, when it gives its opinion and makes certain changes there will be – and I am quite sure there will be more of them in such a large package – then they will have to be implemented, there will be no other option, or there will be no other, or there will be such tough demands that they will not be implemented either for technical reasons, for timetable reasons or for political reasons. This situation is now in the pipeline, but it may be seen within a week as to whether this will happen. You have to say to the whole thing: This is where Mr Ville Vähämäki in the Committee on Finance presented a fine triangle with regard to this reform. One is good services, on which we are all in agreement. The second is the objective of a reduction in the cost of 3 billion, which is now written here in the legislation with a budgetary limit, and it is certainly also very problematic from the point of view of the Constitution, but I do not interpret it any further. A third party is a wide-ranging freedom of choice, which is written on the request of the Assembly to this system. It is clear that all three, good services, large savings and wide-ranging freedom of choice, cannot be realised at the same time, and I understand that the President, the Minister of Finance, Orpo, took the view that, if not all of these things are done, the Coalition Party will consider what it is doing. Now, of course, we are in a situation where this period of reflection is beginning to be, and it would of course be interesting for the work of Parliament if we could have that interpretation today and not do unnecessary work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u74	Madam President! Yes, I think that this is quite a unique situation in Parliament over the years, because it is rare for such major reforms to be made here as they are now on the table and the whole rhetoric of reform to be changed by the leading party, the assembly. So Petteri Orpo gave the conditions for the implementation of the war: if the equation does not work, we have no reason for this support. This is the kind of headline that came in on Saturday. This is a very different message from what has been in the assembly so far, what has been in the government so far. That's just the way it is. So my interpretation is that the situation has never been like this before, that we are living here and now in this situation, that we have no idea what will happen next. All in all, Mr President, if the Orpo now says that if the objectives are not met, then there is no reason to support — so there is no reason to do so. And, as has just been said, it is so likely that the objectives set by the Assembly will not be fulfilled and the government's good intentions in general will sound good that at the same time some fine freedom of choice will come and costs will be saved and expenditure growth will be curbed. Quite a few expert opinions now strongly say that this will not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u79	Madam President! As this debate in the hall well shows, this is clearly just playing time and playing ball with this issue and interpreting each other’s words. I can imagine that if this debate in those committees is this way, it is no wonder that this issue has been prolonged and decision-making has become more difficult. Whether it is always a question of an expert hearing — everyone can at least look at themselves in the mirror, whether this type of debate is even appropriate if we are now asking for speeches here in turn, as I myself do now, for the sole reason that I am speaking is that I can judge whether this is a game of time, a lengthening of time or a theatrical task, as I am interpreting it myself. I appreciate your experienced policies. They throw a ball in the air and then we see if we can catch up like a juggler, and this kind of thing. I hope that there will be a more reflective and in-depth debate in the committees, both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and that we will take the matter forward, so that this matter can then be decided in this Chamber in due course and then taken forward. I understand that everyone in this Chamber wants to solve it, but the way it is solved is now a little open.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u85	Mr President! I asked for this speech precisely because I, too, would like to say now that this is a perfectly legitimate debate — a perfectly legitimate debate. This is actually one of the biggest reforms in the history of Finland, with an exceptionally high level of risk, uncertainty. Experts talk about cost increases, warn against inequality, many are afraid. Mr Karimäki spoke well here, among other things, who said that if we take this step now, then it might be difficult to come back and cancel. There are so fundamental and fundamental questions on the table if Parliament is not able or deemed appropriate to discuss this issue in this context, while we still have the strange political situation that the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, the finance minister of the leading government party, the chairman of the coalition, has clearly sent a message, at least between the lines, that the commitment of the coalition is no longer unambiguous. If you look at the tone of the debate on the part of the Assembly a few weeks back, it was quite different, and now we have seen these statements by certain representatives that this reform will no longer be supported. We are talking about 101 representatives, on whom the government is now dependent, not to mention the fact that one party may completely fail to give its support. After all, the situation has changed in a very fatal way. That is why it is actually very good that we are having this debate here today. But what is a pity really is that the government has come up with very few answers. I've noticed that the minister went away too. He could, of course, have spoken before he left about the government's perspective on these events this weekend and on these general sentiments around the wars.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u86	Madam Speaker! I think that the Minister has made the right decision, because this is the government's proposal to amend the competition law and we are here to discuss social issues and which party is most involved. I take this as an interpretation that the Minister's move out of the Chamber was quite right because we did not ask him the appropriate questions, for which he could then have used the answer. We're just talking about other things here. We're talking about what's the leading government party. As a centreman, at least, I think it is perfectly clear that if we have a Prime Minister and we are the largest parliamentary group, then we are also the leading government party. Of course, there is a difference of opinion about this, and I appreciate Mr Heinäluoma's view of how he evaluates, what is the leading party, but my view is that the centre party is the leading government party. We have very straight lines, and that is how we run the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u87	Mr President! Yes, this debate is relevant, and the Minister could well have stayed here and talked to us. As many have said here — and there is therefore no government-opposition limit — this regional war reform is a large entity with several separate legislative proposals and supplementary proposals, so it is perfectly justified that we should deal with it here so that we can see the whole of it. It cannot be that the representatives of the government parties are trying to limit the debate that is taking place here in this Chamber on very relevant aspects of this whole and then on the way forward for this reform here in Parliament — now that there are so many different issues that have been raised in public by experts. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I do not in any way want to imply what kind of statement it is coming from, despite the fact that there seems to be a massive leak. After reading about the public, it has been very regrettable because the Constitutional Committee needs its own time and must have its own peace of work so that it can become a genuine opinion that would also benefit the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and it will be as the Prime Minister has said that then those considerations will be taken into account when that law is finally in this Chamber. That goes in fact so that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs now deals with this matter, gives its own opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and then the report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health comes back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There are many more times when we have to spend time here in Parliament on this matter. And now the big question that Mr Heinäluoma, Mr Viitanen and many others have asked us: are there unnecessary work to be done here? Has this been the case that there is already more information within the government than we have a chance to know? When the cow trade that was made is now breaking out — and here I am not referring to the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but to other opinions that have already been prepared — what will happen then? This is an essential issue for democracy. We have a lot of other issues in Parliament that we should be able to deal with, and now the committees are working on overtime, at night, on Mondays, in extended hours, and we do not know whether it is useful or not. That, too, is what this debate is all about when it comes to asking what representatives of the government parties know that we do not know here in the opposition — and here we are looking at the assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u88	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 6/2018 vp, the decision will be taken at the sole reading on the termination of the agreement and then at the second reading on the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u89	Madam President! The purpose of the Government proposal before us is to obtain the consent of Parliament that Finland may terminate the tax agreement with Portugal in 1970. The termination shall be based on Article 30 of the Tax Agreement, which allows the Contracting State to terminate the Agreement on the diplomatic route by means of a notification made at least six months before the end of the calendar year. In such cases, the contract shall expire at the beginning of the year following the year of termination. It is envisaged that the current tax agreement will expire on 1 January 2019. Finland should therefore submit its notice of termination to Portugal by the end of June 2018. According to this bill, Finland will terminate the tax treaty, which will put an end to a certain tax exemption for more wealthy pensioners. I consider the government's proposal to be very well-founded and sound.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u90	Madam President! In this context, there have also been speeches in the public debate that this would be a strange procedure of envy. I would like to say that the line advocated by the Finnish Government on this issue is entirely logical. When we do not accept that there is such a tax haven, where companies are fleeing just to avoid taxes, why should we accept such a situation that some Finns who live in Portugal — in this case Portugal — can avoid income tax altogether? Why should we accept such a situation? In my opinion, it is quite clear that if we do not allow companies to escape tax havens, then we do not want individual citizens to accept a situation in which a Finnish who receives a pension from Finland, for example, can avoid taxing that pension entirely. He would not pay tax on it to Finland, but he would pay no tax on it to Portugal either. When this has been seen as an error and an attempt has been made to correct it by a new agreement, but the new agreement has not progressed in the Portuguese Parliament, I believe that this is a very consistent action by the Finnish Government, and that there is no need for any doubt about the inherited sin of Finnish envy or any other such thing. It is a logical and fair game. When you have income, you pay taxes for it somewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u91	Mr President! I have here, as chairman of the tax section, spoken on two occasions at first reading and quite thoroughly put forward this proposal. Everything Mr Zyskowicz has just come to agree with, and it is clear that there must be a way to remedy this problem. Now Finland has had to choose such a very exceptional solution, namely dismissal, but I hope that this solution will be reached before the end of the year, by the end of November, to bring into force this new negotiated tax agreement. The issue that has not yet been raised here in the debate, but which also has its own meaning, is that these pension contributions on which pensions are based have been deducted from Finnish taxation, and that also confirms that Finland should have the right to tax these pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u92	Partly for the sole, part of the second reading will be presented in order of 6. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, the decision will be taken on the basis of the report TyVM 5/2018 vp, on the basis of a single reading, on the amendments made to the Maritime Labour Convention in 2016 and then on the legislative proposals at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u93	Mr President! Just a little bit about this. As the President also said, this is therefore a maritime labour agreement concluded by the ILO, the International Labour Organisation, which was concluded at the time of 2006 and which has been reinstated in 2016. In fact, this agreement has laid down provisions on the working and living environment of crews and on the maintenance of food on board ships. In fact, this is a change in the flexibility procedure so that the health and safety authority can extend the maritime labour certificate for a maximum of five months. Often, in these situations, it is a case that a ship may be on the other side of the globe and should, as it were, be physically inspected and considered that conditions are in order, but that is not possible. This will bring flexibility to these procedures. In addition, this issue of working time in domestic affairs relates to those ships in domestic traffic which currently provide for a maximum amount of overtime. Many of these ships operate in a little way that modern working time legislation does not sit in them: they work in the pipeline and then they are back in the country, and it is funny that then, as it were, they rest on the boat when they could spend their time in the countries and organise their work a little more rationally. This would therefore address the maximum number of overtimes and, instead, limit the total working time. It would be much more appropriate if the work were to be done in the rotation system. The committee supports these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u94	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 6/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u95	Mr President! This may seem rather technical, but the reason behind this law is the good intention that we should step up our operations and streamline different structures, that is to say, this is the background to the combination of the Education Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund into one, the Employment Fund. In time, the social partners made a unanimous proposal that such a change in legislation should be introduced, and now we have it before us as a law. This does not bring about changes in the tasks of these funds directly or, for example, in benefits, but rather in this form of structural integration. The aim is, of course, to create a stronger and more efficient fund, which would then provide for the financing of earnings-related unemployment benefit and the implementation of adult education benefits. The idea is also that the activities of this fund could be of higher quality not only for personal customers but also for employers, but also for unemployment funds and community customers. This aims to improve the ability to respond to the changes that are taking place in our operating environment and, in fact, I hope that this will also result in more comprehensive consideration of the support systems for adult education. We are in a rather fragmented situation: we have a part to study with unemployment benefit, we have a part to study on our own, in the future a little more freely on our own, and then we have labour policy training, and then we have adult education, and then we have training with normal student support. Then we have those people who would like to be trained, but they are not really going to get into any system. I therefore hope that this package will be reviewed — and this is my personal comment on this whole. But the reason why I wanted to present this whole as chairman of the committee is because we made one minor change to this, which is in fact related to the fact that the cyclical buffer of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has been increased for the period 2017-19 to a maximum of 7.0 percentage points. Once the situation has improved, this proportion has been changed, and that change has been made by us in committee. At the time of drafting this law, it has been imagined that this figure is 7 percentage points, but at the moment it is 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u96	Mr President! This bill is particularly good in that it intervenes in matters that should be addressed, but there is one thing here that I think is very descriptive for the current government. It is a change in such nuances, both in the new paragraphs and in the old ones, and that is a single word. It is ‘can’. For example, Article 6 states in the initial text: ‘The person taking part in the training provided for in the law on vocational training and in the training Thisremains a desire for a change,which would be part of the‘adult training allowance’to be granted to So it must be considered, or, for every person, it must be considered separately whether to admit it or not. In addition, there is paragraph 2 here, among other things. It is good in itself if student aid has already been granted before, but it is said that ‘there may be a grant of a statutory state guarantee for a study grant’. This State guarantee is more than satisfied, which would be good for I think:‘Adult education aid Of course,there are then We need to give some support to our education and adult education, because we have so many young adults who lack any kind of education, and the cuts in education have been quite severe, and if people have been unemployed for a long time, then they simply do not have the money to go and train themselves on their own. It is the point where the state should come to help and stretch out its hand and support the individual in finding for himself the path, the way through which he could gain a profession and then continue to be employed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-29-ps-57.u97	Mr President! These can be said, of course, because the conditions under which that aid can be obtained must be fulfilled so that it is not a matter of a huge change in substance. But in this, Mr Tolppanen is quite right that we have people who do not receive the support they need to study through any system, and we should have such a complete system that people would rather be trained in a new profession than, for example, have to be unemployed because they do not have a certain share of the education they need in order to be able to find real and transparent employment in a market-based labour market.
