ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! This is a good and worthy proposal. One of the key projects of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government has been to strengthen digital services and support broadband construction in sparsely populated areas, and this is also necessary because of the fact that in sparsely populated areas network connections are often weaker and, however, when services are moving at an accelerating pace into digital and network communications are of paramount importance. This is, therefore, a case of a separate aid scheme in this period which has provided more than 20000 km of built fibre network. By the end of last year there have been 150 supported projects and less than EUR 56 million have been allocated to these fibre projects, but less than EUR 20 million of non-granted aid remains. This will facilitate and enable the projects already under way, the tight timetable for their implementation, and, on the other hand, the fact that new projects can be launched and used in full. Of course, there are sometimes worrying messages from rural areas that these networks are not being built there, even though they are being built and excavated. There should be some kind of obligation for operators, and then, on the other hand, I have been given the impression that the obligation of cooperation, which is also quite essential in these matters — that those who have the technology and the points of this system should make them available to others — does not really want to act in the way they are supposed to do in everyday life. It would be interesting to hear, for example, from the chairman of the committee or from the members of the committee who are present here, about this co-operation obligation, whether it has been raised, for example, in connection with the Committee on Transport and Tourism. But this is a great, important project. It is a good thing that rural areas can also rely on faster communication connections, and this is something that is worth taking up in all regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u3	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the law on aid for broadband construction in sparsely populated areas so that the deadline for submitting a payment application is abolished. This would allow the development of supported links and the payment of aid to them beyond 2019. This presentation is more than welcome to the countryside. The Broadband Support Act provides for State aid for broadband projects in sparsely populated areas. The aid scheme has built more than 20,000 km of fibre network, with 150 supported projects at the end of last year. Overall, almost EUR 56 million of aid has been granted and some EUR 19 million of non-granted aid remains. The high-speed broadband project was launched by a Government Resolution as early as 2008. The purpose of this project was to ensure, through state aid, the construction of high-speed broadband networks in areas where commercial operators would never build fixed broadband. The objective of the project was that by the end of 2015 more than 99 % of users would have access to 100 mega broadband connections within 2 km of their permanent residence or business location. This government target is still very late. There are gullible municipalities that trusted the pioneer work encouraged by the government’s proposal, and the construction of broadband networks started in several areas, including my home manager in Rääkkylä. In our municipality, despite the size of the municipality and the economic resources, it was seen necessary to ensure that our residents were able to communicate as part of basic infrastructure services. The additional motivation for building fixed broadband was also the possibility of digital services in social and health care and the development of e-services. We need to understand from the broadband network that it is basic infrastructure, like our roads. A fixed broadband network is vital in sparsely populated areas already in the interests of equality of citizens, and the construction of information networks should not be a task of the municipalities but of the state, as mentioned in the 2008 Resolution. The country’s government’s top project, digitalisation and the development of electronic services, without fixed broadband, is not always possible in sparsely populated areas, because even mobile phones do not always work there. Last winter’s cannon snow also brought special challenges for mobile phone coverage. Society must continue to contribute to broadband investment in sparsely populated areas and to the implementation of projects, including in order to ensure equality between citizens and regional equality in service levels. Madam President! It is therefore appropriate that the Government make changes to the current financial system to facilitate the financial responsibilities of municipalities and information network companies. Let us hope that this government proposal will shed further light on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u4	Madam President! This government proposal is very necessary because these broadband projects have now been carried out on a large scale over several parliamentary periods. Although at the time Vanhanen's second government put a large part of them in motion and the principle that everyone should have fibre connections in place, unfortunately, they have been quite bureaucratic in reality. The committee's explanatory statement also makes it clear that, when all the money should be spent by the end of next year, there will still be almost EUR 20 million of available money to build them. That is why I very much welcome the fact that strict timetables have been introduced here for the possibility of getting funding for a longer period of time, if only now, in the course of this year, the regions, the municipalities, the village communities are able to put their own projects inside. These have been very important, and the local, regional and local community's own activity may also have played an important role in their progress. Although I can say from my own constituency that one of the least populated regions in Finland, the Sámi municipality of Utsjoki, is the one in Lapland who has the best broadband connections at the moment. For my part, I believe that this will remove the need for concentration, which has been the guiding principle for quite a long time. The availability of a wide-ranging broadband network in Finland is crucial and important. The fact that Finland is also in the forefront of the development of 5G connections is very important. And if we look at other northern regions — of course Sweden has long since pulled broadband networks into its own regions — we would have a lot of technological know-how to deliver both of these connections, both wireless and fixed, to other areas such as the Nordic countries: North America and Canada, and so on. What I think is very important, however, is that these connections make it easier to bring public services to the home end of everyone. It may be that the present generation does not yet fully understand how the next generation can already use digital terminals in all its public services, but it creates, to a large extent, one part of the implementation of social and health services, how the home machine can get in touch with both the nurse and the doctor and the prescriptions updated. And it also creates a sense of security where, for example, there may be a smaller network of residents. And this is very important that we finally have the modern freeways, the telecommunications connections, to get to work properly. That is why this is a very good performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u5	Madam President! In fact, I asked for this speech because the two representatives of the government in their own speeches attach the utmost importance to the construction of cable connections in the country, broadband connections. However, I would like to point out how expensive it is to build broadband connections in relation to 4G, 5G networks, wireless connections which also allow remote work in sparsely populated areas, in rural areas, even in remote areas. Of course, it is good if these cables can be built and funded, but I would also remind you that it is not free of charge. And in order to provide people with high quality services, the broadband network and wireless connections need to be developed and technology created that contributes to an efficient and cost-effective communication system in Finland. Just hanging yourself on the cables in these things is not going to be saved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u6	Let's go on the list of speakers, Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u7	Madam President! That's a very good decision. [Laughter] It is very important that this issue should be addressed in the future, which was raised by Mr Kari there. It has already emerged from the committee's deliberations that we should, however, now also assess whether we are contributing to the creation of 5G, because it makes it possible, as well as cable, to do this distance work, that is to say, whether we are now sacrificing funds for futility in some way — certainly not because it is good that these sparsely populated areas should be given equal opportunities for citizens. But if there is a really long way to go, perhaps it would be worth considering at this point whether it would be of more immediate benefit to those regions that are difficult to reach if the 5G network and network were to be expanded. Which means it could be replaced faster. Now that this money has not been used and these investments have not been carried out, should we at some point consider that this is the area where the first mast will come from which 5G belongs to the blind area which is currently the case? Could be a look-see.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u8	Madam President! It is very important that broadband construction in sparsely populated areas and its support continues beyond 2019, if all these projects are brought in. However, when the unallocated money is still about twenty million or so, it is definitely worth spending. I do not believe that the 5G network is such a either-or-case, but both-and-a-case. It will take some time before we have the 5G masts all around, and I think that we must now move forward in order to ensure that the network is taken away from those areas, where we still have this basic infrastructure. We must remind you that in rural areas we need a good and comprehensive data network across Finland, because of business and agricultural activities, which are above all equal opportunities for people to live together. It's kind of the same when we're wondering if we have to be able to take roads across Finland. Just as it is infraa, so data infra is infraa, and in that sense the citizens must be there for equal opportunities. Of course it can be said that there have also been serious failures in these broadband projects: municipalities have been involved in cooperatives, where, for example, the financial calculations have started off on the wrong track, and there have been totally unrealistic pricing and similar. This has created such a certain shadow over these projects in some parts of Finland, and it has been a pity. Perhaps it would have been precisely in those situations that stronger instructions were needed from the Ministry’s direction, from the authorities. So this kind of incompetence has come to pass. There are some projects in which even the finances of municipalities have been compromised because of the fact that such exorbitant projects have been launched and wrong calculations have been made. It cannot be that tens of miles from the center of the church village it costs about a hundred dollars to join a network when you know that at the same time a commercial operator in a similar area charges several hundred euros, if not up to a thousand euros, just like this, as a base price and then see how many are joining a fiber optic cable, for example, and then see what that final price is. So there have been a lot of such incompetent projects in different parts of Finland, and it has then perhaps cast its own shadow on the construction of broadband connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u9	Madam President! Functional communication connections, both fixed and wireless, are extremely important, and they must be in operation and operate throughout Finland and be available to all Finns. Different municipalities throughout Finland are in very different situations at the moment, and I can say that in my own province of South Karelia, for example, different municipalities are in a different situation. During this term of government, the government has made several proposals that have moved forward, and it has been decided that broadband projects could be built more easily and quickly throughout Finland, and this is also one of them. It is proposed that the deadline for the payment application for a broadband project be abolished, which will facilitate the tight implementation schedule for ongoing projects and help to launch new projects. These tight timetables have emerged in several projects, and this is how we can use them, I believe, for the remaining EUR 20 million in favour of a number of projects. All in all, services are becoming increasingly electronic, both public services and many other services, and that is why there must be well-functioning connections everywhere, and the fact is that, with fixed broadband, they are more secure. Here, some speakers have already spoken about 5G and 4G — the fact is that, for example, 3G does not even work in every place at the moment. I myself live in an area where it breaks up very much and makes it difficult to pay bills, among other things. Personally, I can see that this government proposal is very good. This was also unanimous in the committee, and I would not put fixed or wireless links against each other. Here, too, the committee has noted that there is a clear need for the construction of both wireless and fixed networks in the future. That is a fact, and both are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u10	We are running out of time, but if anyone wants to make a possible reply here, they will now have the floor, because we will have to interrupt, leaving the following. — Mr Ruoho, Mr Alatalo, Mr Pakkanen, Mr Ala-Nissilä,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u11	Mr President! Mr Torniainen has already made a very excellent speech, so that we do not go against the broad lines and then against the G networks again. Indeed, the aim of the proposal is to make use of all the money earmarked for the broadband scheme before the end of the scheme. When these services are transferred to digital networks, it is also very important to build broadband in sparsely populated areas, even though the trend is urbanisation. It must not mean forgetting the countryside, on the contrary, but also developing its vitality. These broadband services contribute both to remote work and to accessing social services to homes, and in this context I will briefly raise the example of e-doctors. I support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u12	Madam President! Indeed, this broadband support law is important. The deadline for submitting a payment application would be abolished because there is still some unused money — less than twenty million, as I recall — and it is important that this aid scheme can be continued. Of course, this does not necessarily help those companies that have been in difficulty, this is for new applications. So much I would illustrate here, when the 5G was advertised — even in Oulu, 6G is already being developed — that when I drive 60,000 kilometres a year all over Finland, I can say that neither 3G nor 4G necessarily work in every place. In any case, even if it is the 5G system, it still requires the cable for the base station, and in that sense today, when streaming and other entertainment takes up a lot of space, capacity, we also need fiber optics, which then goes to the dislocation area. We cannot leave those people solely to the mobile services advertised by these operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u13	Congressman Pakkanen, reply. — — — — Please also assess whether you will leave the request to speak on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Yeah, this broadband money is extremely important, and I support this government proposal in the sense that there are still many areas in Finland in rural and sparsely populated areas where these connections do not work. This debate on 5G has been raised, but it is quite true that the 3G system in Finland is not yet reliable enough, and all of these, 5Gs, 3Gs, need this broadband. It is good to remember that it must be there for them to be safe. Business, agriculture, all, are such today that they already use this category of information technology, that just a mobile app on the phone may no longer be enough, that the call is not enough, but that the information must move. This payment has been on the table, but milking a cow in rural areas, among other things, today requires so much information technology that this is an excellent project, and it is good that there are still some of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u15	So I'll give the answers to Ala-Nissilä, Kopra, and does the plant want to?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u16	Mr President! Here the representatives of Pakkanen, Torniainen and Alatalo have already made good speeches in this regard. Whenever standards are dismantled or streamlined here in Parliament, I am delighted, and here too the question is that this appropriation can actually be used now. Perhaps one more aspect of this is that telework is constantly increasing, that one day or two a week can be teleworked at home, and as the mobility of the workforce, the matching of the workforce is now a particular problem, there is also a solution in this telework that people do not necessarily have to move expensively to live in a provincial centre, but can work telework part-time, and that makes it easier for people to live in everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u17	Madam President! This government proposal is good and worthy of support, and the committee was also unanimous in this regard. Some of the speeches here drew attention to the all-powerful goodness of this 5G network and to the fact that it would solve this difficult problem of optical cable and light fibre winding in sparsely populated areas, and it is now necessary to say to colleagues that this will not happen: 5G is not the solution to the transfer of scattered areas. The range of one 5G base station is within visual range, visual range, about one kilometer if there is forest on the way, talking about hundreds of metres, and if there are buildings or similar, the 5G network carries tens of meters. So in any case, we have to draw fiber optics for the masts that offer the 5G network, and therefore where we want it to be connected, there is no alternative but to draw good fiber optics.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-25-ps-56.u18	Mr President! Indeed, telecommunications connections are to the digital society as the railways were to the industrial society, and it is symbolic that in Sweden, which has been active in building optical cables throughout its country, it is precisely the so-called peripheral regions that have an exceptionally high employment rate. In Finland, investments have been more modest, and even the co-operation obligation mentioned by representative Heinonen has not been helpful, as local fibre co-operatives have been blocked by pricing. Finally, I would like to stress that fixed and wireless networks do not really exclude each other from the market, quite the contrary. As Mr Kopra has already said, the 5G network base stations need to be built in a dense way and they need optical fibre to make it possible to meet the 5G speed and latency requirements in any way.
