ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 2 May 2018, with the support of Anna Kontula Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, who has tabled an objection to the proposal for a statement of objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 4/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 2 May 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u4	Mr President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u5	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u6	Mr President! I have a motion for amendment to paragraph 2 of the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u7	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u8	Riitta Myller, supported by Satu Hassi, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1. Mr Immonen, supported by Mr Lehdo, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u9	First, we will vote against Mrs Myller's proposal against Mr Immonen's proposal and then against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u10	Mr President! I shall make a proposal in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u11	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u12	Mr President! I will make a proposal in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u13	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u14	Riitta Myller, supported by Satu Hassi, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1. Mr Immonen, supported by Mr Lehdo, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u15	First, we will vote against Mrs Myller's proposal against Mr Immonen's proposal and then against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u16	Mr President! I will make a proposal in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u17	Mr President! I would like to withdraw the proposal of objection 1. I support that motion in protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u18	With the support of Riitta Myller, Mr Immonen has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u19	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 4/2018 vp. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 3 May 2018. In the debate, Timo Heinonen, supported by Hanna Sarkkinen, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u20	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u21	President! My intention was to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u22	Enter on the record.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u23	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. A debate on the 9th and 10th issues of the order of business will also be allowed in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u24	Mr President! It's a crowd full of representatives! Firstly, with regard to this three-way audit, there is some background. After all, the audit activities are carried out by three representative auditors elected by Parliament and their selected audit firm, currently BDO Oy, as the responsible auditor, JHT Jarmo Salmon. The audit is carried out in accordance with a separate audit plan drawn up by Parliament, the Finnish Institute for Foreign Affairs and the National Audit Office. The audit focused on the administration of Parliament and these two agencies, accounting and financial statements from last year. Firstly, the administrative audit assessed the legality of the Agency’s management’s activities and decision-making, in particular from the economic point of view. The key areas were compliance with the central government budget law and regulation, the accounting regulations of the Parliament and the financial rules of the agencies, including the procurement law. Administrative control also includes monitoring the decisions of the management of the agencies and their implementation, control of compliance with the budget and evaluation of internal control and risk management. The administrative audit did not raise any particular comments in these areas. Secondly, the audit of the accounts and accounts examined the organisation of the accounts of Parliament and these two agencies, financial reporting and budgetary monitoring for the accuracy of the accounts and the functioning of internal control. The annual accounts and annual reports shall be drawn up in accordance with Chapter 8 of the budget regulation and the accounting rules of the Parliament or the financial rules of the Agency. In addition to the audit, financial management and accounting were audited during the financial year, including personnel expenditure, acquisitions and the implementation of the Parliament’s renovation project. The audits of the accounts and financial statements and activity reports of the Parliament, UPI and VTV did not raise any particular comments. One word, then, on these three points: The mission of the Institute for Foreign Policy is to produce international scientific research in the field of foreign policy for the needs of political decision-making and public debate. UPI's three key research programmes were the European Union, the EU's eastern neighbourhood and Russia and Global Security. UPI’s financing, totalling EUR 4.2 million, came from the state budget to 3.4 million and from other external sources to 800000. That amount of external financing grew by about ten per cent from the previous year. The number of man-years worked in UPI was 41, and the great thing was that UPI was able to move to new premises now towards the end of last year. Thus, as an auditor — although perhaps an amateur — it can be concluded that UPI and its leading experts have achieved a very well established and prestigious position on a very large scale. Traditionally, the tasks of the National Audit Office include auditing the financial statements of the State and its agencies, monitoring the legality of the accounts and assessing their effectiveness. In addition, VTV monitors and evaluates the implementation of central government fiscal policy and inspects election and party funding. The total expenditure of VTV last year was around EUR 15 million, with a small decrease from the previous year. The number of man-years worked remained the same as before, i.e. 142. Last year, VTV also moved to new, up-to-date premises and thus generated significant cost savings in rental costs. Last year, Parliament's expenditure amounted to EUR 125 million, or 5 million less than in the previous year. The operating expenditure of the Parliamentary Office was 51 million, which was approximately EUR 3 million below the budget. Last year, investment expenditure on the renovation of the Parliament House amounted to EUR 35 million and operational expenditure arising from the renovation was EUR 6 million. The total number of person-years worked by the Parliamentary Office was 539. Last year, some EUR 5 million was spent on the equipment and development projects of the much-speaked IT administration in this house, with an increase of EUR 3 million from the previous year. This increase is explained by the IT and AV procurements carried out in connection with the renovation of the Parliament House. The appropriations allocated to the budget of the Parliament were exceeded only in the case of assistance to parliamentary groups. Parliamentary expenditure per Finn last year was about EUR 23, including that renovation. As a general observation, it should also be noted that there has been a good level of compliance with the budget. There were no significant overshoots last year. For example, the cost of the Finnish Parliament’s 100th anniversary was 320,000, which is well below the budget. The audit drew attention to financial planning and also to the apparent upward pressure on costs in the coming years. It may be noted that this increase in human resources expenditure will be the subject of particular concern in the coming years. From the audit point of view, the renovation of the Parliament House was carried out in accordance with the budget and good administration. The total cost of the renovation investment over the ten years now amounted to EUR 252 million — the final financial statement of the renovation will be completed shortly, so the amount will be revised a little later. As a result of our audit, we noted, among other things, that the financial statements and annual reports of Parliament and these two agencies were prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions and provide accurate and adequate information on the results of their operations in 2017 and on their financial position on 31 December 2017. Mr President! In this context, on behalf of the auditors, I would like to thank Parliament's administration for its excellent cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u25	Madam President! The parliamentary audit report on the previous year, from 2017, tells us that last year the operating expenses of this house amounted to EUR 125 million, of which the operating expenses of the Parliamentary Office were 51 million, one million less than in 16, and the renovation of the Parliament House, our actual job and workshop, went to EUR 35 million and the arrangements that cost us the expense of being at the Sibelius Academy's premises in evasive spaces, amounted to EUR 6 million. There were 539 man-years in this house last year. Mr President! This audit report is a clean report. Parliament's auditors have done a very good job, and thank you all for that, and I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Mr Korho, who presented the report. It is always a good thing to hear — when this house is criticised for its use, sometimes very thoroughly and for good reasons, sometimes unwarranted — that it has remained well in the budget, even the 100th anniversary of Finland has been under budget. As a new Member of Parliament for the first period, I am very pleased that the renovation of this house and the arrangements relating to it have been very successful, at least from the point of view of the individual MP. J. S. Sirén's thoughts and spirit are well lived in this building, and this has been corrected with respect for the spirit. Mr President! To conclude, I would like to raise the issue of the internal life of this house — the administration and the economy — that this parliamentary assistant system is very important and that it is being developed and monitored as to whether parliamentary assistants are well paid and whether the conditions of their employment relationship are proper. Parliamentary assistants are very important to the work of our MPs and they do expert work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u26	Madam President! The audit report was well presented by the chairman, Mr Korhonen, and went over this whole extensively. Actually, I stayed listening to that and also listening to the person who spoke after him to reflect, among other things, on the recent book of Rosila, former head of the accounting office. When you read it, you get a little bit of a feeling that it's been quite a while, at least before. I welcome the fact that the President of the present Republic is President of the Republic. Niinistö began to put this spending of Parliament's money in a little place where it should be, and I personally hope that the good lessons of Niinistö will be followed, that once the common money has been put into our hands, they will have to be taken even better care of than their own money, and that is what President Niinistö did when he was President. It was nice to see and hear how the previous President, Mr Lohela, also received praise for this, how, for example, the arrangements for the centenary year were managed in a slightly different way than those for the slightly earlier celebrations in Parliament. President Lohela, current representative Lohela, deserves praise for that. I have also been particularly pleased that, during President Risiko's time, this line of justice and fairness seems to be continuing in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u27	Mr President! As regards expenditure, Parliament itself controls itself, and it is extremely important that this control system works. Auditors are an important part of this work. It is equally important that Parliament's expenditure development is kept under control and is important under conditions in which society is making extensive savings in other public tasks and also in social security, in services that extend to citizens. When, during previous parliamentary periods, Parliament has gone through its own personnel programme, it has led to a considerable improvement in the efficiency of its activities, and it has meant that it has been possible to achieve a result which has clearly reduced the number of people in the Parliamentary Office by almost one-fifth by changing, combining and developing the organisation and also by using technology. However, this development has now come to a halt, and that means that if no changes are made to Parliament's spending structure, if no further organisational reforms are carried out, there will be considerable additional pressure which will make it very difficult to manage the parliamentary expenditure development in the coming years. Attention should therefore be paid to the fact that the house must continue to live and develop in order to be able to act as a good legislator and to do its basic task but to do it with acceptable expenditure developments. The Parliamentary Audit Committee will look carefully at this report by the auditors and listen to the auditors and also the house staff in order to give an accurate picture of what has happened in the house last year and what conclusions should be drawn from the follow-up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u28	Madam Speaker! I am also a member of the Audit Committee, where these reports will be discussed in greater detail, and that is why I am happy to take part in this debate. Exact financial management and the correct use of funds are important, and this is particularly important for these institutions, so that they are particularly exemplary. With regard to the situation in Parliament, I am sure that in recent years the direction has been right and good, but what Mr Heinäluoma raised in view of the future is certainly also worth considering in this context. We know that Parliament, in particular, is also under a very strict pressure of publicity, and that is why we need to deal with this carefully. I would also like to give full support here to the current President, Risiko, in the management of this activity, and here we are all working together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u29	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Korhonen, for presenting the audit report. — — — — I can agree with what other Members have said in this regard. It was pointed out how much money has gone into the renovation of the Parliament House, millions of euros. Tomorrow we will have another day of open doors, when citizens will be able to see what has been achieved with their tax money and to admire this magnificent building. During the last autumn we had two different days, which were very popular, and I would like to think and wish that this kind of open door, which is going to be there again tomorrow, would still be open on other occasions that people would be able to look at and admire the house.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-04-ps-46.u30	Mr President! Of course, it is important that from time to time we also return to Parliament's own money and budget in this House, and of course I agree with what has been well put forward here, that we also need to be careful here that expenditure is kept under control and that action is appropriate. I would also like to point out here that it is important for the Audit Committee to deal with these matters carefully as it has always been, as Mrs Heinäluoma has just said in her capacity as chairman. I would also like to stress the point of view that, in these consultations, I think it is also important to raise the views of the staff, as was mentioned here. I think it is important because, nevertheless, the fact that the house is working well requires a well-motivated, good staff, and that is why it is always important to consult the staff. President! With regard to this previous speech: I too have often wondered, now that this renovation has been completed and I myself have had a few guest groups, how pleasant it has been for the public to get to know this house, and I am well aware of the need and desire and enthusiasm for people to come here, and that is why I also think it is important that these open doors can be held for me, even more often, so that the citizens can also get inside this house, inside the walls. How rewarding it is to be able to talk to people about this work, to tell us what we are doing here, what the rhythm of day is, what we are dealing with. It also strengthens the state of democracy, because many times over the years at least I have received feedback from the guest groups, that it was nice to see, we heard, we asked, we had answers to questions that were surprising many times when you were watching on television what was going on in that room. It is also very important for the strengthening of democracy that these open doors are in place and that guest groups are allowed in.
