ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs, to which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u2	Mr President, ärade talman! The reform of the Childcare Act is one of the most important projects in the government concerning children. Its aim is to improve the implementation of the best interests of the child in matters of custody and access rights. The Child Care Act of 1983 has lasted relatively well. However, since the adoption of the law, society and family forms have changed significantly. The number of marriages has decreased, while married couples and cohabiting couples differ more often. Families have also become more diverse. Parenthood roles have changed, both parents now actively participate in the child’s life since the birth of the child. The purpose of this proposal is to update the law to reflect the changes I have just mentioned in society. The proposal is wide-ranging and contains many proposals for amendments. One of the most important proposals is to clarify the provisions in order to highlight the responsibility of both guardians to foster close relationships with the child, i.e. the relationship between the child and both parents and other close relatives, such as grandparents. The law would also explicitly provide for the obligation of guardians to protect the child from violence. These reforms concern all families, not just the situation after the divorce. The current situation is reflected in the incorporation of the concept of rotation into the law. Another innovation would be to confirm the right of the child to meet a close person. Now the right of access can only be established between the child and the parent. The condition would be that the child and this close person had an established relationship comparable to the relationship between the child and the parent. The proposal also contains proposals aimed at streamlining procedures, speeding up the trial and, above all, strengthening the child's involvement. Efforts will be made to streamline the procedures so that parents can agree more and more on child custody and access rights at the social services instead of the courts. There has also been a lot of public debate about cases of serious problems in the exercise of the rights of access to the child due to alienation or other reasons. The proposal therefore contains a number of proposals to improve these situations by means of legislation. These include highlighting the importance of relationships with the child and taking this into account also in maintenance solutions, and the possibility of imposing a fine threat to the decision on rights of access. The preparatory work has been carried out at the Ministry of Justice in close interaction with various interest groups and also with ordinary citizens, organisations and parliamentary parties, in consultation with everyone's views, in full respect of the good way in which the law is prepared. I am therefore pleased to thank all those involved for the valuable views that have contributed to the completion of this good presentation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u3	There seems to be a need for a response here. Let's start with the debat for a while, Mr. Kiuru will start the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u4	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Häkkänen, for presenting the law. Indeed, this law dates back to the early 1980s and calls for reform. Society has changed, and society's values, attitudes, situations have changed. We have had a very serious problem here: in the event of divorce, access rights agreements are not always properly respected, there is custody bullying, alienation, manipulation, both of the authorities and of children. This law is now what has been expected. In fact, during the last parliamentary term a couple of legislative initiatives were taken in this regard, Juho Eerola made and I myself took the initiative, and now the matter was included in the Government Programme negotiations, and the Minister has taken the matter forward. I would also like to ask the Minister: what about this issue of alienation, whether it has yet to become a specific request, and whether it has now been sufficiently advanced to meet those expectations, as has been hoped?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u5	Madam President! Yes, the government must be grateful that this package of laws has been brought before Parliament. This debate has been long and extensive. As chairman of the men's section of the Advisory Committee on Gender Equality, these matters are very familiar to me: the lack of a fair and equal approach between parents, especially in the event of divorce, is this harassment of maintenance, it is a direct alienation, it is not the establishment of such a shift housing model, which would certainly belong to a civilised society, and so on. This clearly highlights the child’s starting point, the child’s interest and the child’s chances of meeting all close people, and it is great that it has also been extended. But just as Mr Kiuru asked, I would also ask the Minister how this alienation, even criminalised in some countries, has been dealt with in the same way as from the point of view of the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u6	Madam President! Of course, it would be important for us in society also to focus on keeping families together and not getting divorces, but in the event that we do, we will then need the means to deal with matters in an orderly manner. It is therefore important that these issues, which are raised in this legislation, are then put into practice in reality. This issue of alienation has already been raised in previous speeches. Of course, it is very bad for the parents of the child, above all, if it happens in either way, but there are extremely many messages also from grandparents who have experienced in these divorce situations that they have been excluded from the child’s sphere of life. I would have liked to be more specific from the Minister: have the other grandparents who do not live in the same household also been taken into account? Originally, during the drafting of the law, it was said that these rights of access would apply only to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u7	Mr President! This is the right step for the government to go in this direction, that all children should have the right to father and mother. In that sense, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that we have now made a huge step forward from the past years and from the governments. However, there is still a need to stress that, at some point at some point in time, this service bullying would be criminalised in such a way that no one would dare to do so, because yet tens of thousands of children suffer from parental separation and suffer from having to become pawns in some situation, that they should not see another parent. I believe that, now that this step has been taken, Parliament has shown its will by this majority in the fact that this is not acceptable in society. I hope that this message will also go to the local authorities everywhere to ensure that the social services do their best to prevent any children from being alienated from their other parent.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u8	Madam President! Indeed, sometimes you can even thank the government from the opposition, and now is the time for this to be a clear improvement on the existing situation. The government has often been criticised for the fact that equality policy has not been properly controlled by the government, but I personally see that this law is precisely an act of equality. This guarantees both the right of the father and the mother to the child and, in particular, the right of the child to both the mother and the father. In these divorce situations it has often been that fathers have been very unequal in relation to mothers in connection with custody disputes. On this matter I myself have taken legal initiatives and a lot of written questions, and it is great that they have been taken into account here, and in particular that this takes greater account of the role of grandparents — Mr Essayah just asked about them — and others close to them. And here's this shift living thing taken into account. There are a lot of good things. What I would like to see is a clearer definition and sanctioning of this alienation. Now a little penalty payment had already been put in there, but a more precise definition. Then, in particular, the training of the authorities to identify this alienation and to define the responsibilities of which authority is in what situation, which then
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u9	Madam President! This is a good step forward with regard to joint custody of children. For its part, this legislative package strengthens the shared custody already in place and creates clearer frameworks for the possibility of the child being with the other parent on a weekly basis and then with the other parent on a weekly basis. At the moment, however, the letter of the law has defined only one parent’s home as the child’s home, and it is important that grandparents, cousins, aunts, uncles and so forth should also be able to maintain relations with the child through the divorce of the parents, and this alienation has been mentioned. This law has taken a step in the right direction, but perhaps this should be further developed in such a way as to take account also of the fact that children are:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u10	Madam President! This is indeed a matter which has become the subject of a number of contacts during the past parliamentary years. These differences are always extremely burdensome processes. Unfortunately, the truth is quite often that that father’s right has been that weaker right since its resignation. It is therefore important that this legislation now tackles it and improves it. That separation process is heavy on that child, and it is heavy on both parents of course, and the fact that this alienation can now also be tackled and the means of not being able to do so in the future is extremely important. I think that Mr Kymäläinen also made a good point about how these different social benefits are divided in these divorce families, and I would actually ask the Minister whether there will be any changes to this in the future, whether this will be considered, and whether there may be anything to this effect in further preparation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u11	Madam President! Representatives Savola and In fact, the Kymäläinen raised this issue of the distribution of social aid in the different situations. I would also like to ask about this, and in addition to that, Mr Eerola raised and others raised this issue of alienation, so it is very good that these issues should be addressed, and this is a very welcome legislative package. I would have liked to draw attention and ask, in fact, Mr Essayah, about these grandparents. So it is very important that the child has the right to both father and mother, to parental meetings, but also to grandparents. This is in the text of the law, and the Minister also spoke of it, the right of access to persons with whom the child has a particularly close relationship. It may now be that grandparents, for example, have lived far away and the child is still small and at that stage it is not necessarily the kind of relationship that might arise, or it would still be important to maintain that relationship, and somehow I stayed to think about this “special relationship ”
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u12	Mr President! It is good that we are now enacting a law on child custody and access rights. This previous legislative package is over 30 years old. This has now clearly identified the situations in our society quite differently: the number of marriages has indeed decreased, but the number of divorces has also increased. It is indeed a good thing that the law now provides for an obligation to deal with the issue of parental responsibility and access rights in a timely manner and to hold a sitting without undue delay. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice whether there was any discussion here about the possibility that, in a way, there would also be incentives for amicable solutions and settlements before certain disputes were dealt with. Good also are these shift housing and then this is that it is right to meet a close person. Even as a child of divorce — parents have divorced more than 30 years ago — I know,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u13	Mr President! It is good that the law is being updated. The previous law is indeed old, and an update is certainly necessary. It is, however, a good thing to be quoted that the current legislation on parental responsibility and access rights also comes from the child's interest. The best interests of the child have been interpreted so far. It is wonderful that the Minister stressed in his own presentation the responsibility of both parents with regard to cases of violence. Both parents are responsible for reducing violence and preventing violence, and of this the Finnish women's organisations have wanted to point out that the law must clearly fulfil the obligations of the Istanbul Convention. Finland has been criticised, for example, by the CEDAW Committee on Women's Rights, for not being able to safeguard the safety of the child's parent, in this case the mother, or children, against violence in all disputes relating to the right of custody and access to the child, and this is a factor that should be taken into account, because these disputes, especially those that have been prolonged, often involve a serious risk of violence. The law must be able to protect women and children and fathers above all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u14	Madam President! Mr Talvitie, first of all, on behalf of the Minister, I could reply that it is this process of mediation of maintenance and meeting disputes that has been the most significant change in this area in Finland when, in accordance with the Norwegian model, we entered into such a Follo expert-assisted procedure. I have often been an assistant to those procedures, so that I know very well that it is a good and workable way and it has made a huge deal of these disputes actually settled. However, it is precisely now that these effective remedies are needed to comply with these decisions, and here the threat of a fine is, in my view, a welcome change. Today, however, the fine can and will be imposed by means of an enforcement action and in future it will be imposed directly. The question to the Minister is that do you think that this threat of a fine will significantly improve compliance, because it is already in use today? Then I would also like to ask whether these resources have been secured, because it is the speed of trial in the most controversial cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u15	Mr President! I, too, am glad that this reinforces the idea that both parents have responsibility for the child’s upbringing and care, including after the divorce. After all, the difference is a failure, and in that sense, of course, this parenthood is likely to occur much earlier in the past by the fact that both of them share its care fairly, and in that sense it will be very difficult to remedy such a situation in legal terms if it does not actually exist. It may be worth remembering in these cases that the legal system will never be able to correct what has not actually been done. I myself wanted to draw attention to the fact that this proposal might take even greater account of violence in the family and also when it does not directly target the child. It's really bad, and it's always bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u16	Mr President! This government proposal is very important and thanks for the fact that it has been raised. A child should also be entitled to both parents in the event of a divorce, but unfortunately everyday life is quite different. For example, the compensation of a distance parent receiving income support has been substantially reduced by the decision taken at the turn of the year. There has been no change in the law, but Kela has instructed officials to make such a policy by its own decision. Most of the time it is lonely men, men in difficult economic situations who, however, want to keep in touch with their children, and it has been made difficult by the authorities by their own policies. I would therefore ask the Minister and also the delegate of Kela to intervene in how it may be possible for decisions to be made in a decision by the authorities which have absolutely terrible consequences.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u17	Madam President! Indeed, there is a proposal in this debate that deserves praise from the government. There are a lot of good points here. Above all, I would like to highlight the extension of the right of access to other people close to the child. However, this is, above all, the best for the child, and I welcome the fact that, for example, the meeting of grandparents can now be included in these agreements in the future. The same applies, of course, to shift housing, which is an important step forward in the current legislation in force. In these cases of service bullying, it has often been prolonged court proceedings and repeated proceedings that have been the problem. I would have asked the Minister how, at the practical level of the courts, these new mechanisms will be able to speed up these proceedings and whether they will be able to do enough, because they have really extended the custody processes and, above all, caused the child suffering and prevented him from being with both parents and part of their lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u18	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that this law is now being reformed precisely in the interests of the child. Here more Members of Parliament have said that a child who is separated often loses contact with his grandparents, and the right of access to the other parent is not always fulfilled. I have two questions for the Minister, firstly concerning the distribution of costs and how they will then be distributed between the next parent and this so-called distant parent. In other words, it has already been mentioned here that it is a question of child benefit and housing allowance, but also of the cost of caring for and providing for the child in practice. In what way will this be taken into account by law and also by the fact that both parents can have very different levels of income? Then my second question relates to the situation of reconstituted families. So often a child born of that first marriage may be left in a rather bad situation in a stepfamily, so that you may experience little that you do not really belong to any family. Is there any line on this type of situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u19	Mr President! It is important that the law on child care and the law on rights of access now be reformed to strengthen the child’s interests. Joint custody and the possibility of living with both parents are now specified in the law. These important issues have been raised in a good way in this debate: violence, alienation. The child needs every close person around him, parents, grandparents, other close people, and it is important that the Legal Committee carefully examines whether effective legal remedies are now in place for alienation, that the best interests of the child should be taken into account. Now that we are celebrating Pride Week, I would like to ask the Minister whether this law is such that it takes equal account of all kinds of families and children living in all kinds of families.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u20	Mr President! It is a very good thing that the child's right is being promoted. There are many such cases that have been contacted where children are specifically used as a means of fighting in divorce disputes and custody issues. I think it is a very bad thing for children to be deprived of their right. I would have asked the minister one more thing: how is the right of grandparents to meet a child, if the mother has given her mother the right to look at her grandchildren, and then deny other grandparents the right to meet these children, so how does the law take account of such a situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u21	Mr President! As stated in the previous speech, it is unfortunate how many people use their own child as a means of revenge in different divorce situations. I myself have been involved in them a lot because of my work, and that is very sad to see. In fact, on the eve of this summer, I would like to say to all the listeners that now that the summer holiday season begins, always remember that your own child is the one who suffers the most. Apparently it is meant to harm others, but that own bitterness must be forgotten and put ahead of the child’s interests. In fact, I would have asked about this principle that it is the responsibility of both parents to protect the child from violence. I watched in the media a case where the father had abused young children and even the baby, and the mother regretted that the father had begun to inflict violence on children when she could no longer abuse the mother. How does the Minister respond that it is the responsibility of both of us: one to be punished, and that,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u22	Madam President! This is an excellent proposal, and it seems that the Sipilä Government is a real family government. This is the first Council of State in Finnish history, with a separate family minister named as well. And if I have understood correctly, not only the Ministry of Justice but also the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have been involved in this preparation and both ministries have gone hand in hand. There has also been an investment in maternity and child health clinics’ separation services that would never end up in situations where the court and child overseers must consider how to resolve the dispute. But I would like to ask the Minister of Justice about the mediation and amicable settlement of these disputes concerning the custody and meeting of the child. In my career as a lawyer, I've dealt with some of these cases, and they're a mess. I have to say that there is very little legalism in them, that is mainly psychology and social affairs. I myself have been involved in some of these so-called Follo mediations, and at least I myself have experienced them as sensible and good. How in the future, in the course of this law, reconciliation will be promoted so that it should:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u23	Madam President! This performance is absolutely good and welcome. In England, Prime Minister David Cameron once wanted a study to be carried out on what divorces are going to cost in England — £46 billion. This gave rise to a wide-ranging debate in society as to whether it would be more sensible to support families than to deal with these problems following divorce. I would therefore like to ask the point of view that what is the government's future idea of better support for families? Then this right of access: when parents live very far from each other after the separation, is there an increase in resources that social services will ensure that families with low income incomes, even though distances are long, receive special support for travel expenses if parents live far apart from each other, that this distance does not become an obstacle to meeting both parents?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u24	Mr President! This motion is going in the right direction. The purpose of this is to strengthen the right to meet people close to the child. It is up to us in this Parliament to legislate, to make laws that then justice will come true and, in particular, the right of the child will come true. I get a call from a grandparent all the time. Behind this family is a very difficult divorce, and his own daughter has later passed away. This father will then continue to avenge those old disputes so that he will not allow this grandparents to see the child at all. So this is no longer an established relationship, but surely this child would benefit from meeting his loving grandparents. In what way does this performance now pay attention to him?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u25	Mr President! This is a very good bill, and the Minister deserves to be commended for this. I, too, am particularly pleased that this bill also takes into account grandparents. I have talked to several grandparents who have been completely separated from grandchildren as a result of the divorce of their parents, even though they have had a very close and warm relationship until then. Adults in the midst of the crisis do not always remember how important the relationship between children and grandparents, cousins or other relatives can be for both parties, and of course the most important thing is for the child to think about. This bill now corrects this serious flaw.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u26	Mr President! Yes, praise must be given when there is a place to thank, and now is definitely a place to thank: thank you to the Minister for this bill. This is definitely a step forward from the point of view of children's rights, and I believe that this preparation has been exceptionally transparent and extensive. Thank you very much for that. Perhaps, when this whole idea here is to strengthen the right of the child to those people who are important to him or her in his own life, I would pay some attention to the same thing as Mr Karimäki. This law definitely and clearly improves the rights of the child, but I would still like to ask about this right of social parents. I understood that this working group, which had originally prepared this, had proposed the possibility of agreeing on a right of access for the child and the social parent, which, however, does not exist in this proposal. I would like to ask the Minister: what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u27	Irade the Talman! It is easy to agree with these laudable speeches and this bill in general. It is good to consider, for example, that a child can have many important people in his or her life. What we are doing here, however, is in a way a correction to a situation that may have already occurred. Of course, there are many reasons why we should end up in a breakup situation. It is of course important, therefore, that family services are available, that maternity and child health clinics identify problems. Another thing that is also relevant to this, and which is specifically related to the situation of separation, the way in which custody is defined, is the way in which parental roles are shared within the family. Based on the studies, the fact that the father has taken parental leave, that he has used his share of them, has a direct correlation with the likelihood that the father will receive custody of his children. In this context, this
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u28	I will give five more replies, and they are for the representatives of Sarkomaa, Sarkkinen, Tolppanen, Mäkipää and Hoskonen. Then the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u29	Mr President! Well, I've seen a grade for the Attorney General this summer, and I've got to say thank you. This is a huge leap towards improving children's rights and we are changing our legislation so that it recognises the needs of different families. We must modernise our legislation so that we see that families are different but equal. Even if the parents' relationship ends, parenting doesn't end. Parenthood must be supported. The regulations on shift housing are warmly welcome. There are many good points here. It has been well pointed out here that the social security reform, which we hope will be a major project for the next parliamentary term, must also look for ways, for example, to distribute social security in shift housing, such as child allowances, as is the case in Sweden. I think this is a good next step. Mr President! I say that many families have been waiting for this law. In many cases we representatives have been contacted, saying ‘Why not do nothing at the legislative level?’. For example, now this parental responsibility to see to it that the child’s relationships
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u30	Mr President! The reform of the law is very welcome when society has also changed around it. Thank you to the Minister for this excellent bill. At the heart of the law must be the best interests of the child, the right of the child to maintain a relationship with his or her neighbors and to be protected from violence, the right of the child to be heard. Priority is in the best interests of the child, but it is also important to strengthen the right of guardians, grandparents and other loved ones to maintain a relationship with the child. However, the best interests of the child must also prevail when deciding on access rights. Mr President! Recognition and facilitation of the shift housing model is very important, as it is already standard practice in many families. It is important that it is also recognised at the level of the law. When the law provides for shift housing, social support situations should also be taken into account, as has been pointed out here. Mr President! I would also like to thank you for making prior recognition of parenthood possible for open couples. Cohabiting couples should have the same status as married couples. Of course it's not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u31	Mr President! Maintenance payments are something that is currently the cost of the payer but the income of the beneficiary. It is not counted as deductible expenditure for the payer, but it is income for the person who receives it, and it affects, among other things, possible social benefits. So far, the payer has been the one whose address the child is not registered to. Now that the child can legally be with either parent on a day-to-day basis, I would like to see an improvement in this matter, as well as the fact that, at the moment, child benefits only come to one address, even if the child is physically present at two addresses. This very often makes it quite impossible for the so - called childless parent to keep the child in his own home on an equal footing for financial reasons compared to being at the home of the parent,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u32	Mr President! I would also like to thank you for the good quality of this bill. It says here that the determination of the child’s official place of residence is, of course, an important issue. Social services are provided according to the parent's place of residence in accordance with the Population Information System. A provision is proposed in the Act that which of the homes is registered as the official residence of the child. My question is: what happens if parents cannot decide who has the official place of residence? As has been said here, when you live at one parent's house and then at the other's, the costs are borne by both of them, such as housing allowances, school arrangements and so on. But I would stress that it is also very problematic for a child when one parent does not want to be in touch and the child needs to be in contact, but of course it cannot be interfered with. I'd like to ask you that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u33	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that this law has been brought here in Parliament, and thank you to the Minister and to the officials of the ministry and, of course, to all the various institutions who have contributed to the preparation of this law and to bringing a good law here — thank you for that. It is important that society takes a clear stand on the side of a small child and that the child should indeed have the right to meet both parents and grandparents. We all know it is traditional or, it is said, in a good old age, that there mother and father had great meaning and grandparents had just as great a meaning. Unfortunately, this connection has been broken in our society, and in a world of personal pleasures and various entertainments like this, the poor little child always tries to stay the last in line. Then situations arise where there may be six children of seven and do not know who their father is or who their mother is. This is why this law is very good in this context, however, and I would like and stress that every father and mother in their own world should think that when children are brought into the world, responsibility must always be borne for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u34	Then Minister Häkkänen from the scene, three minutes at the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u35	Mr President! Thank you very much for the questions and, of course, the thanks. I believe that the legislative drafting of this project already shows that, once it has been done with great care and thoroughness, our officials and I have spent a great deal of time on the whole project, precisely by meeting the representatives of the various organisations, both men and women, the actors of the various organisations, the individual citizens, the individual little unpleasant fates and stories of this — the idea has become clear that this must be extremely, extremely vigilant in all these changes. Perhaps from this big picture I am simply saying that we are now in a position to change the basic principles of child and family law in such a way that, once family law has previously left the decision of a certain person on the top of the family, even before, the man has decided, things have been taken year by year to the point of increasing equality between the couple and, in fact, the child has indisputable independent rights, even though he is in the custody of the parents of his family. In other words, we are now also taking this in a more sensible direction, by means of this law, that the child also has certain independent rights and, in particular, rights to parental and joint custody and, in particular, to other close people who have already had a special affection for them, and that can be better implemented if necessary by court rulings and the enforcement of periodic penalty payments in the future. But it is not as in the old family law model that someone else has exclusive rights to a child. In other words, grandparents do not have a fundamental right, only if a particularly close relationship has already been established and it is important for the child’s benefit. This is the core principle of child rights. Then there is the distribution of benefits, i.e. whether or not shift living can actually be carried out. We have already started a working group with Annika Saarikko on how in practice child benefits and others can be divided so that there are no practical problems in everyday life, how even though school transport behaves in shift housing or the distribution of certain benefits, because when the costs between ex-partners are supposed to be compensated voluntarily, it is usually not very easy. So we have this process going on. In particular, it calls for further work on child benefit and certain other services, but the work is under way. And in the final analysis, these practical details of everyday life are those that determine whether this will work. Taking into account the threat of violence is already under the obligation of the courts. Now this law adds to the obligation to take account of the threat of violence. In future, meetings can be organised under control or supported if there is a threat of violence, i.e. they have been added there. Well, social parent meeting: This is a question of strengthening the right of access to a person who is particularly close in the future. Ultimately, what is a particularly close person remains to be resolved on a case-by-case basis. We did not want it to be narrowed down here either, because a child may have particularly close people in different statuses. In other words, this also takes into account this issue of diverse families. Prevention [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u36	All right, and then let's go to the list of speakers. Congressman Kiuru Pauli will begin — please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u37	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Häkkänen for this government proposal, which has been expected, and also to thank the colleagues in the same context. Many colleagues have been active here, and I would like to mention just a few names: Juho Eerola and Kari Uotila from the left side, Kari Tolvanen from the assembly and many others. This work has been done for a long time. When I came here during the last parliamentary term, the ILA was the Fathers on the children's errand, and they wanted to have a conversation, and of course I accepted them. I knew there were many differences, but after hearing them, I was surprised by this number of differences. About half of the unions end in divorce, some thirty thousand a year, and in about 10 to 20 % of cases children are then faced with problematic situations where there are service bullying, alienation and so on, and when the legislation dates back to 83 or 84, it was no longer able to respond to those situations with sufficient efficiency. As the Minister said, all this legislation goes ahead in the best interests of the child. That's exactly how it's supposed to be. There are a wide range of problems with these differences. This alienation is one. The second is non-compliance with rights of access agreements, a different kind of time play, legal processes that want to play time and lengthen and then later use this alienation situation. These involve different aspects of maintenance bullying and are linked to manipulation that may be directed at the authorities. Even though they are educated, skillful manipulation and misleading and outright lying can give a very different picture of the situation from what it really is. And, of course, the most problematic and saddest of all are situations in which a child is manipulated so that he turns against one of his parents and then wants to deny the role of being close and being a parent. Of course, the law is gender-neutral, and that is how this should be interpreted. The fact is, of course, that in the event of divorce, perhaps men have, and have, been, rather more often than underprivileged. This law specifies the rights and obligations of guardians. It is, among other things, an obligation to announce their intention to move. The court has the right to decide that the child can or must take turns living with both parents. And, as Minister Häkkänen said here, these expenditure issues will be taken into account more closely in child support law, child supplements and school transport. The role of grandparents has been well mentioned in this many speeches, and indeed, as the Minister said, other particularly close people can also be taken into account. These are all human factors. In view of the fact that a child has been in the care of a grandparent for three years and then comes a divorce, and if there is an attempt to break up and break up a relationship with this close person altogether, it is very traumatic for the child, and this should not happen. This is a very good bill. It is a great thing that this unites government parties and opposition parties, I understand that. This government proposal also proves the importance of civic engagement. Fathers on children's business have done a lot of work here. In the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I still hope that this issue of alienation can be included on a point-by-point basis. In Brazil, for example, it is very well defined that it is there and that there are sanctions if they are to be imposed. With these words, I wish you a good committee reading and clarification on this issue of alienation, if possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u38	Madam President! This government proposal is good, but not so good that it cannot be improved yet. The proposal proposes to amend the law on parental responsibility and rights of access. The proposal is very important and timely, and I myself expected it for over 35 years. This is very complementary to previous laws, especially from the point of view of the child. In society, parenting roles have changed. Today it is common for both parents to participate actively and equally in the child’s life even after a divorce. This must also be reflected in legislation. Visiting from one parent is still commonplace for many children. In it, one parent tries to influence the interaction between the child and the other parent by, for example, preventing the child from meeting his or her own father or mother. One of the typical ways of visiting is to smear, deny or control meetings with a parent. At the same time, the visitor tries to manipulate the child and gives him the wrong impression of the other parent. Visiting can also extend to grandparents and other relatives. This is in the best interest of a child? I think it is mental violence that should be punishable. It should also be more visible in this government proposal. With alienation, the child learns that family members and other people in general do not need to be treated with respect and compassion, but can and may be barked and invalidated. This is what one of the parents has just taught him. After a contentious divorce, it is easy to seek revenge at the expense of one’s own child. In addition, the visitor can also be a grandparent or another close person who is widely involved in the child’s life. This is even more difficult to address. Today, the divorce of parents affects some 30,000 children each year. Of these, approximately 2,000 cases per year are dealt with as maintenance disputes by courts of first instance. Many people are concerned about who gets a family dog to support and care for, but at the same time, the child is alienated from another parent. I think that animal and human rights are far apart, even though dogs are important in the family — at least for me. The objectives of the Government’s proposal are excellent, i.e. the main objective is to improve the child’s best interests in matters of parental responsibility and rights of access. The aim is also to update the Childcare Act to reflect changes in society and the case law. In addition, the proposal aims to strengthen the involvement of the child in the handling of matters relating to him or her and to enhance the judicial processing of matters relating to the custody of the child and the right of access. These are absolutely forward-looking issues, especially from the point of view of the child and in the interests of the child. As mentioned in the motion, it is essential to safeguard the relationship between the child and his or her parents in the custody of the child. It is also important to ensure that close relationships are maintained in the event of divorce, such as grandparents, siblings and other loved ones. I believe that it is the grandparents' share that will remain too light in this proposal and that this should be strengthened. Grandparents should be mentioned separately in this law. I do not think it is enough to mention that guardians have an explicit obligation to foster relationships that are important to the child. The proposal proposes to provide for an obligation for the parent to notify the other parent in advance of its intention to change his/her place of residence if the change has an impact on the exercise of the child’s custody or right of access. I think this is an excellent proposal. At the same time, it could be ensured that the schoolchildren receive a school ride equally from both parents to school if both parents live in the same municipality and the child lives alternately with both parents. This has been done, among other things, in the municipality of Rääkkylä. I also think that the child benefit should be paid separately to both parents if the child lives with both parents. That would be the famous equality. The proposal also proposes a new regulation whereby, following the confirmation of paternity, a man would become the guardian of a child, along with the mother, directly under the law, if he had recognised paternity before the birth of the child. I think this is an excellent change. I've met very violent fathers and mothers in my life. However, they can be good parents, and their own children are dear to them, even when they themselves are in prison. They must also be guaranteed the opportunity to meet their own children. An important problem for a child is situations where one parent does not want to have any contact with his or her child or miss out on an established right of access. However, it is a good thing that the proposal does not become a so-called meeting obligation at the risk of a fine, because it would not necessarily be in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u39	Madam President! We're working on a government proposal to reform the Childcare Act. Thank you, Minister Häkkänen, for the thorough preparation of the bill and for the fact that the proposal has been made in the best interests of the child. This is also the way the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has been respected. The aim of the reform is to achieve the best interests of the child in matters of parental responsibility and rights of access. The Childcare Act is now updated to reflect changes in society and family life and to strengthen the child’s best interests in divorce and open divorce situations. The current Childcare Act dates back to 1983, after which several minor changes have been made to the law. However, the need for comprehensive reform has been quite obvious. Relationships between a child and his or her parents play a key role in the child’s balanced development and well-being. A safe and caring home is of invaluable importance to the child’s future. The Government proposal emphasises the duty of guardians to foster close relationships with the child, to contribute to the realisation of agreed rights of access and to protect the child from violence. The reform adds the possibility of agreeing on shift housing to the law. At present, in divorce situations, from a legal point of view, one parent is always a so-called distant parent. This has been perceived as unfair in situations where parents actually share custody of the child. However, from the point of view of the Population Information System, the address of either parent will continue to be registered as the official residence of the child. Under the current law, the right to visit a child can only be established between the child and his/her parent. Consequently, it has not been possible to strengthen the right of access between a child and a grandparent, for example, and there has been a clear lack of legislation in this regard. According to the presentation in our referral, it is the responsibility of the parents to maintain and strengthen all relationships that are important to the child, including the relationship with the grandparents. In addition to grandparents, the right of access between the child and other persons who are particularly close to him can be confirmed in the future. It is not necessary for a person to be a relative of a child. The best interests of the child shall always be taken into account when establishing the right of access. The reform of the Childcare Act will improve the child’s best interests when deciding on matters of custody and rights of access. In addition, the right of the child to have his or her voice heard and to participate in decision-making concerning him or her will be strengthened. Of course, when a child’s opinion is heard, account will always be taken of his age and level of development. The responsibility of both parents to care for the child’s vital and intimate relationships is stressed, which is a very good thing. One parent’s attempt to alienate a child from another parent or from another person important to the child is aimed at preventing by specific regulations. Under no circumstances should a child be used as an instrument for parental disagreements. It is in the best interests of the child to have the right to maintain and strengthen all relationships that are important to him. It is up to parents to support the child’s balanced development and growth. It is the role of the legislator to help families in this important educational work. There are different families, and so are custody situations. Legislation must be based on the fact that the best interests of the child are always and in all situations the starting point for decision-making. This bill deserves special thanks for bringing legislation in a worthy manner to reflect today's current reality. Furthermore, it is important that the committee's deliberations continue to reflect on these details and, in the future, in the context of the reform of social security in the next parliamentary term, we can then see the distribution of this social security in the event of resignation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u40	Mr President! This is a very important and good bill that has come in need. Society has changed, and family situations today are diverse, and it also poses different challenges in relation to custody of children. In this context, it is also essential that we also have clear articles in the law on how to do so in practice in order to avoid conflicts. Special attention should also be paid to speeding up proceedings in civil proceedings. At the moment, due to the disproportionately long waiting for the district court to decide on the dispute and the difficult situations in families, both for children and for parents, this is a clear improvement, as well as contact with grandparents and other relatives. It is a ghastly separation when dealing with a close person and suddenly he disappears from life. Belonging to the voice of a child is important in all situations and circumstances of our society, that we think about things from the perspective of the child and also in this law, so that when we think about the details, we think about them so that the best interests of the child must be taken into account, and also, when there are matters relating to rights of access and custody, that we always think about what is in the best interests of the child that it does not fall under the rights of the parents. Then I would like to raise this point about violence. The current Child Welfare Act does not contain any obligation to protect the child from violence. That is what this law now proposes to clarify by providing for the obligation of guardians to protect the child from all forms of physical and mental violence, mistreatment and abuse. This proposal implements the obligation under Article 19 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to take, inter alia, all appropriate legislative measures to protect the child from physical and mental violence when he is in the care of his or her parents, other legal guardians or anyone else. This is an important part of putting it here in the law. It concerns what violence a child experiences in a family, whether it is violence against him or against another family member. Violence is not only physical, but, in principle, parents must also protect against all other violence that a child is subjected to. For example, when it comes to digital tools, it is the responsibility of parents to protect the child. This is probably going to be a lot of details, and then the committees also think about what the limits are. Mr President! This draft law will be welcomed with joy and will be needed. The starting point is changes to the child’s care, which go specifically to the needs of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u41	Mr President! Indeed, this law is very necessary. At present, for children in Finland who are not entitled to another grandparents or to meet their cousins or anything else, this is a necessary law that is being done. I find it quite strange or rather worrying that we have such parents who use the child’s best interests as a weapon to the other spouse or others. That is why I would like to give you one example of what has happened in a situation where children are used as weapons against other grandparents. It is such a situation that the mother was unable to care for the children and the father took care of the children and went away for many months without the mother even visiting them, and when the father passed away, the mother then ordered her own mother to look after these children and prevented the father’s parents from meeting these children and even preventing cousins from meeting them. And when there was a discussion with social services about how to appeal against this, a legal appeal was made, and the only thing that came in court was that the father’s mother was allowed to watch one hour a week in a controlled state. Yes, it felt so terrible when I still knew those people, how caring they were about their grandchildren, and when the mother was like this, that she didn’t take care of it in any way. For many years now, father’s parents have been alienated from these grandchildren. At this point, I think we need some more clarification of the law. I myself have told the Minister what the situation has been, and I think it is good that these matters have been addressed and that this law is moving forward. But what I would like further clarification on is the right of grandparents to meet their grandchildren and to take care of them even more and to ensure that they are able to care for their grandchildren and that this is fair. And the social services would then be given the right to order this, so that they would be given this task.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u42	Mr President! Minister! The bill on child custody and access rights deals with important issues that contribute to the well-being of the child’s daily life and safeguard lasting relationships between children and parents. According to the statistics for 2016, approximately 40 per cent of Finnish marriages ended up in divorce. About half of the first marriages that ended had lasted less than ten years. The difference between parents also applies so much to children who are still in kindergarten or school. Their housing, distance travel and other everyday life must be decided upon in connection with the separation. Parents living in the midst of a divorce crisis cannot always do this in such a way that the child can maintain close relations with both parents, but that situations arise in which the child’s residence and access rights need to be settled in court. The consideration of the child’s housing and access rights must always be based on the child’s primary interest. In considering the best interests of the child, account must be taken of the child’s age and level of development and the child’s opinion must be listened to in decisions concerning him or her. The exercise of the child’s interest in custody and meeting shall be examined, inter alia, on the basis of Article 8 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that the child has the right to maintain his/her family relationship. Furthermore, Article 9 of the same agreement states that a separated child is entitled to regular meetings and contact with both parents. Mr President! A child must be able to live and live with both parents whenever possible for a lasting affection relationship. Many parents determine this by means of a model of shift living, the terms and conditions of which the draft law contains clarifications. That's good. Parents need clear rules on how to deal with everyday issues when it comes to working in shift housing and sharing costs fairly. The daily lives of many divorced parents are burdened by the lack of clarity about, for example, fair sharing of travel and transport costs, reporting information on the child or his/her affairs, or spending holidays. With joy, I can tell you that in my own hometown of Mikkeli, the situation of divorced families has been eased with regard to school transport since the city decided on free public transport for comprehensive school children under 17 years of age. In other words, every day of the year, children can travel free of charge in the city area by bus and bus as much as they want both school and leisure trips. I recommend a solution to other cities. Divorced families, as well as other families with children, have received a lot of commendation. Mr President! In practice, divorced parents are far from always able to make decisions in the best interests and needs of the child in a difficult life situation. Too many parents end up in a bitter custody dispute where they try to make it difficult or even completely impossible to meet another parent and child, or alienate a child from a parent living elsewhere. One parent may also object to meeting and interacting with the child and the parent living elsewhere or prolong the decision. At its worst, the child’s best interests are completely left aside and the child becomes the instrument of parental struggle. Thus, in order to prevent years of custody disputes, there is a clear need for a law governing meeting and custody in order to prevent the alienation and isolation of a child from its parent. The freedom of movement conferred by Article 9 of this draft law on the Court of Justice must be upheld. Mr President! I would also like to raise a completely new paragraph in the draft law, which provides for the right of a child to meet a person other than his or her parent. This new article is very welcome, since many grandparents in particular are concerned about losing contact with their grandchildren in the event of a divorce, and many grandparents are saddened by a lost relationship with their grandchildren. Grandparents have often before the divorce been very close to children, treated them, and regularly participated in their daily lives. Since the divorce, in the midst of an argument, parents have banned meetings and communication between children and grandparents. This is unacceptable. Although the legal clause cannot fully guarantee the continuation of the relationship between the child and the person close to him, it is clear to the parents of the child that breaking up the relationship between the child and the person close to him is wrong and that the right to visit is the right of the child. Here, too, the child’s own opinion is crucial, just as Minister Häkkänen said, whether the child wants a regular meeting or not. Mr President! The current law on child custody and access rights is a very good step in the right direction. It can make it easier for parents to cope with their day-to-day lives after a divorce by introducing clear regulations for shift housing or often controversial meetings. It would also be highly desirable for parents to receive more expert advice and support in the event of divorce in order to be able to make decisions in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u43	Madam President! This proposal now improves a lot of existing legislation. The reform of the Child Care Act will in particular improve the right of the child to secure the presence of both parents in his or her life even after the divorce has taken place. The reform of the Childcare Act is an important reform. The government proposal is largely in line with the goals of the Christian Democrats. The reform is a clear step forward in relation to the current situation, although it is progressing with relative caution. The Christian Democrats have been calling for improvements in legislation for a long time, including new ways of promoting better rights of access for the child. In order to ensure that the right of access is exercised, it is proposed, inter alia, that a penalty payment be imposed on a court decision under certain conditions. During the process, the Christian Democrats have stressed that legislation must primarily be based on the interests of the child, his right to both parents and close relationships, even in the event of separation. It is therefore important that legislation should be more effective in ensuring that rights of access are realised. The starting point must be the solidarity of parents with regard to transport and travel costs in all situations. If meetings between a child and a distance parent fail in practice, such as because of costs, the authorities should consult with the parents and seek to remove obstacles to such meetings by means of, for example, the appropriations for preventive income support or housing allowance or the possibilities for social holiday activities. In the view of the Christian Democrats, legislation should be more effective in promoting the hearing and participation of the child in matters relating to him or her. The majority of children still live together in the home with their parents. However, because of the separation of parents and changing family situations, the life circle of more and more children is vulnerable to conflict and to the breakdown of important relationships. In the event of changes in family forms and parenthood, the legislation must also be reformed in such a way that the experience of both the father and the mother takes place in the various stages of the child’s development. There are complex and difficult issues related to child custody and access rights and, for example, to shift living with both parents. The drafting of good legislation is challenging, and careful individual consideration is always needed in the application of the laws. It is a good thing that in cases of non-disputed matters, the legally binding decisions of parents can be agreed more widely by an agreement adopted by the Social Security Board. At present, in the event of a divorce, the right of access to a child can only be confirmed with his/her own parents. The bill proposes that, where necessary, the rights of access of a person particularly close to the child and of the child may be established in a legally binding manner. Such a close person may, for example, be a grandparent living in the same household as the child, a foster parent or a former spouse of the parent. The Christian Democrats feel that this is an important change to the present law. A key factor for the child is the creation and maintenance of safe and sustainable adult relationships. Often grandparents are part of a significant network of relationships in the child’s life. These relations must also be taken care of. The alienation usually concerns the whole family of the child’s second parent. For this reason, it is necessary to add to the law the explicit obligation of guardians to maintain important relationships with the child. More often in divorced families, you end up living in a day - to - day residence. However, child benefits and family benefits are paid only to one parent. According to the bill, it would continue to be recorded in the law as a possible arrangement for the child to live in turn with both parents. This information would be entered in the Population Information System, but the child would continue to have only one official residence. However, the proposed provisions on shift housing would not affect the determination of the services and benefits received by the child and the family. We consider this to be the weakness of the motion. Social services and benefits related to shift housing should also be reformed. I was pleased to note that the Minister has said here that a solution has already been sought together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to address this issue. Therefore, changes must be made to the basis for determining benefits and rights, and I believe that this would strengthen the parental commitment to child care and education on an equal basis. Visiting often refers to parental behaviour in a way that makes it difficult for a child to interact with a parent and possibly leads to its total loss. The motion suggests that alienation is viewed in a reprehensible way but not criminalised. However, a provision would be added to the law that a parent must avoid activities that may harm the relationship between the child and the other parent in his or her upbringing. The tendency to alienate a parent may be taken into account when deciding on access rights. The recent family policy programme of the Christian Democrats has stated that alienation and maintenance bullying should be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u44	Madam President! Once again, thank you, Minister. Thank you, too, for having a bearing on this background. For the Fathers' cause, I know that it has affected the work of many representatives: Mr Kiuru, Mr Uotila, who are all of us here on this matter? Many good things have been said about this government proposal. I am not going to repeat it, but I would like to point out from there the strong point, the core point, that this really improves the child’s right to both mother and father in the event of a divorce or a divorce. Both sexes must be entitled to both mother and father. That is certainly what this bill is doing here. In addition, many speakers have raised concerns about the role of grandparents and other close relatives. This bill, as I read, takes this very well into consideration. In addition, there will be a lot of other good things here that have been going on for years, including this shift housing and cetera. But then I will address a few misdemeanors when, just now, when there was this debate, a few things broke in my ear. It was said that in connection with custody disputes, Mr Tuppurainen, there are sometimes such cases of violence. Then the Istanbul Accord was discussed. These are serious issues and they should not be underestimated at all. However, when there is mention of acts of violence in connection with custody disputes, mention should also be made of such fictitious allegations of violence and incest, which also occur in connection with custody disputes. They are part of this alienation that many people have been talking about. So maybe we should file an incest claim on the other parent, a crime report. It takes many months, it may take years for a police investigation, and even if nothing is found, the child has already become alienated from the other parent. Similarly, these reports of violence, that we go to the social services and tell them that perhaps now a man is about to threaten violence: the fact that one party has experienced the fear of violence is left on the record, and it has always affected these custody decisions. In other words, when it comes to violence, which is a real and serious problem, we have to speak in the same context when this law is later made more precise, including such fake reports of violence, fake declarations of incest, which at worst destroy the rest of Dad's life. There might be suicides. Then the other one, which broke a little bit in my ear, even though not so bad, is this Follo mediation that was a little complimented here. It is true that the Follo conciliation has achieved good results, but these good results have only been achieved in those cases where both parties have been willing to settle their disputes and to agree on how the child will be in the future. [The President knocks ] Then... — Oh, there's a tap. If I come back to that toilet. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Madam President! Indeed, this Follo conciliation has been excellent. This model has come from Norway, and it has done a lot of good work, but it is only in those cases where both parties, both mother and father, have been prepared for mediation. This has indeed helped and has saved, among other things, the cost of court proceedings. But if one parent’s goal is to get a single parent to himself and remove the right to visit from the other side completely, then these Follo mediations have been of no help at all and have returned to that previous trial for years. After all, those trials have been just as empty for the party who wanted to guarantee the right of the child to both parents. In other words, there would be a need for much stricter legislation at this point, even though this government proposal is a step in the right direction. What I really wanted, as a few speakers have said, is this more precise definition of alienation to that very level of section. I'm here to compare it to persecution. Such a concept has been like persecution, which had not been banned and criminalised in the past, but which was now banned for less than ten years. It had not been defined in any way before and it was said that it is supposed to be difficult to define, but it was simply defined to a level and then it was found that now this kind of activity is persecution and it is now forbidden. In the same way this alienation could also be done. A detailed definition would be given of what kind of activities are alienation, and then a ban would be imposed, and this would be the case. It is good that there is a penalty payment of this kind and this way away, but let us say that it is not enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u45	Madam President! Some Finnish paragraph stated that ‘whatever is left behind,from the source’, and that each of us, as a Member of the European Parliament,is still working between you and us —whoeverever will be —and whoever will be. You may suddenly think that some important economic policy and EU policy decisions, reductions in entrepreneurship, kiuksia and others will remain in mind in some parliamentary term, but I dare, President, to argue that this proposal, which we are currently discussing, this new law on child custody and rights of access, will have the traces that remain of us in this period, because, as we know, this legislation is very old, it is from the beginning of the 1980s and it is from a period that no longer exists when society has much changed in many directions since then, and this is a law that is used and that affects very much the administration, the judiciary and, above all, the lives of many ordinary Finns. The importance of this bill in the daily lives of Finnish people: Last year 48419 agreements on the maintenance and meeting of a child were confirmed in Finnish social services, and last year, unfortunately, the district courts were forced to solve 3,200 cases concerning these children, and this describes how important and huge this is. It can be said that this is the law of our legal order and of our social system, that at the moment there is a basic regulation that will indeed be effective for a long time. I would also like to express my warmest thanks to the Government for the fact that the Sipilä Government has done this. After all, this was based on the government program record, which three years ago was indeed recorded in the government program when the Sipilä government set in motion. Of course, I would like to thank Mr Antti Häkkänen, Minister of Justice, who is presenting the matter, but I would also like to thank Mrs Annika Saarikko, Minister for Family and Basic Services here. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, together, could you say, hand in hand with the Ministry of Justice, has prepared this proposal, and if so, where we cannot afford any silos in the ministries and state administration, so that the Ministry of Justice and the courts live their own lives and run children in a certain way, and then social affairs live their own lives, but they must be reconciled. Where this current government proposal is, could you say, a bit of this kind of hard legislation, a hard package, so along with it has also been done by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, how, for example, the clinics could settle in the event of divorce and, above all, prevent a little of those divorces. Mr President! This new bill, like the old Maintenance and Meeting Act, is based on the fact that the most important thing is in the best interests of the child. The best interests of the child in this legislation are the primary principle that should be realised. It can also be said that this new legislative proposal will achieve gender equality considerably better than it did in the past. The truth, as has been said here in many speeches, is that unfortunately, fathers and men have been outnumbered in these discussions as to how these arrangements for children's housing and meetings are to be made, and you can say quite rightly, that even sexual discrimination has taken place in practical activities, but fortunately, society is also heading in the right direction, and this is going in the right direction. An important reform can also be seen as the fact that shift housing, a practice that has already been made quite a lot in practice in the old law, is enshrined in the law as an official term, a legal term, what this rotation is and what the rules of play are. For the first time in our legal order, I personally think it is very important to recognise that the child has very close relations with others other than the father and mother, those biological parents, and that relations with the grandparents — papa, mum, grandpa, amma, whatever the name is — are also very important. It can also be very traumatic and teary if, in the event of a divorce, the situation becomes that those grandparents are separated and then break up with them. A close person other than a grandparent may also be the person to whom the right of access can then be confirmed to the child. Certainly for us parliamentarians, one of the most important points of contact between citizens and voters is these disputes and disagreements and, could I say, even the tragedies associated with the custody of the child and the right to visit, and with such alienation phenomena which, in my opinion, Mr Eerola went through very well, and I very much agree with him on these issues. I myself have received feedback — could I say such feedback that they lift a piece of my throat — from grandparents who have told me about the situations when their own child has a marriage or a relationship ended in divorce and then they are no longer able to deal with those grandchildren. I would argue that the government and we parliamentarians are doing a very good job here, that we are actually getting this everyday problem right, and then I hope that the committees responsible will go through this exactly, that these rights of access for grandparents and other close relatives, other than guardians or parents, will actually be implemented in such a real way. Once again, for the second time in this speech, I would like to compliment my colleague, Mr Eerola, on that good speech. This phenomenon of alienation is quite true, and the way in which social action, the police and the judicial system are used, can be said to be an abuse of justice and an unscrupulous game of this kind. As a lawyer, I have come across these phenomena myself, and alienation is now taking place in this bill and it is also recognised as a phenomenon. There are coercive measures to prevent such bullying if parents cannot then meet their own child, and this is a good move in the right direction. Of course, the committee will have to consider whether this should be tightened up in any way. But, Mr President, when it comes to such tragic situations in human life,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u46	Mr President! It is very important that today, in the referral debate, we have this government proposal for a law amending the law on child custody and rights of access and some related laws. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen, and the officials of the Ministry of Justice for this preparation and for the good and interactive process in the preparation of legislation. This is also the background to the Government Programme Record which this overall package is now implementing. The aim and focus of the reform is to improve the best interests of the child and, of course, to update the legislation to reflect current family conditions. Most often, the child’s custody and visitation rights are agreed in an agreement confirmed by the Social Security Board, and for the past year, 48,419 of these contracts were concluded and some 3,200 cases were settled in district courts. If it is thought that each agreement affects at least three people directly, but often also dozens of people directly, indirectly up to several dozen people, it affects up to half a million and, on a larger scale, up to a million Finns. So it's not a small matter. This is a big issue, which also involves mental well-being and ensuring that children have access to a safe and confidential educational environment, the right to early childhood education and education, and the right to be involved in these matters, regardless of which parent the children live with. During this debate, there has been a great consensus from both sides of the Chamber and from all sides that this reform is necessary, and there has been a long-term need for updating the legislation. Legislation over 30 years old is all about. These were good speeches by colleagues, including Mrs Kulmala on the parent's right to parenting even in difficult situations, and Mr Laiho on the matter of taking different matters into account. Then I would also like to thank Mr Eerola for dealing with this issue of alienation, and I will leave it out of my speech, and then I would also like to thank Mr Kurvis for dealing with the importance of conciliation and preventive measures. But there are some things that I raise up, which are good and which are now better taken into account in this law: In this case, provision is proposed for the law to allow parents to agree or, in the event of a situation, the court to decide that the child lives alternately with both parents. Today, this is already being done as a wide-ranging right of access. But it has been considered unfair that one parent is, so to speak, only a meeting parent, even though the child or children live almost as much with both parents. Here, too, is the fact that shift housing would also be taken into account in the child support law and, in the case of shift housing, one of the parents might be obliged to pay maintenance, depending on the parent’s maintenance capacity. Then it is also important for the child to communicate with grandparents and other loved ones. The legislation would be revised so that the law would be more clearly reflected in the role of guardian to foster all relationships that are important to the child, such as relations with grandparents. A new provision is also proposed to strengthen the right of a child to meet a close person, such as a grandparent or another person especially close to him. Then there are also good things about this child’s participation: A number of provisions are proposed aimed at strengthening the right of the child to be heard and to take part in proceedings relating to him or her, including more precise provisions on the examination of the child’s opinion at the child supervisor’s office, the examination of the social welfare authority and the possibility for the judge to use an expert assistant in the hearing of the child. There will also be a few points to be clarified in this big package, and then we will consider them in the Committee on Legal Affairs under the chairmanship of Mr Tolvanen, and they will also need to be addressed. Of course, legislation cannot resolve all matters, but it creates the conditions and the framework for reaching an agreement — especially when it comes to children, when you go to court, as quickly and as quickly as possible. A personal experience to this end. Yes, my parents have been divorced more than 30 years ago and during the so - called old laws. I have instructed many people that the most important thing is precisely that mutual respect remains. And that is something that we cannot guarantee by law, but, of course, the fact that there are these different conciliation situations and also that children and families are guided to take account of different life situations is also a prerequisite for its legislation. The most important thing, however, is that parents are able to be adults and discuss in that context the issues that belong only to adult tables, and under no circumstances are children used as a pawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u47	Madam President! I would like to start with the same point that I made in my own debate that, although this legislation specifically starts with this child's custody and right of access, much more should be done in society today to prevent divorce from taking place, and it is particularly important when children are still in the infancy. Then, many times, could you say, just such pressures of haste and stress and perhaps of combining work and family may be those that parents are then driving apart? In some ways I think that such a good family policy and, for example, home assistance for the families of municipalities might be something that would prevent them, in quotes, so-called unnecessary differences, and then, of course, in the event that the divorce process has started, there will still be family counselling. I know, for example, that there is family counseling provided by the church, but it is extremely difficult to get there and the queues are long. In that sense, this aspect, if anything, should be used even more in society to promote the prevention of these divorces. But when the situation has come that divorce has taken place, then, of course, the most important thing is to leave it in the best interests of the child and to consider how to ensure that the child has that opportunity for both parents, both father and mother, and then, on the other hand, for other important close relationships the child has, to leave it in the best interests of the child. Indeed, as Mrs Talvitie said at the end of her speech, it is important that parents remain ‘adults’ in these situations so that the child is not made into any sort of instrument,the route of disintegration,perhaps,unsustainability or other,that a reasonable agreement can be reached on issues such as child reunions and custody. There are now an extremely large number of issues in this legislation which seek to address these very issues and, of course, these practical problems, for example, in this form of shift housing, will certainly still require not only the good will of the parents, but also a comprehensive examination of the social sectors, for example, in order to ensure that school rides and health care and the like will then be organised. This issue of alienation has also been raised here, and I hope that the committee will look very carefully at the fact that divorce may occur at a time when the child is still a baby and these so-called close relationships have not yet taken place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u48	Madam President! Many very good speeches have been made here about this very important proposal, and it is a good thing and thank you again for having come to the debate. There is no doubt that there is still room for further assessment and clarification in the committee's deliberations. In the future, the aim must certainly be to ensure that social benefits affect both parents. This must be addressed in the future. Many speakers have spoken about alienation. It must be eradicated in one way or another, not just so that alienation can be eradicated, but, at that very early stage, it should be brought up by the various actors in order to prevent it. In this respect, I would also like to think that this clarification of the definition should probably be raised in committee. We in the new KD programme have sanctioned this alienation, but, as I said earlier, not just to impose sanctions, but to take account of the possibility of alienation in health care, in educational institutions in such a way as to prevent it. In other words, not only in the social services, but also in health care providers, in schools, in day-care centres, in all those places where children and young people act or are present as parents, they should in a way be sensitive and raise this issue in such a way as to prevent it from occurring. Or, if there is any indication that it exists, it would be addressed at the earliest possible stage and with sufficient firmness. Then what I would like to see better reflected in this proposal is precisely grandparents, grandparents and access rights for them. I'm sure biological grandparents are especially close by now. I would like to point out here that many times when children are small in the family, between two, three, four years old and grandparents far away, there may have been no such close relationship. The role of grandparents often arises in cases like this when children are of school age, and those in grandma's, grandpa's visits come at that point more. So, in that sense, grandparents and their special position close — I would like to see it brought up. One more thing: the best interests of a child, of course, need to be in everything but also the right of a biological father. Today there are many families and various arrangements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u49	Mr President! It is about time — it is good that we are able to deal with this proposal. There are a lot of good things here, and I would like to thank Mr Eerola, who has already made a strong contribution in the Government Programme to this aspect of alienation. This law proposes to add provisions allowing parents to agree or the court to decide that the child may live alternately with both parents. Another innovation would be to confirm the right of the child to meet a person who is particularly close to him, and to this right of grandparents, Mr Tanus has already taken a stand. This appendix makes it clear that the position of grandparents will be strengthened, but how will it be done in everyday life? When we legislate, then in everyday life we see how justice is done and how this law serves grandparents and citizens. Let me give you an example here: One grandparent’s own daughter married a man who apparently had a severe personality disorder. Then there was a divorce. Her own daughter became depressed for many years, and it turned out that because her own daughter was depressed, her own daughter had no strength to ensure that her grandparents were also able to maintain a close and well - established relationship with their own grandchildren — even with more than one child. And then it has happened that this depression ended badly, the daughter has already left this life, and now the grandparents do not even know where these children are, she has no right to be informed. So another thing is that someone has the right to visit, and that you have the right to try to create a relationship by sending a Christmas card or playing. Of course, I understand that there are cases when there should be a security ban and others, but if this is a question of grandparents and grandchildren and grandchildren who would benefit from this close relationship — this would be in the best interests of the child — I think that I should now clarify this proposal further so that we add the right to information. I'm going to give my regards to this great-grandparent for this show. Let's see how justice is done for him and many other people. But I would like to see a clarification of this proposal now. I also understand, of course, that there will be new proposals later, but I would like the Committee on Legal Affairs to consider this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u50	Mr President! It's just a few minutes from where I'm sitting when those group meetings are going to be all over me. Very good speeches have been made here. Big ships turn slowly. Among other things, the reform of the paternity law, which was achieved in the last period, was a long process: the outdated paternity law, which, among other things, improved the rights of the biological father, was achieved. In this context, I would also like to thank the representatives, Mr Eerola, Mr Kiuru and others, who have been involved in this long process, that this is at this stage, as I have already said in the debate, and I also thanked the government for this. With regard to this alienation, I would like to say that I said at the time when the paternity law was discussed — the paternity law process started with the case of former hockey player Mikael Jämsänen, specifically the lack of legitimacy of the biological father, and after a long process the paternity law was reformed — that losing a child through a traffic accident, for example, is the worst thing that can actually happen. But man is such that time equalizes grief and helps him to forget. But when a child is lost and knows that that child exists but cannot be kept in contact, it must not be loved, it must not be cared for, it is even heavier, because time does not equalise that grief because you know that that child exists but has lost it forever. That is why I think it is very important that this issue of alienation should now proceed in some way, but certainly the Committee on Legal Affairs should be very careful to consider whether bolder steps can be taken. It's a preemptive job. As in the case of legislation in general, it is not because of fear of automatic arrest or prison sentences, but because it has become a moral obligation to comply with them. The criminalisation of alienation, for example, will then lead to the moral, preventive effect, and I believe that this is the most important objective it must pursue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u51	Mr President! It is great that we now have a law here that seems to enjoy a broad consensus and support from all sides of the hall. Perhaps from this government proposal I am raising one issue which, at least in my own circle, may have been the most difficult one, and that is precisely the inequality of parents, even if there is practically as much meeting with the child. In other words, so far and so far, it is as if it were a close parent and a distant parent, and this often leads to a situation where the rights of a distance parent are in practice quite much weaker and, unfortunately, has also led to situations in which the child suffers from that situation. In addition to many other matters, this inadequacies in this law are now being corrected. However, as many have said here, of course, it would be desirable not to rush into such challenges and disputes about who has the right to see and be with the child. But the reality is, of course, that many marriages or marriages in which a child is born, or relationships in which a child has entered, are not going to last, and in those situations we must have legislation that best guarantees the rights of the child, and it is in the best interests of the child that every situation is considered to be in the best interests of the child. In fact, about this alienation: I understand that the Committee on Legal Affairs has a challenging role to play here, whether we should try to define it more precisely. Surely, though, every parent in that situation, if such a sad divorce situation arises, thinks that he is acting in the best interests of his child, even if he does not do so in practice. That is why, in this bill, too, it is well documented that these custody issues also weigh whether the parent is actually able to weigh the child’s interests rather than his or her own, perhaps even conflicting, feelings. I therefore wish this bill a positive and good reading, including, of course, a thorough examination in the Committee on Legal Affairs. And I'm sure we'll get this law back here in the fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u52	Next up, Congressman Tanus. — This plenary session will be adjourned at exactly 2:00 p.m., but let us see if we can finish this or whether we can suspend this item. — But now Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u53	Madam President! Mr Multala made it very clear that most parents certainly think they are acting in the best interests of the child in that crisis situation, but many times afterwards, when discussing with the parents, many say that perhaps it could or should have been different. Representative Uotila made a good point here about the importance of fathers. Fathers are very important. I work mostly with women, and sometimes the heart is cold when you listen to how many women and mothers think they are all-powerful and like pushing fathers away. Fathers are very important. Even of these grandparents: many times in the family crisis process, in fact even at the time when a divorce is planned or considered or is in dispute, grandparents can play a very important role in bringing it security, intimacy and peace to the growing, developing child or young person. I would like this committee to draw attention to this proposal and raise the necessary resources to these family support centres, psychological services and other such services, i.e. to strengthen this aspect in society even before the family is in an extreme crisis before we are separated or perhaps separated. It would also be in the best interests of children to have sufficient access to the necessary support for both parents and parents in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u54	There is still time for one more speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u55	Madam President! Representative Uotila spoke well of alienation and lack of it at the legal level of this proposal. As you said, those sanctions are not the thing. In Brazil, for example, alienation is defined at legal level and is severely sanctioned. I think it is possible to give up to 10 years in prison in the case of alienation. It sounds really wild, and I can't see for myself that it's in anyone's best interest to go into this. But it would be good for it to be defined there, and a message must be sent out, because laws tell of the values of society and alienation is a phenomenon that needs to be sought to prevent society. And what is the means by which it is prevented and the means by which that message is sent? Legislation is the way. I urge, I hope, that the committee will still be able to look at the countries and examples in which this has succeeded in putting this into law. As Mr Eerola said, persecution in Finland has been successfully defined, so that it is probably not overwhelming to define alienation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u56	Cases 5 to 10 will proceed after oral Question Time. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u57	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u58	Mr President! The Earth Survey has a long and highly merited history, and best of all, The Earth Survey Institute has not been captured by its glorious history. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u59	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to carry out a number of amendments to the legal level of regulation related to the field of activity, tasks, organisation and other activities of the Land Survey Institute. The aim of the proposal is also to simplify the regulation of the Land Survey Institute. In general, the change would contribute to the operational efficiency of the Land Survey of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the management of tasks. For example, the service point network of the Land Survey Institute would not be regulated by the decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, as discussed above, but would be transferred to the competence of the functional management of the Land Survey Institute. Mr President! Over the last few years, the Land Survey has developed e-services and e-service solutions extensively. From a management point of view, this has meant that the organisation, processes and service activities have had to change as the operating environment changes. The utilisation of digitalisation requires a agile and adaptable organisation as well as a management system. The role of responsible management is emphasised and the Agency's legal base should support this model. The proposed law is not estimated to have direct human resources implications. Indirectly, of course, the reform may lead to a reduction in staffing requirements in order to improve the efficiency of the management of tasks. At the Land Survey, it has been possible to respond to a general reduction in staff needs through the retirement of the older age groups and through the use of the national area of activity. The draft law on the Land Survey is linked to the legislation on the integration of the Finnish Food Safety Agency and the Rural Development Agency. As far as regional coverage is concerned, the proposal raises questions which we will certainly have to address in depth in the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u60	Madam President! Here Mr Viljanen and Mr Pylväs have made a good point on some of the details of this government's proposal, which really need to be carefully examined in committee, and we need to assess whether we are actually going along with this whole in these small details too, when we are also moving from the level of ministerial regulation to the administrative decisions of the Director-General, including those concerning the network of service points. Why do I want to take this detail? In this way, it is a problem that, when performances are carried out, administrative duties at the Land Survey Offices, there are many tasks that can be performed anonymously from anywhere in Finland, but there are also many where local knowledge and, in part, permanent competence in the region are very important, because many times there are situations where the same process is carried out with the same property owners from year to year, when it would be particularly a matter of making local knowledge easier to find a solution. Well, it is a fact that, as a whole, this is an extremely good proposal, and I am sure that when expert consultations take place in committee in the autumn, these matters will then very well be clarified, and this will certainly be the case when the report is taken into account. And I hope that the members of the committee who are present will also put this behind their ears.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u61	Madam President! There are a lot of agencies and institutions in our country, and I am sure that there will be a lot of feedback from us in this House as well. One where a lot of criticism comes from is certainly the Rural Service. By contrast, the Land Survey Institute has been in perhaps the best situation for many years, and very positive feedback has come from the fact that it has been able to develop itself. Today the Land Survey provides services that are easily accessible, and this Ministry’s proposal even further supports the fact that in future these services will be even better served. The starting point here is that the Finnish Food Safety Agency and the Rural Authority are proposing a new agency, and then the IT service centre of the Land Survey is transferring to this new agency the tasks related to the provision of IT services by the new agency. It is precisely these IT services that have been the strong background of its expertise at the Land Survey Institute. In the previous speech, Mr Hakanen pointed out that it is probably good to continue to have local knowledge, and this will certainly be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u62	Madam President! Indeed, this bill and the government's proposal are based on Sipilä's government programme, and one important guiding principle was the dismantling of bureaucracy. Now that bureaucracy is being dismantled, it is reflected, among other things, in this government proposal. In recent years, the Land Survey has undergone major changes, including new tasks. After all, the Land Survey is already carrying out farm segmentation and legal proceedings and so on. Such matters are concentrated at a single office, where they naturally belong. It is a good thing, and in this context too, to highlight the service readiness of the Land Survey which they have had so far, and I believe that it will continue to be just as good, even better, from now on. I myself have a few experiences from my previous profession with the Land Survey when different facilities were shared. Now that this digitality has come through, for example, you can easily find a map of every man’s map on the website of the Land Survey, even if it is a map of his own summer cottage. There are almost any maps available, and these are freely accessible to citizens. This is an excellent thing that we no longer have to doubt. When there is a laptop or iPad, such as a small computer, the owner, then yes the map will be found under the time frame and appear even the limits. So we have also made tremendous progress in digitalisation, and now that the government's proposal is being viewed, the Land Survey can then decide on these locations by its own decisions. In this context, too, I very much hope that, when the committee deals with this matter and reports, it will also raise the issue of these offices in different parts of Finland. Of course, in the digital age, the network is probably getting a little thiner, but it is very important that these services are available in different parts of Finland. This is such a huge country that it is not enough for one big region, for example the province, to have only one branch. Hopefully there will still be a lot of them and the Land Survey will continue on a good line and provide services to citizens and up-to-date information. The development of these map services and the related tasks are very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u63	Mr President! As Mr Pylväs, Mr Hakanen, Mr Reijonen and Mr Hoskonen have already said, the background and possible effects of this proposal are indeed very clear in the autumn committee. As has been said before, the Earth Survey has developed its activities as the world changes, and I think it has succeeded in exploiting digitalisation in an excellent way. As I read the bill, I found that it has raised many of the decisions that have already been taken that affect the operation of the Land Survey. However, I am not sure whether the proposal has taken sufficient account, for example, of changes to private road legislation, through which the Land Survey will also contribute to the successful completion of road transport. I believe that the key requirement for the successful delivery of these supplies at reasonable costs is local knowledge and its use alongside digital tools. Mr President! I therefore believe in the expanding possibilities of using technology, but I do not believe that it will be able to replace local and regional knowledge. The network of service points will have a major impact on the preservation of this local and regional knowledge. For this reason, the network of service points is not a secondary issue; it is a key issue for accessibility, knowledge and the cost of delivery to customers. That is why the way in which decisions are made on the network of service points is of great importance to the work and results of the institution, and this is something that we must pay particular attention to in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u64	Madam President! Earlier in the spring, when we discussed the Food Safety Agency and the Rural Service and their integration, there was great concern about how the Agency’s IT services — many of which also had personal experience in this Chamber — will move forward in the future. In this connection, it was discussed that, with good digital services known to the Land Survey Institute, perhaps their transition to the same agency would also bring its culture of operation to this future agency. This must indeed be hoped that the well-known problems of the Rural Development Agency will not be the way in which this new agency will find itself. Here Mr Hoskonen has just raised the issue of map services, and these have gone in the right direction. In Estonia, similar map services have been taken even further in the sense that it is possible to determine, for example, ownership and to see mortgages and so on. In that sense, although we often imagine that we are quite Europe's leading digital world, Estonia, for example, is still a little bit ahead of us. It has been raised here as a matter of concern and for the committee to examine whether it is possible that the powers of the competent management of the Land Survey Institute would be the one that would in future decide on the locations of the network of service points. In my opinion, it is worth considering whether this is the case that the management that works is the one who makes decisions on this type of issue. During this period, it seems that there is not very good experience of so-called regionalisation in those regions. To some extent, I think that if this goes back to one person or a few people in charge, it may be that there is a little bit of the same game as there has been with the Agency, even though Fimea has, as it were, been at the wheel of the government. I am a little afraid that it will be easy for these regional offices to become very thin, and I am sure that we should look at this issue there in the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u65	Madam President! As Mr Essayah said earlier, we certainly need to think carefully — but, of course, digitality, digital decision-making and licensing processes are more transparent, i.e. they can be evaluated by the public. It is certainly easy to compare whether deliveries and decisions are consistent. So now all of this is also easier to evaluate than if it were not digital, so that at the same time this climate of openness is possible. The extent to which regional offices are closed down should be carefully considered just because, in fact, in the case of the private road law, these activities are being carried out by the Land Survey Institute. They did say in a committee hearing in connection with the preparation of this law that they have the resources and know-how to do this, but I am sure that we should seriously consider what will be the final solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u66	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u67	Madam President! The proposal concerns the National Board for the Price of Medicines (HILA), which is the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The proposal proposes two changes to the work of HILA: The first of these changes concerns the HILA expert group, from which HILA will request an opinion on certain applications for specific reimbursement of medicinal products and, if necessary, at other times. The expert group shall be set up by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Today, the composition of the expert group has been established that its members must be represented in the field of medicine, pharmacology, health care and health insurance. It is proposed that the expertise of the health sector should no longer be required. The aim is to allow the vacancy in the expert group to be used for the expertise deemed necessary when setting up the group. The need should be reinforced, for example, medical expertise, taking into account the increased number of medicinal products used in the treatment of rare diseases in recent years and in particular the fact that the HILA Secretariat has been a permanent health economics specialist since 2017, whose expertise and input have also been used by the expert group. Secondly, the proposal proposes that HILA should be able to refer to the Director the substitution of the biocidal product and the establishment of a reasonable wholesale price if the corresponding product has already been approved for substitution. The reason for this proposal is that these clear and uncontroversial issues do not require a broad margin of discretion and would be well suited to the decision of the Director. This change would reduce administrative work and could also contribute to the introduction of biosimilars and thus reduce reimbursement costs for medicines, as biosimilar products that are often cheaper than the original product would come under the reimbursement system more quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u68	Madam President! Certainly, as the minister here presented, this is more like the so-called rationalization of this price board composition. If that is the case, as the Minister said, that there is permanent medical expertise in the secretariat, then it is probably much more important in that sense that this knowledge of medicine is then particularly found there. There have been some media coverage of these cases of a very rare disease and the only medicine that can be found in it may be worth hundreds of thousands, if not a million. In that sense, it can be said that we will be faced with some ethical issues in the future when we have to ask ourselves whether we are going to take this type of medicine and whether it will be able to make a decisive contribution to improving the human situation. There are many difficult diseases that may have the potential to increase quality to a few years of life, yet there may not be any actual cure. It has to be said that if something is to be considered in the future in that board of medicines, perhaps this kind of ethical expertise and reflection around these things. This second point, in which this substitution of biosimilar products is linked to the fact that it could be done by management, is certainly precisely the kind of red tape and unnecessary administrative burden that can be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u69	Would the Minister like to comment? If not, the conversation is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u70	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 2/2018 vp. It is presented to us by Mr Lapintie, chairman of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u71	Madam Speaker! I present this report by the Constitutional Committee on the Government's report on the application of language legislation for 2017. By electoral period, i.e. every four years, the Government will report to Parliament on the application of language legislation and the implementation of linguistic rights. In addition to Finnish and Swedish, the report should cover at least the Sami language, the Romani language and the sign language. This report is presented for the first time as an independent document, which has previously been part of the Government's annual report. The 2017 report contains a number of specific themes, in particular the realisation of linguistic rights in social and health care services, and also the realisation of linguistic rights in state companies. In addition, challenges for the future have been raised, but also opportunities for the future, such as digitalisation and linguistic rights for integration. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Language Report gives a good and comprehensive picture of the status of national languages, in particular Finnish and Swedish. Overall, the report is a good implementation of the objective of raising awareness among decision-makers, public authorities and citizens of the language conditions of the different language groups. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also considered it important that, when the Government and the Ministry of Justice have prepared this language report, the various language groups and stakeholders have been consulted on the implementation of linguistic rights from their point of view and thus on the presentation of their own views. I would now like to mention three different aspects which emerged from the debate of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and which the committee decided in this comprehensive report to focus on: The first concerns sign language. The rights of those who use sign language are guaranteed in Article 17 of the Constitution, and in addition to the Sign Language Act, the main laws are the laws on education, social and health care and the law on interpretation services for disabled persons. Finnish sign language is used in Finland, but also Finnish Swedish sign language. This Finnish-Swedish sign language is a seriously endangered language, which means that there are few users and its services are also very difficult to reach for some users. The Ministry of Justice's report on the overall situation in the Finnish-Swedish sign language was completed in 2016, and the committee considers it important that attention be paid to the problems raised in these various reports. Special attention will be given to measures to revive this Finnish-Swedish sign language, such as the introduction of interpreting training, which is very important for users of this language, as I am sure everyone will be able to understand. Special attention has been given to the implementation of sign language services in social welfare and health care. The realisation of linguistic rights in social and health care services for those using sign language and the obligation of public authorities and other public administrations to promote the use of sign language in their own language and to obtain information in their own language are considered particularly important. The committee has already discussed this point of view and is now renewing this important point of view, that the linguistic rights of Finnish and Finnish-Swedish sign language should be ensured in the context of the reform of social welfare and health care, and in particular when this planning is implemented in practice. In previous opinions in 2014 and 2017, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already drawn attention to interpreting services, and these concerns are now being renewed and considered particularly problematic that, although these issues have been addressed in the past, the situation remains worrying. The availability and organisation of interpretation should therefore be closely monitored. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs again states that the shortcomings identified must also be addressed. Secondly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs wanted to raise the issue of the status of children. As regards children, the Language Report highlighted in particular the availability of Swedish-speaking youth psychiatry services, child protection and custody, and the right of the child to sign language. In the report on the Sign Language Act, the Constitutional Committee raised the point in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child that children belonging to a minority group or indigenous people should not be denied the right to enjoy their own culture and use their own language together with other members of the group. Similarly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the importance of learning the child's own language, not only in sign language. The committee considers appropriate learning materials and the continuation of language centres to be important examples. A particular problem arises in the case of vulnerable children, for example in the case of custody: the possibility of safeguarding their rights to their own language. The third problem is the re-emergence of the language climate. The committee is particularly concerned that, in the context of the previous report on languages, it was noted in 14 that the climate of the language climate is tough, and now this new report states that attitudes are still hardening towards the different language groups, and this is considered to be a very worrying development. For the Language Barometer 2016 survey and other studies received by the Ministry of Justice, the general language climate appears to have become tougher since 2014, when the previous language report was issued. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has adopted a resolution which draws attention to the protection of national minority languages. When dealing with the implementation of this Framework Convention in Finland, this Committee of Ministers has called on the Finnish authorities to take immediate action to alleviate prejudice and a tense climate, for example by stepping up efforts to combat all forms of intolerance, racism and xenophobia. These are very strong remarks from this international body, and it is worrying that the language report states that attitudes have not been relaxed, but rather tightened up. The Language Report estimates that people's awareness of Finnish language groups and linguistic rights also affects the language climate. This report sets out as one of the reasons for this strained climate that the diversity of Finnish language conditions is not known. That is why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs emphasises education and awareness-raising on languages and diversity of language conditions. It would also be important to improve the knowledge of the linguistic rights of the authorities, and an adequate pool of language skills is also considered important. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that there is nothing to comment on as such on this report and that such a statement can be accepted. But the committee considers it important that these concerns are followed up, which I raised in three points.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u72	Mr President! This report is now presented for the first time as an independent document, and it is very good because it is now clearly possible to raise matters to a completely different level and to deal with the different languages as diversely and fairly as possible. The language report highlighted the availability of Swedish-speaking youth psychiatry services in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, which has been problematic for a long time. The availability of mental health services in your mother tongue is naturally considered important, and, for example, the Federation of Mental Health has stated that it is important to receive care, rehabilitation and services in your mother tongue, especially on the psychiatric side. In psychiatry, words are an important part of that treatment and expression and expression of feelings, and the importance of language is particularly emphasised in those services. Fortunately, however, it seems that in HUS, including Espoo, which also organises mental health services for Kirkkonummi, things have turned out better and, above all, they are related to better recruitment of staff. This good summary by the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Annika Lapintie, also highlighted the problems of custody that arose from it. Of course, in the situation of vulnerable children, language is also particularly important. What came to light and became clear was that in Finland, children who were children's clients in child welfare are not recorded on the basis of language, which sounded rather unusual that we cannot see how many languages they have in custody. In my view, this would be a good thing for the municipalities to take into account and improve the situation with regard to it. Then, in social and health care services, it is important that people receive that service as much as possible in their native language or that interpreting is organised. Then I would like to bring up the elderly services. When older people are, for example, dementias, memory disorders, it is important that they become understood and that the staff who handle them have skills. And, of course, it is important for the future to take into account in the future the fact that in the provinces this issue is also addressed, particularly in terms of recruitment of staff and possibly the concentration of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u73	Madam President! Thank you, Congressman, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee. For Lapland, a very good introduction. This report on the implementation of the language legislation last year would of course have earned perhaps a better time, but it is of course great that this special report is now brought here for the first time since the great hall just like this in its own story. There were important things that had been raised here. I would also draw attention to this issue of health care, as Mr Laiho did above, especially in the case of the elderly. Certainly in the case of older people, especially if there is still a memory disorder or a similar problem, it is extremely important that the person is understood in his or her native language, and it is good that special attention has been paid to this. Similarly, this issue of digitalisation in today's society should also be considered as an opportunity. Of course, we talk a lot about the dangers of digital exclusion and about the fact that there may be people who are lagging behind, as it were, but if we consider the possibility for sign-language speakers to operate in their own mother tongue, this digitalisation can certainly promote and improve these opportunities, assuming, of course, that there will also be a necessary number of interpreting services. In some ways, this hardening of attitudes had been raised in this account. In some ways, you think that perhaps it has something to do with this kind of tightening up of all kinds of conversation and atmosphere and with the tightening up of the choice of words and the attitudes that pass through it. It is a real shame that it is also experienced just because a person speaks his own native language. Here, of course, thinks that our public service obligation Yle could do such a good job. At least it's been pretty fun for me every now and then to follow these Saami news, Oddasat. It must have made many of us familiar with these Sámi words and perhaps even the subjects and things, and in some way it is refreshing to see what is being discussed in these news. Sometimes I feel that those topics are much closer to that real life and perhaps especially those northern conditions than our Yle news. Of course, with regard to these hardenings, we must remember that there are countries in Europe too, such as Belgium, where I lived for several years, where in French, Flemish and partly German language regions there was quite a similar kind of pecking, if you could say so, so that it is not quite unique that we have this sort of pecking in Finland. But this hardening of attitudes for the sake of one’s own mother tongue does seem unfortunate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u74	In conclusion, just briefly, I would like to thank Mr Laiho and Mr Essayah for taking part in this debate and for addressing this language issue, the language report in general and the problems of language law. Finally, I think that Professor Pirjo Hiidenmaa, the chairman of the Advisory Board on Language Affairs, who we also listened to as an expert, crystallised these problems, particularly from the point of view of linguistic rights, in his closing speech, in which he said: ‘When linguistic rights are acquired, money and professional skills,the matter can be corrected by increasing resources and providing training. When rights depend on information, education can be provided. The most difficult to remedy are those situations where linguistic rights are not realised due to lack of attitudes and appreciation.” Then he made such a wish, to which I believe we can all agree. He hoped that we would not run into this again in this decade — it could actually be said that in the century. That is certainly a good point to put an end to this report in plenary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u75	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u76	Mr President! Again, therefore, this is the report of the Administrative Committee, in which we are once again dealing with foreign affairs and permit processes and residence permit practices, and with this government proposal and through this report we are implementing the EU directive on research, studies, work placements and volunteers on the basis of which they can then reside in Finland if they are staying for more than 90 days. As such, when the directive is being implemented and the deadline for this directive in May was, I think, a little late in life in Finland, but it is unlikely that it will be very bad. No greater political passions have now been associated with this motion so that it has been able to move forward in the Committee on Administration unanimously. But perhaps it is in order that a few points should now be raised on this issue. The first is that it is good to remember that when these different practices are then developed and new ones are laid down, on which basis the right of residence in Finland can be obtained, all of them, however, are subject to a requirement for this secure income, so that it can be ensured that this would not have quite such a negative effect that it would then, in a certain way, be able to bring in people who are not actually covered by this directive through the back door. Another observation is probably related to the fact that when this is about students, the numbers of students are also largely dependent on the way in which, for example, these new university tuition fees have an impact on the number of applicants. As has been seen from Sweden, it can be concluded that it will reduce the number of applicants to some extent. As far as traineeships are concerned, as I said, this is also a requirement for a secure income there. Then perhaps the second more important point is that, during this parliamentary term, there has been an exceptionally large number of amendments to this legislation in relation to these foreign affairs and, after all, the law on foreigners has been under such constant change. Of course, this also raises the question that it would be a little sensible in the future to consider how this overall reform of the legislation would then be carried out, whether it would be reasonable to separate matters relating to work-based residence permits from it on the humanitarian side and so on. We are now making separate legislation in such a way that this does not support the foreign law. Perhaps, lastly, as we have seen in Europe, it is good now to consider other ways to come to Europe than to use this asylum system, which has congested the whole system, which is now being discussed by the Heads of State and Government at that summit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u77	Madam President! At the last few metres, I woke up because this is really important. When this is, in a way, able to expand it, then it must be possible to monitor that their position, which comes here for internships, is linked to their not coming here to perhaps learn work and then to take away from here, so to speak, with brain theft, through their own knowledge acquired here as free labor, or that they would be used for longer periods of work under the name of an intern.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u78	Mr President! I apologise for prolonging the sitting, but the representative Mr Myllykoski raised an important issue in relation to this particular control. As far as traineeships are concerned, when the residence permit is being processed by Migri, Migri will then have to find out whether this employer is replacing the permanent workforce, for example, because this should not be the case. If that were the case, then there would be a negative decision. But everyone understands that when this sort of settlement then comes, then the Migrill instruments are now quite small to go digging it up, what it's really meant to be, so that yes this premonition is quite superficial, and then of course the importance of this post-monitoring is emphasised. As we know, the resources available in Finland for this different kind of post-monitoring, for example in the context of health and safety at work, are quite small and quite overloaded, so that in the future, even when these permit processes are considered, we must also consider how this post-monitoring can be better organised and managed in order to ensure that everyone who has entered with some authorisation is also here in an activity to which it authorises, and that these permits cannot be used as an instrument to enter Finland and thus the purpose of the measure here would be someone else. In that sense, Mr Myllykoski has made a very good observation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u79	Madam President! That we do not now become the debate of two Members of Parliament, but I will bring one new or related point of view. Could you say that we must be particularly on our toes when this pre-monitoring is in place where Migri is already at the moment? For example, the definition of remuneration for those with specialist status is exceptional and has made it possible to calculate housing benefits or daily allowances as a salary and does not comply at all with the level of remuneration of specialist experts in the EU Blue Book. In that sense, you must be particularly sensitive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u80	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u81	Madam President! Under the current law, tourism companies have been granted an exemption under the current law to provide transport as part of a package of tourism services without a licence for taxis. We have dealt with, as many of us remember, in this Chamber the law on transport services in the first and second packages during this parliamentary term. The first package of traffic services included the fact that the government parties were ready to wreck the world's best taxi system from next Sunday. The new taxi legislation will therefore enter into force on 1 July, and today, on the last day of the spring season, we are already correcting that law that will enter into force. Why we are in this situation is linked to the fact that in committee, in the case of package number one, we decided that, in phase two, we should return to possible border crossings of permit requirements in an activity where the transport of a person is a very small part of some other package of services. But it did not come back because, in phase two, the return of derogations did not end up in the final government proposal, because it did not get political approval in the government parties. Now we are in a situation where the Ministry has reacted urgently since the contacts with the tourism operators. It is a good thing that has reacted — but not good legislation. In itself, the fact that tourism service companies will not need a taxi driver's licence as part of the package of services in the future is to be welcomed. But we must remember that there is more concern about this future legislation in the case of taxis. When the Minister came forward in mid-June with the announcement that tourism service companies were being dealt with, more of us certainly received contacts about whether the law could be amended even more in relation to the removal of the obligation to take up duty on call, the place of employment and so on — the government decided to throw all the blocks in the air at once by opening up the permit quotas, on-call obligations and pricing. In the taxi service field, both service providers and customers currently have more open questions in mind. We have received feedback from these and we have also been able to read them very widely in various newspapers. The realism of this law now before us is that many tourist service companies rely on thousands of seasonal workers and their training as a taxi driver in relation to linguistic challenges alone is impossible and also costly. We tabled a unanimous report on this Government's rapid motion in committee, including Mr Myllykoski, in which we stressed that the shadow economy and possible unfair competition needed to be monitored. Finally, Mr President, a high-quality, reliable taxi system, which is in a very big transition since 1.7., does not need and does not stand up to any driver driving the grey economy interfaces, and here, too, we legislators have a role to play.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u82	Mr President! The Government has presented and the Committee on Transport and Communications has unanimously addressed this amendment to the Act on Transport Services, which will enter into force at the beginning of July. This change in the increase in the driver's driving licence exemption for domestic and tourist service companies is really necessary to clarify the situation, a situation that has already led to a very wide range of interpretations, especially in social media. Without this amendment, next Sunday, when the Act on Transport Services came into force, domestic and tourist service companies would have needed the transport of their packages in order to carry out a taxi licence, and, in addition, every transport driver would have been required to carry out, among other things, a taxi driver test, which apparently survived quite late, especially for tourism and service operators, and came as a surprise. Understandably, they felt that this was quite unreasonable. This change of law means that when carrying out domestic or tourist services, the driver would not need a driver’s licence if the transport was part of the company’s service package and the vehicle was controlled by the service company. However, the requirement for a company-specific licence for taxi services remains. I would like to thank Minister Berner for his very rapid response to this issue and the committee for its very swift handling of the change. It is very good that the change comes into force quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u83	Madam President! I'll take a representative. On behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, I should like to thank you very much, quite openly and with gratitude, both for the government and the opposition parties, but for the first part, the rapid reaction from that direction of the Minister, I cannot agree with that. But the most important thing is that this matter was corrected, and the committee unanimously saw this to be the case. As far as home services are concerned, I did wonder, without predicting a change in the current situation, whether we should have anticipated what this might bring to the sector when, at least for the moment, there are no operators in the home services whose timetables — at least in the context of municipal care — are already 10 to 15 minutes per elderly person — could be linked. But on the whole, perhaps with this change we will be able to begin to think that our entire transport system, which, during the last term of the government, was opened up, could be made more flexible so that, in connection with these transports, we can make more diverse transports. The merger came, which in itself helped us, but in the case of Kela, if it is related to transport from the central hospital to the home, it is impossible to connect with the shopping and other services the elderly are entitled to, and these things must be promoted. However, this makes it possible for tourism service entrepreneurs to wish for it, and the distress call, especially from Northern Finland, was strong. This would have meant an enormous increase in costs when seasonal workers would have had to apply for their driving licences at the level of persons, which would have really been a big and heavy package when working relationships last from one month to two months. For that period, the acquisition of this training or the provision of training for its worker would have entailed unreasonable costs for the tourist entrepreneur. On the other hand, some of the taxi operators also expressed their views that these tourist service companies produce customers for them, if the tourist entrepreneur only keeps to the transport related to the service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u84	We shall now resume the plenary session adjourned at 2 p.m. The 11th item of the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u85	Question Time will be initiated by a Socialist Parliamentary Group. Congressman Lindtman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u86	Mr President! The summer is well along and the parliamentary term is coming to an end. This spring, the government's social revolutions have taken almost all the attention, [Department: No, no! ] But, Mr President, there is something else going on in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u87	Madam President! Thank you for the question. The government has not done these things in silence, but it has openly told us what it is seeking. It seeks to lower the employment threshold, and on that basis these issues have been carefully prepared, and this preparation is still ongoing. So the conclusion that the government is bringing some proposals is still early. We are carefully preparing models that, in our opinion, will last in Parliament. Then they'll be brought here, and then we'll be ready to come to conclusions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u88	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u89	Mr President! I note that both reports commissioned by the government — these rapporteurs have said that these measures have little effect on employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u92	Minister Lindström. — Let us stay within 1 minute if it is okay for all groups to be asked questions in order to celebrate the summer and for everyone to be able to answer them in peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u93	Madam President! Here comes the congressman. Lindtman asked me a bunch of questions where everything was so sweetly mixed up, but I'm trying to answer this last one, this model of self-seeking. As you well know, we are about to reform the regional growth service. Part of it is one piece, which is this self-help job search model, in which the carnage system is renewed. I'm sure you can tell me what kind of model you think it might be. [from intermediate to intermediate ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u94	Mr President! The essence of the question was that if you meet the job-seeking obligation in this active model, which is four jobs a month — for some, it is too little if there are many jobs available,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u97	Mr President! Firstly, in this number of jobs, how many must be applied for. It's not categorically four jobs. It is zero to four depending on the employment situation in the region, which is the individual's own situation. This is the basis for determining how many jobs you need to apply for. It may even be zero if the situation in the region or the person’s situation affects this. The self-employed job search required to obtain unemployment benefit and the active model of unemployment security are both aimed at promoting employment, increasing employment. This reform of unemployment security sanctions does not affect the active model. In reforming the sanctions for unemployment security, self-employment is key, and in this active model wage work, business activity, participation in services affects the amount of unemployment security. Self-employed job search improves employment opportunities, thus supporting the fulfilment of the conditions of the active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u98	Mr President! There is now a need for urgent action to remove obstacles to employment rather than the constant stick line provided by the government. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u99	Madam President! Since this is a matter for the Minister of Finance and he is not present, I will answer the question. The government is not going to interfere with the transfer tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u100	Since two other parliamentary groups have questions related to the same theme, we will take them here. Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance, representative Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u101	Mr President! Information on Active Model 2 means that the conditions for unemployment benefit are being changed once again. This would be a great opportunity in this context to correct the worst problems of the active model one — as the government promised last winter to do if things went wrong. It is now quite clear that the active model No. 1 did not increase employment but increased poverty, dependency on income support, bureaucracy and the experience of public arbitrage. Well, according to the latest information, the government is planning to transfer the corrections to its successor after all. Wouldn't it be good manners to clean up your own mess?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u102	Madam President! First of all, the relationship between the two: the same situation, such as the non-applicability of a job — i.e. this failure to seek self-employment — would not result both in a lack of care and in a reduction in unemployment benefit through an active model. This double sanction has been prevented by the legislation already in force. Example: if a job seeker fails to apply for employment opportunities as required by the employment plan and therefore loses unemployment benefit on a fixed-term basis, the reference period for the active model will start at the beginning of the period, and if the benefit had been reduced before the qualifying period, it will return to the normal level. So after Karenss, let's start with a clean slate. Active model one has been promised to be repaired, and that work has been done. A regulation on that is becoming a matter, that is to say, it is being supplemented, but we are not opening up an active model number one. These are two different things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u103	The Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party would also like to ask a question about this theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u104	Madam President! Finland needs an active model both on the employer side and on the unemployment side. Today, the government presented the so-called active model 2 with many good elements. However, there are a significant number of unemployed people whose ability to work has been reduced, for example for health reasons, to such a low level that they are not in practice able to work or even fulfil these active model obligations. Improving their life situation would require more rehabilitation support. There are also a huge number of young people who are already in the early stages of adulthood completely excluded from society. I would now like to ask Minister Lindström: what measures does the government intend to take in favour of these young people at risk of exclusion, and is the government going to increase rehabilitation aid so that these people do not have to be captured by this active model?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u105	Madam President! On this question of how to take disability into account in this self-employed job search model, which has now been named as an active model number two: medical research takes into account, as has been the case up to now. But I would like to say that the government has decided in the spending limits debate and that we know that there are people there who are now talking about by Mr Laukkanen, who are not, in a way, targeted at these measures that we are doing. One of the reasons for these NEETs is that they are nowhere, they are nowhere — not in the statistics, they are not in the cards. This is a big problem, not only for this government, but also for the next government. This is a national problem. We have woken up to this in cooperation with the Minister for Education and Culture, the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, throughout the government. This is a challenge, which is the way in which we can catch these young people. Rehabilitative work activities: Of course, it will continue to be necessary. We need to clarify this system so that people have
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u106	Mr President! The value of society is always measured in the way it treats the most vulnerable. The government's active model has acted as feared. Employment has not improved, but unemployment benefits as a result of this measure
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u107	Madam President! Yes, it is a little awkward to start with the fact that employment has not improved. Recent figures in May: The decline in long-term unemployment, employment in each sector, has improved. According to Statistics Finland, the employment rate was 72.3 per cent, which is nearly 3 percentage points higher than in May of the year before. And you say that employment has not improved. Of course, we are not saying that a model solves these issues. I have said dozens of times in this Chamber that each of these measures has some effect. The main effect has been that the economy has started to grow, it is obviously clear. The Kiki agreement had a positive impact. All of these have an impact, but it is a waste of time to start assessing the impact of some kind of active model on employment. You can't say that yet. But I'll tell you this, from the TE Offices.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u108	Mr President! On the active model one, you took a lot of unemployed people out of the table and left a glass of water. Now you're going to take that table where the glass of water will drop. It's pretty wild for the government. Minister Lindström, more than a year ago, you were no longer satisfied with the Finnish fundamental values that defend Finns. You, Minister, have made a political leap and you have taken the hard values of the coalition, as these active models also say. However, Mr Lindström, could you show the softer side and cancel the active models and not make these drastic cuts, especially for those who are hard to find employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u109	Mr Lindström — Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u111	Irade the Talman! Activation is good in itself, and different means should be tried.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u112	Madam President! The government has recognised this problem and we have, of course, tried to take measures specifically to open up these hidden jobs in such a way that they too would be sought. One of the feedback that has come from entrepreneurs is that they are afraid of that bureaucracy. Of course, it takes quite a lot to recruit in small companies in particular, and we have, of course, considered accepting entrepreneurs, especially those small entrepreneurs who are currently employed in Finland. We have identified this problem, but there are no easy solutions for these hidden and hidden jobs, which are strange concepts in themselves. We know that there are many jobs that will never come to the public for bureaucracy or for some other reason. Even because of this kind of self-seeking, that people would become active and go for those jobs — as in the old-fashioned way to ask if there is work — can be one solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u113	Mr President! This is where Mr Lindtman took off from this report by Mr Kauhanen. This question will be asked at the end: ‘What can be decided on the basis of research literature on a different level of employment security in companies of InvestigatorStandard responds :‘In the literature it is considered justified that employment security The question is asked:‘Is Answer:‘The studies examining the I would like to ask you, Minister Lindström: at what stage do you have this reform of protection against dismissal in your government? When will we be able to assess it in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u114	Mr President! That assessment is coming to an end. Together with Mr Mykkänen and Mr Lintilä, we have carefully prepared these matters, as I tried to say in my first reply, but we are of course still in the process, and we have nothing final. But there's not much time to wait. Yes, we have a common will that, just now, we are taking these matters forward, that is, to the statement, and then to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u116	Now, I would like to give a reply to these people, who from their own group asked a question about this theme, and then to the next question, that everyone will then be able to answer them and raise their own question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u117	Mr President! First of all, I have to say to the Watchman, who here is a little bit [Right : Representative! ] Minister, when you said that I have not read this proposal, I have read it and, contrary to what you said, that in the initial phase it is an obligation of four jobs and then an assessment is made of whether it is 0-4. But the problem is that when there is an obligation and a stick on top of each other, it is hard to keep up with what the unemployed person has to do, that he is entitled to unemployment benefit. And when the Minister just told me what to fill, I am certainly not the only one who said that it is difficult to keep up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u118	Madam President! Let's go back to the number of jobs we're looking for. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u120	Mr President! Minister Lindström, with all due respect, if you too insist on cheating on finding out where our active model of sanctions for number one and number two is going, would it not be honest to admit that it may be a little difficult for the unemployed? One of the major flaws in the unemployment benefit system is that people who are unable to work are also demonstrably hanged in it, and the government needs to be given props for the fact that the active model between one and two has been awakened to the fact that this is the case. The active model number two's obligations are no longer extended to this category. That is progress, but would it not be better to let people on sick leave and retire if they are unable to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u121	Madam President! This government has also made decisions on this target group. I rarely lift my own pants on this issue, but Lex Lindström was decreed during this term of government — I did not name it myself, but Mr Soini of the time, thank you — and it responded to that. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u122	Madam President! This has been a very enlightening debate and Question Time at the end of the season, even though there is a little emotion here. Now, however, we all agree that there are quite a lot of young people who are not going to catch up, and then, on the other hand, we see quite a lot of working models in Europe, for example, an apprenticeship model which seems to have such a new opportunity in many European countries when it has been reformed and rationalised. So I ask the Minister about this particular problem for young people, namely that although there is a genuine desire for work, there is no longer any belief that you can find employment: is apprenticeship training being reformed in such a way that its threshold is reduced, is also a model for the employer and is encouraging this young person and its threshold is low enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u123	Mr President! Thank you for this excellent question. The social exclusion of young people is a very acute problem in our society, and there is a need to address it in all areas of government. Of course, education is the best remedy to strengthen young people's prospects for the future and increase their participation, and in this respect too, it is important that we have made a major reform of vocational education and training here in Parliament this season, which will bring new opportunities for job learning, including facilitating apprenticeship training. We have a new model of training contracts, a new model of apprenticeships and learning in the workplace at the moment is easier than before, that is to say, to get into it. It would now be important for this message to be spread across Finland, so that companies that suffer in many places from labour shortages, a shortage of skilled labour, would take young people to be trained, because it also opens not only the door to working life for young people but also for companies to recruit experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u124	Mr President! Indeed, this has often overlooked the exclusion of young people, which is also linked to the role of the Minister for Youth insofar as we, for example, have made excellent progress in this parliamentary term, and it has been a great success story, and it is the customers themselves who have experienced it as an excellent relief to the previous situation. They have made it clear in various contexts that, therefore, customers themselves, that precisely this sort of one-stop principle, what happens here, where they can then be steered forward, makes a low threshold to come there to get that help, even for those to whom it is otherwise — one can say that with this existing bureaucracy — a higher threshold issue. So this is one of the key reforms that has been achieved. There are already about 60 Ohjaamo points by the end of the year, and these will be consolidated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u125	Mr President! Minister Lindström, it is true that we are waiting here for an answer — hundreds of thousands of people behind the television screens and we in this Chamber — to the question, a clear simple question: if you meet an active model of job-seeking and not employment — then you do not work, but you do not work — whether you cut 5 per cent of your unemployment benefit or not, the active model is one. Answer this simple question. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u126	Madam Speaker! This system of penalties is different from the so-called 'active model',
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u129	Congressman Rinne, a brief question now, the others will calm down.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u130	Mr President! I am a lawyer from my education and have handled quite a lot of matters in relation to these labour market issues and unemployment security issues as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Unemployment Fund. Now I ask you, when I did not understand anything about that answer:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u131	Well, in a simplified way, if that job seeker doesn't even try to apply for those job opportunities,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u138	This question is closed at this stage. I'm sure we'll be back to this in the fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u139	Then the Finnish Parliament Group wants to ask a question. Congressman Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u140	Mr President! The question of the Finns Party goes to Minister Lepänen and concerns food production, which is an important issue for all of us. With Brexit, the EU is threatening to cut agricultural subsidies further. As usual, the Finnish Government bows down to the EU and does not keep Finland’s interests sufficiently on the agenda. In 2017, the rains ruined the harvest. The severe drought in 2018 has caused damage. It must have rained one time in south-west Finland in seven weeks. Producer prices have collapsed. How is it possible that Finnish agriculture is driven into a state of emergency when it is the Prime Minister's party? The government, the centre, the coalition, the blues, how do you intend to ensure that Finnish farmers will be able to maintain agriculture in the future? True Finns continue to demand clean and safe Finnish food for Finnish tables. The feeling is that the Finns are the only party that keeps agricultural problems on the table and tries to find solutions to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u141	Madam President! If you have to answer yes or no, the answer is yes. The Government has exactly the same line as Mrs Elomaa's presentation of the Finnish Standard. We want to maintain Finnish food production, the Finnish food economy, Finnish security of supply, the profitability of Finnish agriculture. We do not humble ourselves before the EU. It has certainly also become clear to the people of Peru that we do not accept this proposal for a financial framework. That has become quite clear. If it has not come, it is now: we will not accept it. We do not accept that we should give up what we receive most from our contributions, not of course. That's the starting point for everything. But even this government can't help it. It's just a simple fact. Last year we built a package here, and we are monitoring this year's weather developments very closely. We have already taken a number of measures. Some are still at the stage, and we are going to intervene here too, that is obvious. The most important thing
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u142	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this issue to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u143	Mr President! During the 2019-23 election period, it will be decided whether there will be agricultural production in Finland and, as a result, Finnish food products and, through it, hundreds of thousands of jobs. On 1 June, the EU Commission published its agricultural proposals for the financial period 2021 to 27. In Finland, the proposal would mean a serious situation for producers, even a death blow: the bureaucracy required by the EU and the continued reduction in subsidies, the heavy debt burden on farms, the hard work — young people soon do not want to continue to work economically, physically and mentally hard when the large generation stops. The Finnish consumer wants clean, safe and animal welfare-friendly food production, also understanding the importance of security of supply. This government, too, has pushed agriculture into such a state that there will soon be no continuity. We need to get a young generation on board. How is the government going to do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u144	Mr President! I think I answered that question in my previous answer. First of all, from this first section, the EU wants to cut agriculture according to its proposal for a financial framework: we do not accept it. For the second time, we will not accept it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u147	Madam President! Yes, in recent years it has been unusually rainy and, in turn, unusually dry. In addition to the weather, the government has undoubtedly also followed the long-term development of climate change and its impact on global and also national food security. I would ask Minister Tiilikainen: how has the government intended to combine climate policy and food policy, and how will the government contribute in the long term to reducing the effects of climate change on food security in both the global and national contexts?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u148	Mr President! The Government has been very active in the fact that climate change mitigation plays an increasingly important role in both Finland and the EU’s objectives. The Paris Agreement must be implemented. The promises made so far are not enough to keep the warming below 2°C, and just as the questioner pointed out, the result will be serious disruptions to global food supply and global water supply. At this point, then, we need to introduce the means to adapt and control at the same time, and in Finland's agriculture, as in the rest of the world, for example, this carbon sequestration on arable land is one of the most important things, and this is where we are actually conducting experiments with key project funding, which means that agriculture can also be prepared for the most difficult weather conditions when carbon sequestration is added to the soil, and therefore moisture conditions should also be better able to absorb these difficult weather conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u149	Madam President! As Minister Leppä has just said, drought has been a major handicap, and we also know that Finland and the other Nordic and Baltic countries have been affected by this drought. My question is: has the Minister left yet to discuss the direction of the European Union as to whether the Union could help in this exceptional drought? Secondly, you have just mentioned the report by Mr Karhinen. Could you shed light on the timetable that has been set for this, because it will undoubtedly have a major, significant impact on how producer prices will develop from this point of view?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u150	Madam Speaker! There has been a debate on the issue of drought at European level and it is quite true, as Mrs Hautala has said here, that this affects a very large part of the European Union. With reference to the recent issue, climate change is certainly a factor in our continuing drought and problem in many countries in southern Europe and Western Europe, and this affects the adaptability of our food production across Europe. In addition, we have worked very hard with the various Member States on this issue and have sent both the Council of Ministers and the Commission a signal of the seriousness of this issue and of the measures that the Commission can also take in this regard. Then, with regard to this study by Karhinen: we have six months to work. By the end of the year, there must be proposals for action on what this government can still do — and there may also be interim reports — plus what the next governments should do to ensure that this is done for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u151	The next item is the Green Parliamentary Group. Representative Toivola asks a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u152	Madam President! I'm a 40-year-old man. I'm a father. I'm a homosexual.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u153	Mr President! I would like to thank — and I believe that more people in this Chamber share this assessment — for the touching speech by Mrs Toivola, for the way in which you spoke, in accordance with my wish, you saw the image of many people in the world that Finland should be a country in which people have the right to be what they are, to be heard, seen and to get the whole of their person into the light that it is good for a person to be. I appreciate your view and promise to get to know both that WHO policy and your proposal on what can still be done. On several occasions, you have rightly raised the issue of trans-nationality and the role of these people in society, also in the light of legal clauses, but I believe that your question is broader, as it were, as far as legislative changes are concerned, about how equality could be better achieved. I invite you, Mr Toivola — and I would like to invite other Members of Parliament to join me in reflecting on this subject, even at the beginning of the autumn season.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u154	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register by pressing the V button and standing up. The Swedish Parliamentary Group also had a question on this subject. First, however, let us take a supplementary question, Mr Toivola, and then Mr Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u155	Madam President! I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for this invitation, and we will accept it with an open heart in the spirit of cooperation. One major flaw in relation to gender minorities is also, as it were, our dual sex system, which for most of us is the most familiar and safest one: male and female. At the same time, however, it puts quite a few members of the gender minority in a very difficult position, once again in a situation where it is very difficult to form one's own identity and picture of one's own life. This also applies to inter-gender children — who, fortunately, have also recently been raised more and more in the social debate — and how to act as fairly as possible for them and also with the protection of their own identity and experience. Germany has taken action on this issue, which means that the third legal gender has now been introduced. I would ask the government: do you have the will, the readiness or the intention to promote the introduction of a third legal sex in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u156	Mr President! That is why I am going to answer this question: it is my responsibility to have an information system and, therefore, it is my responsibility to have an information system. We all know here that it is based on girls and boys: when you look at each of our social security numbers, you can see which sex we are. We have started here, I think we were already on the side of last year, the reform of this system — we are running out of social security numbers in about 10 years’ time — and, if I remember correctly, we are also looking into whether we can include the third sex in this, so to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u157	Then the question, Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u158	Ärade talman, jack för Ordet! Nuvarande translag, som jag personalligen haft glädjen att undertekna i egenskap av minister, innehåller tuvarr ett krav på avsaknad av fortplantningsförmåga för transpersoner när de vill korrigera sin könstillhöighet. Det kränker aven deras personalliga integritet, deras rätt till privatochfamilivochsjälvbestämmanderätt. Vi behöver, vill jag säga, i dag uppdatera lagen för att motsvara dagens uppfattning om respekten för pool vårt pineskovärde. Bästa regering, om vi talar klarspråk så bryter lagstiftningen mot Mänskliga rättigheter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u159	Mr President! The ministry already has practically prepared legislation on this subject in the last parliamentary term in the table box. Since this is a government Question Time, not a party or, in particular, me personally, I say this: the government has no intention of bringing a translation into Parliament during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u160	Madam President! We have had this debate so many times that I am not going to ask whether the government is going to bring a new translation. Unfortunately, this government does not have the will and the courage to correct an obvious violation of human rights. The Norwegian model referred to by Mr Biaudet has taken a position on the situation of minors. After all, we now have a situation in which two parties in the government have already set themselves a position at their party meeting, which calls for the reform of the transfiguration. It is noteworthy that the position of the Assembly also raises the issue of the status of minors and is a difficult and complex issue. Norway has made one model of it. In your previous reply to Mr Toivola, you asked what are the things that could be done even now without legal changes, and it is quite true that you can do a lot of things that are not just legal changes: awareness, training for teachers, doctors, educators and authorities to deal with diversity. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u163	Mr President! Just as in several speeches here, I see that, with the Pride Week and the many events that have taken place, everyone may have to face this issue in his own mind, and I recognise that it will certainly continue to evoke feelings in this Chamber today in many ways. In any case, the openness of Finnish society, the recognition of differences and the genuine desire for equality in the name of human rights have also been raised by this process of events and this Pride event, which I personally consider to be justified and correct. I therefore fully agree that awareness, transparency and debate — when it is conducted in a good spirit and constructive manner — are often in the interest of things like this. As far as the question of minors is concerned, I agree that it is not simple. I would not even be able to say, at least from this point of view, what I think would be the right way forward, so I am not going to knock out the idea of that working group at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u164	There are three more groups here with questions on the table. Let us take the question—the answer principle. Parliament Group of the Centre Party, representative Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u165	Madam President! There has been talk of social and health care reform to the point of exhaustion over the past few years, but too little attention has been paid to the regional reform, which is essential to this package, in which the provinces actually decide independently, for example, on social welfare and health care, and then, of course, on the very important development of livelihoods. Perhaps 80% of the money will be spent on social and health care, but a significant package will then be available in the regions for the development of economic activities and related tasks. Some 400 different levels of government will be put to an end and only 18 provinces will be set up, that is to say, a huge amount of bureaucracy will be dismantled. This is something that has been completely ignored. There has always been a cry for genuine democracy in this house, and that is what we are getting here, ladies and gentlemen, when people get to decide their own business. So I ask Minister Vehviläinen: what is the situation in the provinces, when you, as Minister of Local Government and Reform, have certainly been around these provinces a lot this year?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u166	Mr President! That's a very good question. It is true that a great deal has been said here specifically about social reform, but less about the regional reform and the democratic side that Mr Hoskonen has mentioned. As far as democracy is concerned, I want to say that it is far too little. We should all remember in this Chamber that the basis of public authority and public administration lies in democracy and democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u169	Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, representative Salolainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u170	Madam President! The prime ministers of the European Union are currently meeting at the summit and are facing a very serious problem. This is a problem of refugees, which has become very bad and is already threatening both the unity of the EU and national unity in the various Member States. A good example at the moment is Germany, where even the breakdown of the government can result from the failure to resolve this issue. I will ask the ministers concerned: What are the Finnish guidelines for these serious questions? Are you prepared, for example, to impose sanctions on countries that do not fulfil their obligations here and so on?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u171	Mr President! That's a relevant question. Of course, the summit is currently under way, and Prime Minister Sipilä is also there. Of course, Finland's basic point of departure is that this summit should look for a solution that will shift the focus on dealing with the refugee issue in the region of origin, the removal of root causes — increased support there for people to live in accordance with human rights and decent life there — and then take people into Europe in more organised ways, through resettlement, quota refugees. Trying to find better ways than the current way, which is the main rule and which leads thousands of people per year to drown in the Mediterranean Sea and to the uncontrollable arrival of refugees, particularly on the shores of the Mediterranean, which has led to this political crisis, as Mr Salolainen mentioned. There is a need for a European solution, it is definitely in the interests of Finland, and we all have to follow the rules together, and Finland is supporting it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u172	Blue Parliamentary Group, representative Hongisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u173	Madam President! The Firearms Act is currently being reformed. There has been a lively debate on the draft law among hunters and gun enthusiasts. I believe that many of us, too, have received feedback on the matter on e-mails and otherwise and also proposals for corrections. It appears that the draft law will still have to be amended before the final opinion is delivered and the opinion may still be processed during the committee round. Mr President! I ask Mr Mykkänen: what is the timetable for the drafting of the law, and is it possible that this draft law will be further refined?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u174	Mr President! Yes, on the basis of the relevant feedback, clarifications and amendments to the draft law are to be made. The intention is to bring the draft law first to the Ministry of Justice for inspection in the coming weeks, and in this context the idea is also to communicate yes to these changes which I will be presenting, and the content of the law as I come along with the government partners to take it forward. As has been said, Parliament's strong support in this matter, especially for Finnish reservist activity and reservist activity, is very important, and I hope that this also applies to the Socialist Group, although I was a little concerned about the judgments of the representatives and Mr Paatero about some of the articles. I hope that Mr Rinne will be able to confirm that the Social Democrats will support the reservist activity, which is an important part of our defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u175	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! This is the last Question Time this spring. Although the plenary session will continue, I would like to extend warm thanks to you for this spring and wish you a very relaxing, peaceful and safe summer. In particular, I would like to thank those close to you, and I hope that when you go home now, you will thank them for having been so good here. And I would also like to thank your parents — you too. Your loved ones and loved ones are one of your most important pillars. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now the government also has a place of thanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u176	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank the Bureau for its good cooperation with the government and for the work that we have done together, together and separately, for every Member of Parliament. We were allowed to spend the whole winter from the autumn of the year ago in this wonderful framework of ours, the restored Parliament House, and we should be happy and proud of every moment we can have here. I would also like to thank the House's services for the help we continue to receive, including the parliamentary assistants and the people of the entire house.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u177	One more question. Congressman Rinne, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u178	Mr President! This spring there have been many questions and many debates in this Chamber and interesting things, issues of importance to citizens, issues of debate and decision-making. I, too, would like to express my strong and strong thanks to the staff of this house, the staff of the ministries, who have done a great deal of work, especially in connection with the social welfare reform, in an urgent and urgent manner. It's worth working on. I would also like to thank the government for having at least tried to answer our questions in many Question Time in a way that opens up to the public. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u179	Mr President! It may be that we and Mrs Rinte have similar forms of relaxation. I'm going to be with my loved ones, I'm going to go to the lake a little bit, and anyone who knows me at all knows that going to the lake means Hoytäinen in North Karelia. And I hope that each of us — and I also refer to Minister Leppa’s speech — will remember to eat a lot of local food and Finnish food this summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u180	Yes, it is worth remembering, as the plane says, that first place an oxygen mask on your face to help others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-28-ps-76.u181	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The Council of Presidents proposes that Parliament decide to suspend the Parliaments at the end of this sitting and to meet to continue its work on Tuesday 4 September 2018 at 14 p.m.
