ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of one hour is reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 3. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u2	Mr President! Government proposal for laws on indexation checks on national pensions and certain other benefits [Fresh—The President-in-Office] The proposed changes will implement the Government's budgetary plan for 2018 to 2021. In the budgetary plan, the Government decided that increases in benefits linked to the national pension and consumer price index would not be made between 2017 and 2019, i.e. the indices would be frozen. The proposed amendment to the index checks is intended to be permanent. In order to ensure sustainable financing of public service production and social security, effective solutions are needed that increase revenue from public finances and reduce expenditure or their growth in the long term. This has not changed since the decision on index freezing in the context of the budgetary plan. Since the end of 2017, the two-year boom has brought plenty of light to the labour market. Finland’s economy is growing and its growth is wide-ranging. Business confidence is high and demand for labour has increased. Employment is increasing and unemployment is falling. Growth in the economy and employment strengthens public finances, increasing tax revenues and reducing unemployment expenditure. However, the good economic cycle masks the structural factors that have weakened public finances over the past decade. Moreover, public debt is at a high level in the next downturn, which makes public finances much more vulnerable to the recession. The population is ageing through the economic cycle, and the increase in care and care expenditure due to the change in the age structure will inevitably continue until the 2030s if expenditure growth cannot be curbed. As the cyclical cycle stabilises, economic growth risks slowing down by one per cent to one-and-a-half fork. As the population is ageing, the amount of work done does not increase much, and economic growth is therefore left to productivity growth alone. The visible economic growth is not enough to finance the benefits and services offered to citizens by current legislation in the long term. Now that the economy is growing, the conditions for reforming economic structures are favourable, as demand will mitigate the potential short-term adverse effects of reforms. By designing reforms consistently and implementing them decisively, at best, it is possible to mitigate the adverse effects of reforms in the short term too. For these reasons, index freezing has been carried out as outlined in the budgetary plan. Mr President! According to Article 19 of the Constitution, anyone unable to provide the security necessary for a decent life has the right to the necessary livelihood and care. The necessary income and care means the level of income and service that secures the conditions for a decent life. In addition to the necessary means of subsistence, the same article states that the law guarantees everyone the right to safety of basic income during periods of unemployment, sickness, disability and old age, as well as the birth of the child and the loss of the guardian. This is at the heart of our fault-based social security, even if the provision is not attached to certain existing benefit schemes. As far as the provision is concerned, it has been established that its requirements are not met by legislative changes which would mean material interference in the security of basic income. On the other hand, it has been considered natural that social protection should be directed and developed in accordance with the economic resources of society. The purpose of this provision is to ensure that the security of basic income is guaranteed in the long term. As regards the index freeze proposal, it should therefore be assessed whether the level of basic security remains adequate despite the index freeze, i.e. whether it provides sufficient security and the necessary livelihood. When we talk about the level of income guaranteed by the Constitution, it is also influenced by the Nordic view that social security is a combination of financial support and services. In Finland, social benefits, social welfare and health care services and various health care caps form a whole. The level of individual benefit is therefore not a sufficient measure of support, as in Finland income may consist of a combination of different benefits, services and benefits, such as labour market support, housing allowance and income support. In addition, public health services and prescription medicines, among others, have their own ceilings that limit the cost of health care to a reasonable level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u3	This point may give rise to a small debate, perhaps a brief one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u4	Mr President! Minister, there was a tough debate here in 2016 about the need not to cut social security for veterans. As a result, the government retreated and you pulled out the VP surgery. Now you are cutting the income of people receiving a small national pension. You are raising their customer fees and medical expenses, and you are now also dealing with the fact that you will also be cutting the front for veteran benefits. Minister, why are you cutting off the livelihoods of veterans and people with small pensions?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u5	Mr President! Minister, in a rather quiet voice you spoke of that toilet, and I understand that this is an extremely serious and certainly difficult subject to present. I find it reprehensible that such cuts should be made during the economic boom. So I ask you: in what way have you explained the effects of this proposal? In general, it is always prepared in such a way that these opinions are also sought from those who might be able to make a statement on it. There's obviously been a question from Kela. What will we say and what will you say to the people who are already telling us that pension is not enough and the money is not enough? It is precisely those quiet and small people who would be entitled to receive more exactly what it is to give today when the economy is doing well and is in this economic boom. Why do you do these things?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u6	Mr President! It is true that we have pensioner poverty and there are livelihood challenges. From that tax point of view, the reduction in pension income will now be increased by 30 million for next year and the basic deduction by 40 million for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u7	Mr President! It is true that this proposal now makes it clear what is at stake in the unequal policies of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u12	Mr President! Here's the thing. If the government had made normal index increases, for example, labour market support for the unemployed and basic daily allowance would now be EUR 724 per month, compared to EUR 696 now. Yes, the question arises as to the values of the government. The economy is now on the rise — there is no reason to continue to be taken away from the poorest Finns. You have justified these cuts by saving the welfare state, but now that the economy is growing, you continue to cut, you continue to undermine the value base of the welfare state and you are taking away the poorest. This is totally unacceptable, and I expect Mr Mattila to answer the questions that have been asked above. The operation is therefore directed at income support, disability benefits, breast, minimum daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act, basic daily allowances under the Unemployment Protection Act, labour market support, child increases
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u13	Mr President! Indeed, it is surprising that, during strong growth rates, the central government will bring to this Chamber a proposal for further cuts in basic security. Not even the Aho government made such decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u14	Mr President! The recipients of the smallest pensions are among the most deprived in Finland and in need of the largest subsidies. Pensioners with low incomes are often women who have worked in low-wage sectors of a long working life or who have worked as a housewife for children, taking care of a very important job which, however, has not accumulated earnings-related pension. The government's index cuts must certainly be abolished, but in addition to that, the government's index cuts already made during this period must be replaced by an increase in the level of national pensions. A small increase in the guaranteed pension in accordance with the Government's draft budget is not enough, but the increase in national pensions also affects the level of the guarantee pension and contributes to a reduction in the tax burden on pensioners with low and medium income incomes through a reduction in pension income. In their alternative budget, the Christian Democrats have proposed raising the level of national pensions and, in addition, canceling these planned index cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u15	President! However, it should be borne in mind that the lowest benefits will be increased by EUR 80. This also has a gender impact, as the beneficiaries of the lowest benefits often have a large number of women and tax reductions are also targeted at the lowest incomes, and these also have a significant share of women. And we must remember that as far as veterans are concerned, we are now finally bringing all the veterans and invalids of our wars into the interests of unity. This should have been done more than 20 years ago. I would prefer to see an improvement in the situation of the most vulnerable, rather than an allocation of EUR 3 per head.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u16	I will give Mrs Mere the answer to this particular theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u17	Mr President! Well, it's a bit of a mess that you take from where you put it and where you put it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u20	At this stage in the debate, I would like to give the following answers: representatives Heikkinen, Väyrynen, Rehn-Kivi and Viitanen. After five minutes to the Minister, we will continue the debate. — In fact, since there has not been one speaker from the Convention here before, and now Mr Zyskowicz asks, I will give him the floor after Mr Viitanen has spoken, and then the Minister will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u21	Mr President! Indeed, putting our country in order has required painful solutions for all our citizens. This proposal does not propose any cuts to any benefits, but the levels of all benefits will therefore not rise next year. In other words, the freezing of the index does not mean a cut in euro but rather that the benefit does not increase with the increase in costs. [ Requests for answers from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, there are many requests for reply to the speeches that have already been made here, not just to Mr Heikkinen. There's a lot of them. Now, however, I think it is reasonable to give the floor to those groups which have not yet been given the first speech so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u23	Mr President! Yes, index security is part of basic security, and it is now being cut. It is amazing that the Finns and the Centre have joined in this basic safety surgery. As far as the Coalition Party is concerned, it understands. As far as the centre is concerned, the call by Santeri Alkio and Urho Kekkonen for the cause of the poor has now been very much forgotten. Of course, these cuts are not made by the government because of its grossness. All this is because Finland joined the euro area. We have suffered a great deal from being part of the euro area at a time when Sweden has raised its standard of living and has developed social security. We've had surgery. The people have suffered a great deal from this. This Euro-elefant is simply not something we want to talk about. I would like to ask the Minister: Why on earth are the weakest people being cut off? Why is basic security being addressed? It is understandable that cuts should be made, but this is by no means right or fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u24	Mr President, värderade talman! Nu är det inte dags för indexfrysningar. SFP vill satsa på dem som har det svårt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u25	Mr President! We are now in a situation where, once again, the government is cutting pensions — once again, the government is cutting pensions. The government's cutting, Congressman Kivelä, from the most underprivileged. Like Mr Väyrynen, I could say that this is historic in the sense that the centre is cutting down on basic security in the upswing. I too miss the Alchio so much in this regard. Despite this, this downtown behavior, that Prime Minister Sipilä told us in Finland that the centre was a major party in basic security. And then, at the same time, we weaken pensions, cut basic security. This is an untenable road. President! I would now like to ask the Minister: can it really be that, in the midst of all this, you are cutting the parlours, that you are also cutting the parlours, that is, the veterans? I really hope that you will answer the question that has been asked here: is this really the case, can it be, or is there some illusion?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u26	Mr President! So we don't forget the truth: Firstly, the income of the most low-income pensioners, such as those who have spent their whole time with children or otherwise at home, will increase because the guarantee pension will be increased. Secondly, everyone with low incomes in this society — i.e. the lowest incomes — receives income support, and income support has been made and full index checks are carried out. Well, as far as these index freezes are concerned, which are indisputable: it is not, of course, a question of undervaluing pensioners or a generation of reconstructors; it is a question of making savings in every direction. And the opposition has always resisted all savings, considered them excessive, but the fruits of this policy, the increase in employment, economic growth, will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u27	And now, Minister, three minutes at the maximum, from the speaking room.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u28	Mr President! First, the answer to why this was done at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health: This has been implemented and prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in accordance with the Government’s spending limits decision. Of course, we can consider the importance of the whole framework and the framework solution, what is the level of the framework, or what is the margin within the framework. Then the answer to the fact that there is a lack of basic security: I do not feel that it is entirely fair, however, to merely address basic security, because basic security is also a service system, including a benefit system. We have made a number of decisions in the budget debate that have decided to increase the minimum benefits, and it has been decided, among other things, to remove 55 days' ownership of all low incomes. In my opinion, poverty disappears at a time,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u31	Mr President! If the front bonus remains at the 2016 level, then my sense is that there will be no index increase. That's when they freeze the index. Mr President! If you look at the history behind this, the speeches that were made before the elections, Juha Sipilä, President of the Centre, the current Prime Minister Sipilä, said before the elections that basic security would not be cut. Now here downtown representative Heikkilä is trying to make black and white and claims that no cuts are being made now,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u32	Mr President! It's easy for everything in this room to get very black and white. This government was given 100,000 unemployed tomorrow. It has done 120,000 jobs, and it is perhaps the biggest thanks to this government and this country for what has been done. But, for example, this parliamentary term has increased the guarantee pension more than it would have increased by index increases, i.e. less than EUR 40 per month next year. It's so much bigger than when this government starts. Basic income support is protected against index freezing, and its level will rise by close on EUR 6 per month next year. Income support was also protected in 2015, so its level did not decrease in 2016 compared to the previous year, even though the national pension index's point figure fell. Mr President! Here in the Chamber, this conversation easily turns into only one part. The whole is the most important, and Finland is much better off than it was after you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u33	I would also like to give this reply to Mr Arhinmäki, the representative of this theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u34	Mr President! Is it really the case, Mr Heikkinen, that the Centre believes that national pensions are not basic security, that labour market support is not basic security or that basic daily allowance is not basic security when you argued that the level of basic security has not been cut? In 2016, you let the index go negative. It was a 0.4% cut. In 2017, it wasn't enough for you to have a frozen index, but you wanted to do another 0.85% cut. A total reduction of more than 1% of national pension, labour market support, basic daily allowance. Are you saying, Mr Heikkinen, that basic allowance, labour market subsidy or national pension are not basic security? They are basic security and have been cut by both index freezes and absolute cuts, despite Prime Minister Sipilä's promise before the elections;
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u35	Mr President! Finland is in debt and we have to make cuts and achieve some sort of balance in public finances. On this point, however, I honestly say that Mr Arhinmäki is right. This is a cut in relation to other increases in cost levels. But I do not know how many representatives here are interested in the disadvantaged. I'm the congressman myself. Väyrynen flung on the old political model that the coalition was not interested in the underprivileged. Yes, it is. I would pay attention to it, and a representative. Even Väyrynen could see how many different consumer price indices have risen in recent years. As far as health care is concerned, they have risen most. The 2015 index was 100, now it is 108. When housing has risen, energy has risen, so if someone here is talking about the whole, then these things should also be assessed, because pensioners in particular consume these things much more than employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u36	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Eestilä, who at least fairly acknowledged the impact of this decision on basic security. Especially this size class is the one that causes thought. You will make the poverty package worth 30 million next year, but the cuts will be more than tenfold. So what difference does a package like this make? When we talk about pensioners' poverty, we must remember that, at the same time that the national pension index has been frozen and still frozen as the economy continues to grow next year, a number of other decisions have been taken — for example, to increase health contributions and their responsibilities — which, together, have meant that many pensioners have become an impossible equation in health care, and we have often calculated through the Parliamentary Information Service that it is the poorest pensioners with the lowest income.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u37	Mr President! Mr Väyrynen has to say that last year there was a summer meadow in this house where grain and chaff were separated, and this certainly did not come to Brussels. In fact, the human line of the Finns of Peru changed permanently in the government to cold blue to discipline low incomes and pensioners. [ Hulls — The President knocks] Now we are talking about an alternative budget, and we have made our own alternative budget, in which we secure the purchasing power of small pensioners through a fair reduction in taxation. This is the line we have been pursuing since the beginning of the entire reign, but this chaff department never wanted to implement it, and now we have been allowed to implement it, although this time in the opposition. But that's where it says it in our alternative budget when they're processed. That there's a lot of options.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u38	Mr President! At the moment, I am very concerned about Minister Mattila's sleep. How can you sleep when you know that bread lines are growing, electricity is being cut off, medicines are not bought by pensioners because money is not enough? In this country, every tenth child lives below the poverty line. This is not a pompous act of washing hands and saying that we have given EUR 9 per month to basic pension. EUR 9 per month for basic pension means minus EUR 12 per month because it simultaneously cuts the housing allowance. This is the truth. I should see what these things mean. And as far as the question is concerned, I have to tell you that, unfortunately, when a person gets a temper, at least the next month will be without money, because now it is assumed that the income of the previous month will be sufficient to cover the next month's expenses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u39	Mr President! This is a sad performance, though. What is taken and given is always a value choice, and if you look at the actions of this government, you can only say that those on low incomes depend on basic security and are then given somewhere else. We have 900,000 low incomes in this country living below the so-called poverty line. Their numbers increase by about 20,000 to 30,000 each year. If politics were right and taking these people into account, why is their number increasing all the time? This is now cutting basic security in such a way that low incomes are increasingly driven into bread lines. We would all like them not to exist at all, but in this policy they will not be gone for decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I have now made my replies to the representatives of Taavitsainen, Sarkkinen, Kivelä and Kulmuni. Then a very brief reply to the Minister on the spot, if he feels that he has an immediate comment to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u41	Mr President! This week there is an old-age week in Finland. In honor of that, you, representatives of the government parties, will cut off the elderly. I deeply resent this choice of values. This really isn't right. In other words, Minister, in honour of Vanhusten Week, you decided to bring to Parliament a law freezing the National Pensions Index for 19 years, and next year the level of national pensions will be around EUR 25 per month, or EUR 300 per year, lower than if the index increases had been made normally during your term of government. And as has already been mentioned here, the index freeze also applies to the front fee paid by Kela. So the government also cuts off veterans. Why are you making our country see this? Why do you wish me good old age week in this way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u42	Mr President! The improvement in the employment situation is very good, but it does not warm up for one reason or another those outside the labour market who are now being cut off by this proposal. Cutting indices means cutting low incomes in everyday life as everything tilts. Cutting the index means even tighter daily life for the poorest Finns, the unemployed, the people's pensioners, the sick. And you have also disciplined them by, for example, increasing social and health care service charges. Mr President! This is a tough value policy in a situation where, however, the government has found the money for tax reductions of around 1.5 billion, which in euros have focused on well-performing Finns. The basic security has therefore been cut in order to finance tax reductions for those well-off, i.e. the poor are taken and the well-off are given. Money can be found selectively, but for low incomes
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u43	President! Surely even the representatives of the government parties will not accept this bill with the joy of jumping, swinging. However, it is notable that when the elections are less than 190 days away, the opposition will try to make the most of all the government's proposals. The level of individual benefit may not be a good indicator of income, as the income consists of different forms of support, services and combinations of benefits. That it's not this black and white. It must be borne in mind that the most vulnerable people are being raised from the swamp when the lowest daily allowances are raised by eight tens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u44	Mr President! Of course, there is no denying that indices have been frozen. That is true, and I think it was also found in the election programme of a number of opposition parties in 15 C.E. when preparations were made for the elections. But I would like to point out how the situation of the most vulnerable has also been improved. The smallest pensioners of all are those who live on a guaranteed pension, and this central government has increased the guarantee pension every year. It's bigger than it would have been with the indexes. How many times did the honourable opposition parties increase the guarantee pension during the last parliamentary term? I think it was round zero times, according to my memory. It is EUR 40 higher as a result of this parliamentary term. Or the minimum daily allowance: the difference that came at the time when you made the increase was OK, but the minimum daily allowance was excluded from the increase. Sickness, maternity, paternity allowance increases by nearly EUR 100. It's a lot of money for any person, not to mention the rehabilitation money that goes up on 300.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u45	When the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, has no special rush now, I will give three more answers before he has spoken. So the next response to Mr Kankaanniemi, then Mr Väyrynen, then Mr Halmemenpää and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u46	Mr President! It is worrying that the vice-chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is telling us that the cut in purchasing power is not a cut. The index means that purchasing power is precisely being cut. For example, wages are now rising by several percentage points, while the government, as the economy turns to strong growth, continues to cut out of the most vulnerable, excluding these guaranteed pensions to which a small increase comes. This is not the kind of harsh policy that has taken place in this millennium under such conditions. At the turn of the millennium, the Social Democrats, the Lipponen Government, cut the base for national pensions from very low-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u47	Mr President! Indeed, the approach to the elections is reflected in the speeches made by the representatives. I would like to say that, for example, the basic reduction in earnings-related pensions has not been cut and the cap on medicines will be reduced at the beginning of next year. A large part of the monthly income of many people on low incomes goes into drugs. Then there was reference to health center fees. They are up to the municipalities to decide, and many municipalities have not raised them. Mr President! One of my acquaintances, who is dependent on this smallest pension, who is enjoying this minimum pension, called after one Question Time and said that I would not have known how bad things were for me if I had not watched the shipment. That we must also have responsibility in the speeches in this Chamber for the image of our state of Finland. We have done 120,000 more jobs and they are used to finance:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u48	I have just promised to give the answers to Mr Väyrynen and Mr Halmemenpää, and then to Mr Andersson, and that is definitely the end of the line and to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u49	Mr President! First of all, all friendship with the Finns of Peru is forced to say that the Finns of Peru were involved in the government in making this multi-year index freeze decision and you are responsible for it in the same way as the centre, unfortunately. When I read this government proposal, it occurred to me that there has been a time when we were wondering what kind of bureaucracy this would entail and how much different benefits this index freeze would affect. Then let's try to compensate. It is difficult to even understand what this whole thing really means. Perhaps there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health this will be clarified and the constitutional aspect of this proposal will also be examined in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We are very close to the fact that this government proposal is also unconstitutional. At least previous hearings suggest that this may be the case. That's a lot of work in those committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u50	In this case, I must give Mrs Mere the answer to Mrs Väyrysen's claim about the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u51	Mr President! Interestingly, Väyrynen seems to have been present at those meetings when he knows better than the Finns themselves what we have agreed. We've never been on this paper. That is quite clear. We were promised when the government programme was drawn up, that when we get the economy up, we will remember the low-income — this is what I have discussed several times with the party office and the negotiators — and this promise has not been kept. I believe that Väyrysen must now raise his profile when he is in a one-person group, but I hope that the speeches will stick to the facts that he is certain to know. You, Mr Väyrynen, have not attended a single meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u52	Mr President! Whenever index cuts are made, it is important to take into account the cumulative effects, because people who usually receive one benefit also receive other benefits, so the overall impact on these lowest income Finns is greater. I would ask Mr Mattila: have you assessed this synergy at all, or even in some respects? In fact, the freezing of the National Pensions Index concerns the basic part of income support, disability benefits, breast meals, minimum daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act, basic unemployment allowance under the Unemployment Protection Act, labour market support, child increase and even the own resources threshold for medical benefits — i.e. a very large number of benefits. The cost of cancelling the suspensions of the national pension index for 2019 would be approximately EUR 118 million. Compared, for example, to the tax subsidies for fossil energy, which will be paid next year at EUR 1 billion or EUR 1000 million, this is where the remarkable choice of values lies in the economic climate in which we are now living.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u53	Mr President! Yes, I would urge the Central Party to change its communications office quickly. First, it is argued that index freezes are not a cut despite the fact that, as has been said, index security is obviously part of basic security in a situation where rents rise, food prices rise and living costs increase. Secondly, we are trying to make this point — note. — an investment of 30 million in minimum daily allowances and guarantee pension as a major achievement. That is a good decision, yes, but how does it compare to 300 million, which you have cut out from all low incomes throughout this parliamentary term in the form of purely index freezes? More than 100 million student grants will come on top of it, with an active model, cuts in earnings-related unemployment security, increases in pharmaceutical responsibilities and increases in customer fees — all under the responsibility of this board. And compared with the fact that the last government actually spent 400 million on improving basic security, this does not look good,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u54	Minister, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u55	Mr President! First of all, Mr Taavitsainen, you will now use the truth carelessly if you link it to the point where only these greetings are being given to Vanhustenweek. I appreciate the elderly and the work that is still being done in Finland, not only at Vanhustenweek but also every week, for example, with the Act on Elderly Services. And even after that, Finland is still a country of small income differences. Then I also think it is worth helping people out of unemployment. And my interpretation is that, for example, increasing employment in families with children is an issue that reduces the poverty of families with children. Customer fees have been raised in a number of speeches, and there is not only a cap but also a customer fee law and compliance with the law to prevent people from getting into rehabilitation, for example. Then there is the urgent need for drugs. I have Kela's page open here, Kela works quickly, so you can also receive an electronic commitment to medicines in the context of the basic income support decision if there is an urgent situation. And I would point out that this sum, which accumulates the roof of medicine, also falls as a result of government action. Mr Tolppanen, this guarantee pension has not been made to anyone's annoyance, but your example shows that the future government will have to carry out a comprehensive reform of social security, which will then, for example, deal with income traps, or whatever it is that social security wants to achieve. I think it is quite clear that such universal health insurance, which we have, will certainly continue to exist in the future, and hopefully also in the future. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u56	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u57	Mr President! Before the last parliamentary elections, Sipilä, the President of the Centre, promised and swore, as we have seen here: basic security will not be cut. Unlike the representative My corner here said, in my view, no party program before the elections had index freezes for basic security. They're cutting basic security. But no It was the only one who made such a promise. A much stricter promise was made by Timo Soini, then Chairman of the Finns Party, who said that there are about a million people in Finland who live for less than a thousand euros and cannot, cannot and cannot afford to operate. So, what have the Finnish ministers done in the government? First Minister Mäntylä and then Minister Mattila from Finland have both cut the basic security by freezing the indices but also by cutting them. When the 2016 index went negative, the index freeze was not made, but a 0.4 per cent freeze was made. In 2017, not even frozen to 0.4 per cent, but cut on 0.86, i.e. minus 1.26 per cent. It is the first time in history that national pensions are being cut and it has been done by this government — a government which the Prime Minister promised will not be cut off from basic security, a government that the President of the Ministers responsible promised cannot and cannot afford to do so. There was a discussion here that what is the role of blue Finns, which is the role of Finns. The role is the same, both have accepted the Government Programme, and none of the current Finns voted against when the level was cut for 2016 and when the level was cut for 2017. Mr President! All this means that national pensioners, who receive a small pension, have about EUR 25 less per month in relation to indices, labour market support, 30 less per month in receipt of basic daily allowance. This total has meant a cut of EUR 300 million in basic security. If you compare this with the last period when the government took more adjustment measures than the current government — bigger ones — at the same time, when more money was invested in basic security, more EUR 400 million, then the previous government improved basic security, this government has cut it. Mr President! Representative Eestilä raised an important point. Not only did he tell us what we all know — that is to say, Mr Heikkilä claimed that index checks aimed at ensuring purchasing power are not cuts, but they are cuts, not to mention absolute cuts — he also raised an important point as to whether the indices actually follow the increase in the actual costs of low-income pensioners, low-income unemployed people. People with low incomes spend most of their expenses on housing, food, medical and medical expenses. This has been explained by the fact that the KEL index — that index is generally calculated on the basis of purchasing power, purchasing behaviour, purchasing basket — differs significantly from the basket of low incomes. This means that even if the indices had not been frozen, even if they were given in full, the purchasing power of pensioners and the unemployed would still have fallen behind the real increase in costs. I have asked you, Mr Mattila, both here in Question Time and also in writing, whether the index should not be corrected to correspond in reality to the basket of low-income pensioners and unemployed people. The first time, you didn't answer anything. There was also a general response to the written question of index freezes, and you argued, among other things, that the freezings were smaller than the increases made by the previous government. Now, let me ask you once again: should we not now start a study to calculate the index formula in such a way that it actually corresponds to the basket of low incomes? That is, when index checks are carried out, they would correspond to how these low incomes
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u58	Mr President! That is the saddest thing about this now, when we are once again talking about the government cutting off basic security and the government cutting off pensioners, because we have ordered these calculations from Parliament's information service on many occasions, which, however, have shown that there will be a minus mark in the money bag, even if the government tries to explain how small increases will come to the guarantee pension. Well, that's good, but when you cut off more with one hand and add costs, for example, through medicines and increased care costs, it leaves a minus mark in the bag, and that's a very sad thing. All in all, Mr President, I would like to say again in this connection that we are now making a little history here: for the fourth time since the Prime Minister's Party in Finland is here, the government is cutting basic security. As Mr Arhinmäki said earlier, before the elections, Prime Minister Sipilä said that there would be no cuts to basic security. Well, when these years pass between the elections, then we just cut, and then the next election approaches, then 22.9. In the Finnish country, Prime Minister Sipilä explains that ‘the centre is a major party in basic security’, and explains that during the first Wait a minute, that is, during the next parliamentary term, and in the middle of it, as if it were just cut off — is this the logic? This is not really going to make me realize that how this can go, that we are a major party and then we're just going to cut it off and then we're going to start fighting again before the election just a little bit more than the hands have done here. In this respect, Mr President, I must say that I agree exactly with Mr Väyrynen here earlier that embryoism is a bit lost in this respect. And it seems to me that quite a few downtown representatives and field people also know it, because sometimes I get the feeling that even a little bit of bad conscience might be about this right-wing policy that has been done all in all. Minister Mattila here defends that not everything has been cut. Well, that's what's missing to get everything cut off. Now guard us from it. I do not believe that any pensioner will be satisfied with this reply from Minister Mattila that calm down, becomes a minus mark on the money bag, but we did not cut everything. That doesn't sound so good. President! Now, at the end of the day, the important question of what you said, Minister, about these index freezes in breast dishes. The impression of your speech is that it is going to be indexed. I hope that you will reject it, and if there is a chance that there will now be an index freeze and a cut — which is a cut — then we hope that the government can humbly reverse this, because this is the top of the line, that even the top of the table will be cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u59	The Minister would like to speak before the interruption. I'll give him one minute on the spot and then we'll go to an interruption.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u60	Mr President! Thank you for the debate. When this is over, I'll be out of this gym. — Mr Arhinmäki, I am still behind the answer to the written question on the basis of the statistics that I have received, and that is how it has been answered and calculated. Statistics Finland will certainly provide the most reliable statistics in Finland, and the consumer price index they publish shows how much consumption expenditure or income should change in order to keep the household unchanged. This is, of course, a very long answer. In addition to the Consumer Price Index Statistics Finland also publishes other indices, but according to the information I have received and the report I have received, indexes targeted at certain categories of persons do not exist — since you have raised this particular pension issue. But as I said, this written question and the answer are available on the Parliament's website as a whole. Then came the question of front veterans and this supplement. I think it is worth submitting that version of the wire to the committee, too, because this was very difficult to formulate, including that it was certainly difficult for me to explain it to you. But then there is the support of veterans, conscripts, and loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u61	Ladies and gentlemen! The debate and its deliberations shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after examination of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u62	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u63	Mr President! The economy has grown and jobs have increased. Of course, these are extremely important issues, but they do not help the situation of a low-income pensioner, not at all. In fact, improving the ability to pay contributes to the price of housing, particularly in growth centres, which is also reflected in the housing costs of pensioners. Pensioners' incomes do not rise much, even though living at the same time increases. Housing, food, medicines: thousands of Finnish low-income pensioners are forced to compromise on these basics of everyday life. According to this proposal, the National Pensions Index is being frozen to the level of 2018. This change concerns national pension, guarantee pension and other benefits linked to the national pension index. These other benefits include disability benefits, front benefits, minimum daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act, basic daily allowance, labour market support and child increase. Once again, I've heard the same hymn. The welfare of pensioners will be spared. However, these people have done their work to help our country to the point where it is now. Finland is still called the welfare state. The government should take care of its less well-off citizens. In elections and before elections, honey is usually promised. Now would be the right time to bear at least a little responsibility for the old and new electoral promises and to cancel the index freezes in this respect. The parliamentary debate raised the issue of the guarantee pension and the fact that it has been raised. I would not brag about this because we are talking about really small sums: EUR 9 and so away. If we really want to make a difference, we would remove the responsibility for medicines, this EUR 50, from those on low incomes. This is what the Finns of Peru suggest. Many low-income pensioners spend a lot of money on medicines. If you think of elderly women in Finland, many of them have gone to work since they were 14 years old, worked for almost ten years, and the pension did not yet accumulate. When the reform came, the pension began to be paid for work. Many elderly women have worked for over 40 years. Their monthly salary is about EUR 1100 to EUR 1300, including taxes. It is no wonder that pensioners on low incomes say that it is now their turn to receive their share of these welfare years. There has also been much talk of veterans in this Chamber today. The truth is, there are only about 11,500 veterans left in our wars. Indeed, I should have dealt with their situation earlier. The law is now coming into force that war veterans and veterans will be placed on the same line, including in the services to be taken home, which is very good. This law will not come into force until one year from now. It's too late. In other words, we must quickly make financial investments in favour of the veterans who are still among us. Now that we are talking about pensioners and that debate I did not receive during the day, and there is still enough time here, I hope that all the parties are actually promoting pensioners' affairs in such a way that they can improve their financial situation. Indeed, not all of them can afford food, housing, medicine. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u64	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of one hour is reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 4. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u65	Mr President! First of all, the amendment to the Act on the financing of unemployment benefit benefits before us must be said that the logic of refusing to prepare for a bad day in the event of a boom seems inconceivable. This is the same line that this government has been pursuing in the past, that is, employers are given a lot of money. Of course, it has to be admitted that, in the case of employees too, some compromise is being made on the kiky and the resulting burden of payment. At the top of the high economic cycle, it would make sense to increase the buffers in order to have what to pay for, while there will be a recession and unemployment, which, unfortunately, has been a habit in a cyclically sensitive country and, unfortunately, will continue to be. For example, in the years 14 and 16, the buffer ran out and the balance sheet of the Unemployment Insurance Fund went down, i.e. not a very long history of how fast we cannot see how strong the buffer melts. We should now make sure that this does not happen again. Although the buffer will continue to grow next year with these prospects, now would have been the opportune time to increase it even further. We are living in a time when unemployment has fallen and new jobs have actually been created. It has been a pleasure to note that we are in a positive structural change as part of south-west Finland, but at the same time it is estimated that after Venator, when the company closes its operations, nearly 700 unemployed Satakunta will come with such caution with their subcontracting chains. These funds and the flexibility to use them in different situations should be developed in the future, but the key message now is that we need to increase buffers and not dismantle them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u66	Mr President! Now that we are talking about the proposal by hundreds of millions of governments, it would certainly have been good if the corresponding minister had opened this up a little for Parliament. It's not a small matter. However, Minister Mattila was still present, and his name was also on the list of speakers. That in the sense that it would be important for ministers to open up even hundreds of millions of proposals here in Parliament. Mr President! As a result of this reduction in contributions, employers' side costs will be reduced even more than was already agreed upon, and this will be costly in the long term. On the other hand, the reduction in employees' contributions was a gift tomorrow to the government, which had promised a great deal of new tax reductions in order to cover up the responsibilities it had transferred from employers to employees in the kiky agreement. This did not have to be done when this was done after the vote. Well, of course it fits well in the government's line with this decision to make a transfer of unemployment insurance contributions to companies in the same way as in the Kiky agreement. But, in economic policy terms, this is an incomprehensible decision. At the peak of the high tide, if, as a result, we had to increase the buffers for worse days, so that there would be, unfortunately, the next recession — which is likely to come up against — the possibility of these buffers taking care of unemployment benefits. Between 2014 and 2016, when the unemployment situation was worse than at present, these buffers actually ran out and the balance sheet of the Unemployment Insurance Fund was negative. And it has also been necessary to increase these charges during the recession in order to meet the obligations which are also counterproductive in the context of economic policy. In other words, a decision is now being taken that does not raise funds for the recession at the top of the cycle, which may lead to a reduction in purchasing power and in the ability of companies to act by raising these charges again. That is why I do not think that this proposal makes any sense at all. After all, there was a rather tough vote on it and, as a result of a rather heavy lobbying and pressure, it seemed from the government that such a proposal was brought to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u67	Mr President! The Government proposes to reduce the total amount of unemployment insurance contributions by a total of 0.8 percentage points, sharing the average reduction equally between employees and employers. But equality is apparent. In the case of employees, it is a question of compensation for the corresponding increase in the earnings-related pension contribution agreed in the competitiveness agreement. On the other hand, both the change in the pension contribution in the kiky agreement for employers and the change in the unemployment insurance contribution now being made go in the same direction, i.e. net savings in wage costs will be considerable. Of course, the market, including the labour market, does not play a zero-sum game. Employees benefit from a reduction in employers' contributions, either in the form of an increase in their pay reserves or through an increase in employment. From the point of view of structural policy, reducing the tax wedge on labour is all right. However, tax and payment policy is not just a structural policy. The fiscal stance is also an essential issue. In this respect, the government proposal should be reconsidered. Both domestic and international economic forecasts anticipate a growing national product for next year. A slowdown is expected, but a weak year is not foreseen compared to a long-term growth path. It would therefore have been appropriate to leave room for manoeuvre at a later stage. Mr President! Unemployment insurance contributions are explicitly cyclical buffers at their best. If the economic cycle deteriorates, the reduction in contributions will allow keeping the workforce on the payroll. The buffers collected ensure that the basis for the income of those who become unemployed has been secured. When the system was built in its present form, we were quite proud in Finland that we were prepared for unemployment shocks. However, the system will not function as planned if its basic principles are not adhered to. We're supposed to be putting together buffers next year. The threat of international trade wars means that the risks of economic forecasts will be negative in the coming years. So, Mr President, I fear that this proposal is based solely on an image policy. The aim is to hide the central government deficit by placing tax reductions in social security funds,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u68	Mr President! As has been said in a number of good speeches, there is no head or tail in the economic policy of this country. It is absolutely impossible to justify this precisely from a cyclical point of view. At the time of the recession in Finland, fiscal policy was drastically tightened and even laughed at those who spoke out in favour of a revitalising economic policy. What will be done in Finland when the economic boom comes and the boom is taking place? It is then that the line is loosened and, in practice, this social security fund is used to revitalise the policy, rather than collecting bulldozers for a bad day. And, yes, I am looking in that direction. For example, in the last parliamentary elections there was quite a great deal of in-depth debate on this cyclical policy and on what kind of policy should be taken in which context. So the question is whether, in the opinion of the people of the Coalition Party, this is now a sensible spending of money in the economic situation in which Finland is currently living. I also agree with the previous speakers that the Minister should also have been there to answer the criticisms and these questions which now arise. In other words, only in Finland, where economic growth is expected to halve as early as next year and beyond, buffers will be used, in the midst of the economic boom, above all to revive employers in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u69	Mr President! Already economic scholars say that the upturn is slowly coming to an end. We may go to a flat ground, and then gradually come down again, just as these up-and-down spending on the economy goes. In this situation, where we are now in this country — and because of the things we have been talking about today, about how we have been cut off — there is no room for index increases or the like, and now we are cutting the unemployment insurance premium and not ensuring that, unfortunately, when the recession comes from there, and I am sure that unemployment will increase, we could afford a buffer to deal with that situation. This hall has a responsibility to people living even after that recession, when this high economic cycle is no longer as tough as it is now. God forbid, I wish it would remain this way and grow, but I know — as you know — that this will not be the case. Just a few words about that peck. I have to say, I still don't understand. I still do not understand how it helps to export Wärtsilä by cutting off the summer vacation allowances from the X-ray nurse at Vaasa Central Hospital. That's what I can't understand. And I do not understand how it helps to export ABB if Parliament officials do six minutes longer every day. I could understand if this extension of working time were there in Wärtsilä or if this salary cut was there for ABB. But guess what? Then they wouldn't have been made. It's a sure thing. It's easy to hit a spot where you don't protest. It's easy to hit a spot where there are low-paid women at work. When you don't dare say or give help, let's go in your pocket and take the money. That's the way it is. When I look at the box on the right — looking at me on the right, looking at the President on the left — the ministerial box, I must say that it speaks a harsh language about how this government views unemployment and the affairs of the unemployed and also the interests of those people who are not doing as well as the people who are sitting in this Chamber, even when the hall is full.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u70	Mr President! It is seen here that there are many ways to make imaginary politics. If we look at the current state of this proposal, I will read directly in this explanatory memorandum of the Government’s proposal: ‘The unemployment insurance contributions of employees and employers areaccounted for to the Employment Fund, which is responsible for the benefits and benefits financed by unemployment insurance contributions. The unemployment fund accounts for 5.5 per cent of each earnings-related daily allowance.’ — So only 5.5%. We in Finland have the right to belong to any association. It is therefore also justified that Finns have the right to belong to a trade union movement, for example. And here we are talking about raising bulldozers, I look a little toward the Ay movement, that in what way do they grow bulldozers. At the moment, the assets of the ten largest Ay movements are about one billion, if I do not remember correctly. How have they handled their affairs now during the high season? I considered the annual salary of the CEO of the private unemployment fund to be between 150000 and 160,000, and when I look at the annual salaries and fees of the presidents of the ay shops, the average salary is about 250,000. By comparison: the Prime Minister’s salary is about 160,000, the Minister of Finance’s salary is 146,000, and if the President of the Republic were to pay a tax, the equivalent would be about 250,000. Now that we are talking about image policy, it may be good to see from both sides of the medal that what this looks like.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u71	Mr President! Congressman Östman, you have to know if there is a coin in your hand that then half is equal to each other. Mr Östman, the chairman of the trade union movement is not the president of the unemployment fund. For the sake of comparison, you can check the salaries of the presidents of the unemployment funds compared to the salary of the head of the unemployment fund, and you may then be in the same job description to compare those salaries. That's exactly what I'm saying, comradely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u72	I believe that this coin will stand a comparison. After all, all these taxable income can be found publicly in the last established taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u73	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The same representatives and the same political groups who, in the previous paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, were firmly opposed to the government's current savings in the freezing of indices, which are therefore cuts, just as Mr Eestilä said in his honest way, now blame the government for the excessive reduction in the unemployment insurance premium and not higher than the unemployment insurance premium by holding aside for future bad times, say that, in this sense, there would be a need for fiscal buffers. That's right. There would be a need for fiscal buffers, and there would also be a need for buffers for central government finances, which are part of public finances. But now that you are looking for these bulldozers for public finances and you are criticising the excessive reduction in the unemployment insurance premium, you are doing exactly the opposite of what you did in the previous paragraph. At the last point in the order of business, you opposed the savings proposed by the government, and you have opposed all the savings proposed by the government virtually. In other words, in your opinion, there is no need to seek a better economic situation for public finances. As far as public finances are concerned, you will not accept any savings, even though this year, and next year, when the economic boom is apparently at hand, the state will, according to current estimates, be in debt of around EUR 1.4 billion. The fact that unemployment insurance contributions are being reduced is because the employment situation in this country has dramatically improved. When the previous government, led by the Prime Minister of the United States, including the Demols and the Left Alliance and the Greens, ended its activities, the number of unemployed people had increased by about 100 000 during the reign. During this government, the Sipilä government, in which Petteri Orpo, a member of the Coalition Party, is working strongly as Minister of Finance, has increased the number of people employed by over 100 thousand. More than 100,000 people work than when the government started. This increase in employment is the reason why the unemployment insurance contribution has been reduced. That is not an image policy. It's a real development. It's a real development. And the fruits of this government, the fruits of politics, the positive fruits, they are good enough for you. Of course, I am not saying that it would be thanks to this government alone that employment increases during this term of government. Of course not. It would be unwise to claim that any improvement in employment in Finland during this government term would be thanks to the government's actions. But it would be just as unintelligent to say — and I do not know whether any of you want to claim it — that government policy, government economic policy, including that slandered kiky agreement, would have nothing to do with this increase in employment. As far as this kiky agreement is concerned, Mr Tolppanen was exceptionally right when he said that it was possible for those low-paid women-dominated sectors to extend their working hours a little, but that this extension of working time would not have been — that is more substantial, that is what I understood — for those Wärtsilä or ABB employees. That is exactly what this is about, Mr Tolppanen. Originally, when kiky was made, then with a slightly different name, the government offered everyone a more substantial extension of working time, a more substantial extension of working time. However, it was the strong trade unions, often male-dominated, better-paid trade unions, that were in dire opposition to the extension of working time by what the government proposed. And the result was that, for everyone, there was a ridiculously little extension of working time and, as part of this kiky agreement, the public sector holiday money was also being cut on a fixed-term basis. These are difficult to explain to that nurse at Vaasa Central Hospital, I have no doubt about it. But it's a whole thing. It is about the fact that the government initially did not propose any cut in the holiday allowance or that it would only target public sector workers. On the contrary, the government proposed a more substantial extension of working time, which would have meant that more work would have been done without pinching earnings. In practice, it was the final outcome of the negotiations between the trade unions and the social partners, that holiday payments had to be cut and that this cut really only targeted the public sector, although it was done on time. If I had been allowed to decide, of course, these holiday money, if it had been necessary to cut it, would have been cut off from everyone, including those Wärtsilä and ABB employees, all of them. And if this had been done, those in Finland who receive the highest wages, who are not in the public sector, would have been subject to this holiday allowance cut, unlike those who have now. As far as this kiky agreement is concerned, it is incomprehensible that it was in the context of the A-Talk programme last Thursday when an insert was presented in which a Social Democratic Municipal politician, a representative of the truckers, said that there has never been such a bad government in the past. Wait a minute. Was it better for the last government to do a job, making 100,000 more unemployed workers? During that period, then, there were 100,000 more unemployed workers, and during this reign there have been more than 100,000 more employed workers, so is this government, during which employment has improved more than in a long time, a worse government for the workers? I can't believe what you're saying. — And now that the President also draws attention to the fact that the length of my speech is beginning to run out, and when I agree with him, I shall end there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, almost the same representatives have asked for an answer as this is the actual list of speakers, and that is why we are going to go to the list of speakers. Mr Arhimäki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u75	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz's speech was vehement when he said that this increase in employment was not so much the result of government action as the global economy. For the same reason, the number of people employed in the government led by the Coalition Party decreased because the world economy was so important to us and so important to the export industry, and for the same reason, even though the Minister of Finance, Katainen, said that the financial crisis would not affect Finland — from here he, then Chairman of the Coalition Party, Minister of Finance Katainen, said that this financial crisis would not hit Finland so badly — the deepest drop of more than 8% of GDP came during the previous bourgeois government. But I do understand that it was not the bourgeois government, but the global financial crisis, and I equally understand that now the rise in the economy and the increase in jobs are, above all, the result of the global economy and the European economy, whose bet has now drawn on the Finnish economy. That is also the view of economists, professors, economists who have been asked. They have also paid tribute to the government and have said that the government has not succeeded in at least making this appeal to the international economy. Mr President! As far as the competitiveness pact is concerned, this government proposal is also an extension of the competitiveness agreement. Congressman Zyskowicz said that if he had been allowed to decide, everyone's holiday money would have been cut. If the left-wing union had been allowed to decide, and as the Left-wing Alliance voted and acted here, he said that the Kiki agreement should not be concluded, no one — nobody — would have had the holiday money cut. Why is holiday money being cut on the public side? In view of the fact that this Parliament approved changes in payments — changes in payments so that employees' contributions were increased, which had to be offset by tax reductions, and, accordingly, employers' contributions were reduced. This gap in the national economy had to be bridged by the fact that it was the public sector workers' holiday payments that were being cut because it had an impact on public finances, and these holiday allowance cuts were then taken away from the municipalities, among other things. In other words, those who were in favour of changes in payments here were also indirectly in favour of holiday payments cuts, which were part of the kiky agreement, which the government forced through by threatening trade union governments, governments of central organisations, saying that forced laws will come if you do not accept cuts in the competitiveness pact. The Competitiveness Pact was a transfer from ordinary hard-working and middle-income, low- and medium-paid people to the export industry, whose profits are then distributed as dividends. So the day - care teachers, the nurses, the policemen who have now been cut off on holiday money, have been involved in ensuring that companies can distribute even greater dividends to their owners. Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz compared the fact that in the previous paragraph, in which we opposed cutting the basic security of the low-income ones with index freezes, we were not interested in central government finances but are now interested in central government finances. We have been interested in government finances at every point. It's about value choices. This government has made tax reductions of EUR 1500 million — EUR 1500 million — at the same time as the basic security has been cut by EUR 300 million. In our opinion, it is a false choice of values. When the Prime Minister Sipilä spoke of the means in which everyone should participate, so the most high - incomed, well - incomed ones have not taken part. Tax reductions have been distributed to them and, at the same time, they have been cut from the lowest incomes. We have been of the opinion that the lowest-income, basic security, national pensioners, labour market support and unemployment benefit should not be cut, rather a little more sparingly tax cuts are being distributed. Mr President! This would be a sustainable policy, both socially sustainable and economically sustainable. Instead, with this proposal, the government will continue to pursue an unsustainable policy from a cyclical point of view, a policy that is unsustainable from the point of view of central government, in which the opportunities for the coming years will already be eaten up in advance by redistributing more opportunities for companies, employers and their owners after the kiky agreement. This change in payment does not help workers, it merely compensates for the cuts made by the kiky agreement with workers. On the other hand, employers will receive a bonus on top of the kiky agreement. If you are interested in central government finances, if you are interested in people's decent livelihoods, if you are interested in working well, you can afford to do something with the family on holiday, then you should choose those parties that want to hold on to good finances and those parties that were not prepared to accept holiday allowance cuts and a competitiveness pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u76	Mr President! However, when talking about unemployment insurance contributions, it may be good to remember that unemployment insurance contributions primarily finance earnings-related unemployment benefits. When we know what has been done during this reign, earnings-related unemployment benefit has been drastically cut, this may be a continuation of it. But if now the government is unable to keep the jobs it has built itself, if it still happens that the world economy is swinging small Finland and we are going to have a recession, then where are we going to pay for even a short period of earnings? It is inconceivable in this country to cut earnings in that way and at the same time invent all the world's active models that cut people off even if they want to go to work, even if they have skills, even if they have training, but when there is no job in their own place or where there are no training opportunities. This is such a cold policy that I am already cold when I talk about it. Sincerely, I must say that I am truly sorry, Mr Zyskowicz, that your word will not be listened to in the assembly. You often speak good words, you often speak wise words, such as, for example, that now that they were operated on, they should also have been cut off from the private side, even from those with good merit, should have been cut off from business leaders, among others. That is something I warmly support. There would have been money out there because there's a lot of money in there. I understand that the government takes from the poor because there are many poor people, almost one-fifth of the people are poor. When you take the euro or 10 euros from each of you, or actually what has now been taken up in these cuts, 300 euros, it will be quite a lot when they are added together. But unfortunately, at some point, when that horse learns not to eat, it dies if it gets nothing more. As far as Kiki is concerned, I think we can honestly remember how it turned out. Kiki was the result of forced laws. It would have been a lot harder if the kiwi had not been made. Nevertheless, I believe that it was a very outrageous move to deprive the low-paid sectors of their summer holiday allowances. It was money that allowed many families to have one and only week together with the family — father, mother, children, mother, children, and children — one week together was guaranteed, but the surgery took them away. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u77	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz said in his own speech that payments would be reduced as the employment situation would improve. This was, therefore, his response to criticism in relation to the cyclical effects of these decisions. This line would mean that when there is a good cyclical situation and a good employment situation, then payments will be reduced, and accordingly, when the economic situation is weak, the employment situation will be poor, then payments will have to be increased, which is the worst possible solution in the current economic situation. So this is the line of the coalition that it is seen that such a countercyclical fiscal policy is justified in this regard? Here, as I said, I do not think there is a head or a tail. The real answer to the question as to why it was now decided to reduce payments is that: The unemployment insurance fund was needed to save Petteri Orpo, who had already said before the budget argument that taxes should have been reduced by another 300 million dollars. However, the line of constant reductions in taxation in favour of high incomes at the same time as cutting the basic security of low incomes became unsustainable for other government parties, so it was convenient to transfer responsibility to the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Mr Zyskowicz also spoke about this extension of working time, which was agreed upon in connection with kiky. I would now like to take note of the fact that working time was not only extended in the public sector: although the methods of implementation varied from one sector to another, there was also an extension of working time in the male-dominated sectors. Instead, it was only in the public sector that the cut in holiday money was made, and that is where the government would have had every opportunity to intervene and prevent it by allocating money to the municipalities, which they would have needed to cancel the cut. Finally, Mr Zyskowicz also lost sight of the general fiscal policy line and individual decisions on the distribution of income within the budgetary framework. The previous government pursued a more tense fiscal policy than this government, but nevertheless managed to maintain a sufficient level of basic security at least somewhat. This government has therefore pursued a more lax fiscal policy and has used this economic policy margin to reduce taxes to nearly EUR 2 billion in favour of the most well-off income while maintaining these cuts in the income of the lowest-incomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u78	Mr President! Yes, the Coalition Party is doing something about its own economics when it makes a reverse cyclical policy and calls it responsible. In other words, all the experts believe that if we want to ensure that the economic conditions are as well controlled as possible, then when difficult times are involved, we would prefer to reduce payments in order to maintain employment despite a difficult period of time and, when good times are there, to increase buffers, and then it makes no sense to reduce unemployment insurance contributions. The government is doing the opposite right now, for some reason, and that is probably precisely what Mr Andersson said: that since the chairman of the coalition, Mr Orpo, went to promise further tax cuts for high incomes and other government parties did not agree to it, it was then taken out of insurance premiums. This is an irresponsible policy. When this is combined with the government's overall view that the economy now has better times: we are all pleased that employment has risen. It may be that the government has done something about it. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] But it must now be noted that once the economic situation is like this, where is the room for manoeuvre given? Is the government now investing in education, combating inequality, improving the position of low-income people, in the population groups from which the government cut quite unduly a few years ago? No, the government continues the index cuts for higher education institutions. The Government will continue the index cuts for low incomes, those on basic security, and will increase tax reductions for high incomes through this reduction in contributions agreed with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u79	Mr Kurvinen, we have just agreed that, when there are only a few representatives here to discuss, we will go to the actual speeches. I tried to show you. — Mr Tuppurainen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u80	Thank you, Mr President. And Mr Kurvinen is welcome to ask for the floor and to take part in this debate. — President, timing is important in politics, and timing is particularly important in economic policy. In general, economics are based on the fact that, when it comes to the economic cycle, money will be raised for the future, prepared for a future downturn, so that, when the capitalist system inevitably comes sooner or later, public funds can be used and revived if necessary. This is usually the way it is. I listened with great enthusiasm to Mr Zyskowicz's speech, which he used with dignity from that valuable point of view, when he described the logic of economic policy in the context of the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions, so that right now we need to reduce employment. That is, indeed, Mr Zyskowicz, quite contrary to the general economic doctrine that we have already learned in those basic economic courses: according to this idea of the Keynesian, it is precisely in the upturn that those buffers should be collected and not distributed, as you just explained in that regard. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u81	Mr President! As far as the general fiscal stance is concerned, and when the experts have been called upon, I understand that at least a large majority of experts have felt — if not unanimously — that the basic fiscal stance of the government is appropriate and that the economic situation is correctly set. You in the opposition are very concerned about these budgetary buffers, but you are not at all interested in the state economy, which is therefore part of the public finances, but you believe that, in the best economic climate, the state will continue to take on debt — some EUR 1.5 billion next year — is obviously not a problem because you are opposed in practice to all the savings that the government has proposed. Of course you say yes, but these will then be patched up from Sitra's balance sheet and the huge revenues of the grey economy. It is such nonsense, but resisting savings is a real hard thing. Representative Arhinmäki, I said on holiday money that if there was a need to cut holiday money, then we should have cut holiday money from everyone and not just from the public sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u84	The list will continue with the representatives of Heinäluoma and Kurvinen, and then we will see if there is any cause for such a rapid one-minute debatation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u85	Mr President! Yes, this debate on the economic cycle and preparations for a future bad time are in order and in this context in particular. Mr Tuppurainen referred here to Keynes and to good economic principles, but in fact this idea goes even further than that of Keynes. This goes to the Bible, seven fat and seven thin years. Throughout the centuries, it has been the wisdom to know some of the results of good times to stand aside in bad times. It is clear that it takes a little while to put aside to refuse to put everything behind us. I understand that it is very difficult for the Assembly to refuse any tax reduction. So the coalition has been built in such a way that there is no such tax reduction as the coalition would feel that it comes at a bad time or would otherwise be unacceptable. The only exception here is the current President, Sauli Niinistö, who, at the end of the first cabinet of Lipponen at his time, once left the inflation checks on taxes in the highest income category in half force.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u88	Mr President! The draft law under discussion is part of the 2019 budget, which as a whole is a very balanced whole. I can't help but mention when all kinds of accusations have been thrown here about forgetting the jobs and when, despite the difficult economic period, many decisions have been made in the budget, which will make the situation easier for the most vulnerable Finns: EUR 80 for Kela's lowest daily allowance, sickness allowance, rehabilitation allowance, etc. will come next year. [Requests for reply] During the last parliamentary term, when the red-green group was on the board, you did raise unemployment benefit, but apparently people on other Kela benefits are not as valuable as those who did not need to be raised. Among other things, representatives of Arhinmäki and Niinistö were members of the Government during the last period. Mr President! There has also been an argument here in the debate that the rise in the economy in the current parliamentary term would be entirely due to the reversal of the global economy. The world economy has been doing better in this parliamentary term, but otherwise it went well last season: Europe rose, our main competitor, Sweden, Germany did very well, but Europe had two losers in economic terms: Greece and Finland. Now that situation has changed. For some reason during the last parliamentary term, Finland did not catch up with the rise in the world economy, but it has. Then, of course, one might wonder whether it is just a coincidence or whether the economic policy of the Sipilä government has something to do with it. Well, at least you can say it hasn't stood in the way. Perhaps during the last parliamentary term there was a problem with the politics of the Red Red Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, quite a few rose up just now but did not press the V button on the reply procedure. I would now like to ask the representatives who wish to make a reply once again to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u90	Mr President! Just as Mr Kurvinen said, I was a member of the Government last season. At that time the Government made greater adjustments than the present government. At the same time, poverty decreased, income differentials narrowed, basic security was already made at the beginning of the government term
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u93	Mr President! It is customary here to go to history writing often when there are not enough grounds for explaining current policies. But the role of history does not in any way remove the fact that we now have a budget proposal for next year to be evaluated. And quite a few citizens ask how, in the midst of economic growth, as well-being increases, many Finns have a government that cuts basic security. This is the first government to cut basic security during the present constitutional period, perhaps even for a longer time. Not even Esko Aho's government did this. It's hard to explain, isn't it? I do not know whether it is difficult to explain in the downtown house nights, but at least at Hakaniemi market, this cannot be explained by the reason why basic security is being cut now when money comes into the economy. And this is what the center is responsible for in a gloomy budget
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u94	Mr President! I would see that now we need to think about a longer-term perspective, how we will ensure that the Finns stay together in the future and that we do not cut back on the things that are building the future for our young people, and that we think about economic policy in such a way that it does not leave the different genders and the low incomes aside. From this point of view, although the government has clearly succeeded in the question of cost competitiveness, it is true, it has done it in a way that has been rather cruel to those who have not been able to do so now. In other words, education has been cut a lot, basic security has been cut continuously and the basic security cuts continue, even though the economic situation has improved. Then the cyclical policy will be pursued in such a reverse way that taxes will continue to be reduced for high incomes or a reduction in insurance premiums in a situation where low incomes will not even be given the same level of income. After all, this is very unfair. The fact that the cost competitiveness gap has been addressed does not remedy the fact that it has been done in an extremely unfair way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, in the time window I have just granted, Mr Andersson and Mr Viitanen have asked for a reply. These I'll admit, then we'll move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u96	Mr President! Without answering the question, the opposition has here tried to get answers from the government as to why it is justified to reduce these charges at the peak of the economic cycle, which is likely to lead to an increase in them in the recession. In fact, this question relates to Mr Kurvise's question as to why Finland did not get involved in this growth of the world economy as quickly as many other countries in Europe. My own view is that during the previous parliamentary term it is very likely that too tight fiscal policy was taken. In other words, the general fiscal stance at the time was overly tense in relation to what would have been needed in the recession. As Mr Arhinmäki said, this government is less adaptable than the previous government. So now that the rise has begun, this fiscal stance will be relaxed, spending nearly 2 billion dollars on tax cuts that favour high incomes, and when money is spent on high incomes, it certainly will not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u97	My last response to this debate, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u98	Mr President! Just now, Mr Heinäluoma was right to ask whether it would be easy to explain these cuts in basic security in the city centre, which are completely historic when the centre is the Prime Minister's party. I say that, obviously, it is a little difficult there, namely that the centre speaks the other way around at night. I have spent so many weekends wondering about many of the speech references that come from the representatives of the centre and which are genuinely concerned that we now need measures to combat poverty, inequality, we need strong measures to reduce pensioner poverty. That's what they're talking about at the house. When you come here and your finger goes to the button when you press it, you press the button for the operation. Mr Kurvinen, just a moment ago we were talking in this Chamber about the fact that pensions are being cut here, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u101	Mr President! I shall now return to the subject under discussion, namely the reduction of these unemployment insurance contributions. In the light of this debate, it has therefore become clear that the co-operative fiscal policy line is that, in good times, the buffers of unemployment benefit funds are being emptied, which then leads to the situation, as we do. In Finland, too, we have seen that in a difficult economic situation, in a recession, these payments are forced to be increased, even though this is the opposite of what should be done in economic policy terms. Mr Zyskowicz here spoke of a general fiscal stance and it is true that there has not been such a great deal of disagreement over the general stance during this parliamentary term. True, many experts now say that it would also be justified to pursue a more tense fiscal policy than the government does. On the other hand, there has been a great deal of disagreement about how the government uses this margin for economic policy when the government has put these large tax reductions, which favour the high incomes, which are not justified from the point of view of purchasing power, ahead of vital future investment for Finland and care for the livelihoods of the low-income. This has been the big line of economic policy during this reign. Let me say to Mr Kurvise, who clearly did not get involved in this recent debate on the livelihood of low-income earners, that through index freezes this government, purely through index freezes, has cut 300 million out of all the lowest-income Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u104	Mr President! Indeed, the government has cut a total of more than half a billion euros from the basic security and social security of low incomes, and many of these are repeated over a number of years. There may be cuts in celiac disease and diabetes payments, various increases in healthcare fees and then a reduction in basic low income security. For low-income pensioners, these cuts have been pretty tough. The fact that the government now sees that, in this economic situation, it is still the right place to put hundreds of millions of euros into tax cuts for high-income earners through the reduction of this premium is simply a very bad economic policy and forget about the groups of people that the government has already cut off a lot. Even in this situation, we are not prepared to improve their situation, but the cuts in basic security continue. It is really a tough choice of values and a tough policy from the government. Now that we have been dealing with this situation over the last two parliamentary years, I myself believe that during the last term of government, the general stance of fiscal policy was perhaps a little too tight to allow Finland to join the rise in the global economy. Significantly, for example, in the construction sector, growth began at the start of the big stimulus package in the Stubb government, and the rise in construction began at the beginning of this reign and at the end of the Stubb government at the start of the attack. That the government certainly did something to boost growth, but before that, the overall fiscal stance was perhaps a little too tight. There should have been more long-term structural reforms, but short-term cuts had to be made — and that was also the choice of the majority. Tight fiscal policies were made when we were in a cyclical pit. Now we are getting into a better cyclical situation, and what is the Coalition Party doing? Involves a loose economic policy, especially in relation to the taxation of high incomes. You do exactly the opposite of what the experts generally advise you on what to do. If you are thinking about the impact of the Kiki agreement, then I too believe in the ex post report that Finland’s cost competitiveness has improved in relation to the control countries, and it has been surprisingly important for our export industry, and it has certainly helped our economic growth. But, in fact, it has had a greater impact on the fact that many rival countries raised the pay level quite a bit — Germany, Sweden — and it became that position in relative terms. That our wage moderation and this improvement in competitiveness helped. But the clear crumbling effect of the Kiki deal was what I'll tell you when I get to the podium. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! The crumbling effect of the Kiki agreement, which has just been unfairly cut off from certain groups of people and from certain professional groups, was the moral and working capacity-depleting effect of the working community on public, low-paid, female-dominated sectors. A number of teachers and nurses have told me when I have been around Finnish day care centres and schools and health centres, that it was hard to carry on the fact that it was already felt that there was a really hard workload, too few hands in health care for patients or teaching students in schools. This came on top of the fact that you are being cut a little more than others, and that was not right, Mr Zyskowicz. If we had wanted to do this in a business-wise way, it would have been worth carrying out a fiscal devaluation, which would have just carried out the premiums reductions that were now being made, and subsequently recovered as taxes when the cycle is in good shape, as it is now. What do we do now? The reduction in premiums will now continue in a situation where the economic cycle is in good condition. So in several places the government has made decisions that always forget those low-income, disadvantaged people, so that their situation is not improved at any point in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u105	The hour limit for this item has already been exceeded, so the debate and the debate will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u106	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u107	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u108	Madam President! Perhaps the biggest and most important line of the Government's proposal under discussion is that, in line with the Ministry of the Interior's policy, the Crisis Management Centre will move from Kuopio to the Rescue College to Helsinki. Mr President! This solution is yet another example of how Finland, unfortunately, is moving in a different direction from what the European and Nordic lines are. We are increasingly trying to concentrate and put all the government departments in one place. The offices are also being cut geographically, and the national government services do not seem to be suitable for anything other than the capital region. The problem with Finland's way of organising our administration is that in practice, individual ministers and ministries exercise complete power to determine for themselves, without the government's guidelines, where government services, jobs and agencies will be established and where they will be abolished in Finland. Unfortunately, every time we have to make savings, every state-owned silo — whether it is the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Justice, etc. — the only solution that the administration offers is to reduce and concentrate on one large unit where even the costs of the premises may rise and where savings may be quickly eaten away. Unfortunately, in some ministries this is also done in a blurry manner, apparently on very ideological grounds. At the moment, it seems to the officials that it is not even possible, even in the regional capitals, even in the central cities with regional universities, to carry out any functions of service to the whole kingdom, not to mention smaller cities, so-called regional cities. This is not a question of lack of knowledge. If we look westward, across the bay: Sweden is dispersing state services and jobs across the kingdom. And here in the Republic we have a tube-like focus and no alternative other than the capital region is actually even considered. In fact, over the next few years, Sweden will be seeking up to thousands of jobs to regionalise across a large country. Mr President! A model example of this central government concentration is the latest line of the Minister of Justice that a new court office will be located in Vantaa. We have court rights all over Finland, we have several legal faculties, and I think, for example, Rovaniemi or Vaasa would have been very good places for a new court office. Vaasa would have been in favour of the language and Rovaniemi's big law school. This chapter is the transfer of the Crisis Management Centre from Kuop to Helsinki, which is being discussed today. For some reason, the Ministry of the Interior changed its position completely over the past six months on the previous line. This is not a very consistent administration. I believe that in the future — in the next parliamentary term — the location of central government agencies must be decided between the entire Government. This change, too, that the Crisis Management Centre is being transferred from Kuopio to Helsinki, has only been made internally by the Ministry of the Interior. It is not just a question of where an agency operates; it is also a question of people's services, development at national level and the multiplier effect of decisions, and tax revenues from cities and municipalities. Until now, digitalisation is justified mainly by the possibility of abolishing and concentrating individual units, reducing units and concentrating them on individual locations. In my opinion, this should go in a completely different direction, and when we have practically every opportunity at the moment in almost every Finnish village and municipality to have the most efficient internet connections, it would be possible to run the administration from the lake shore or from the lake shore or from the laketop. And I agree with the Central Administrative Committee group already in 2016 that when the state recruits new employees for ministries and other expert tasks, these employees should be given the freedom to choose their own location. Every time a new recruitment is carried out, there should be an opportunity for the person to decide for himself what he or she is working for. It is a possible vision with existing digital opportunities. Mr President! Man is most productive in an environment that he feels is his own, and not all people — even though one might sometimes imagine otherwise from Twitter’s elite conversation — want to pack up in the largest cities. Why do we not give freedom of choice, choice to government officials and workers? This could also reduce the costs of premises.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u109	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kurvis for his excellent and far-sighted speech on regionalisation and the development of Finland as a whole. That is exactly how you should act in accordance with those general principles, which Mr Kurvinen wrote down in the parliamentary minutes above. My speech is actually quite critical of the overall picture, given the whole crisis management centre issue. Mr President! Just as an introduction to this whole, I would like to say that the dictator, Josef Stalin, had a very strange legal policy that does not fit in with Western justice at least: ‘It is a crime-sustaining invention of good science. “
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u112	Mr President! Regionalisation issues and balanced regional development are really an important part of Finland's success today and in the future. Now, however, the debate is a little confusing in that we have heard a very harsh criticism of the decision-making of the government by Mr Ross last time, and we have to say that we have not heard the first reason for making this decision in this Chamber. We have heard these duubios on the subject. Well, then, at the same time you will have to ask whether this is now a big hand wash in the city centre due to this decision. I think it is clear that this issue would have been in the hands of the whole government if the Prime Minister had been in favour of bringing it to the Government and taking a position on it. I cannot believe that this has passed without the Prime Minister being aware of this, especially since it has this stage of preparation and this coordination group for regionalisation is under the authority of the Prime Minister. The fact that there has been no desire to open up the grounds for this decision also points to this, and I am therefore surprised that the Minister is: The mute isn't here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u117	Mr President! Do you want to dig up newspaper writings or not? That's another thing. I, too, would like to have had a debate on this, and indeed I would have liked to have had a minister. Mykkänen would have been here in front of Parliament to put forward those arguments as well as to record them in the parliamentary minutes. I agree with you on this point. Whether this is, among other things, the handwashing of the centre: at least I do not have to wash my hands in any direction. A very broad opinion of the MPs has also been shared with the government as a whole. The central ministers have not been in favour of this project. This is a government proposal, it must be said yes, but this culture of government seems to lead to the autonomy of an individual minister and ministry leading to things moving forward, even if it is not supported by the whole government on the basis of the depths of its soul. As far as Savonlinna is concerned, I also think of Kemijärvi, Kajaani, Heinola — once all have been sad examples.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u118	Do we want to start a debate on this? I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u119	Madam Speaker! Just a brief comment on Mr Ross's otherwise very pertinent speech. I am sure I agree with that myself. But then the way in which it is done in the government — if that is the case that the ministers in the centre do not want this. Yes, we still have an administrative culture in Finland, that when you act in the same government, then you negotiate until agreement is reached. This was done at least during the last term of government. Despite the fact that the KD was the smallest group in the government at the time, we were always able to fight things or take things forward, and the government partners respected it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u121	Mr President! This is a very confusing situation, that there is a government bill here, which has been approved by the whole government, and then it turns out that there are — I do not know whether the whole group is against it — at least important parliamentarians who are against it. And there are no arguments that have been given from the floor of the House on this issue as to why this decision has been taken. It's a confusing thing. But I would like to return to the fact that we have other things that would be worth being enlightened when these decisions are taken. This Savonlinna is a case that was taken into a kind of study report that what to do is not to get into this situation again. It seems that there has been a liquidator and paper has come, but has there been any lessons? I will stay and ask whether anything has been learned, and I am afraid that nothing has been learned, but that this will continue as it has been, that the wheels will rotate and then only this question will be asked, who will be given political responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u122	Madam President! I think Mr Heinäluoma has used very good speeches here when he takes away the political and political color of this kind. The reason for this is that we have had, for a long time, at least 20 years — I have been young and inexperienced and I have managed to get the earmarks dried up, and more experienced people can tell us for how long — the culture that the minister is allowed to do whatever he wants in his own administration. I think he's already been one of Vanhanen's first governments, anyway. Sometimes a minister can take the papers for himself and the matter will be transferred to the Council of State during the week. This culture has led each ministry to develop its site network itself. The overall impact is precisely this partial optimization, which I am very concerned about in the same way as Mr Heinäluoma. This is precisely the problem that one silo saves costs for another silo. The whole is such a well, let me say, an old Eastern bloc-type administrative culture, not a Nordic or European culture. I repeat my demand that in future we should:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u123	Madam President! I have to say, the center isn't what it used to be. Yes, he has noticed that not with this The Sipilä Government finds room for regional policy solutions. We have many examples of good regionalisations from the time of the Lipponen government when the Police Information Centre and Valtori were regionalised in Rovaniemi. Even during the Vanhanen Government, further efforts were made, including the regionalisation of the operations of the Finnish Transport Safety Agency, the Finnish Social and Health Administration and Tukes Mining Unit. Unfortunately, it is precisely the opposite of what is happening in the Sipilä period. Not only do we have this proposal, which is now at hand, that we are still focusing on Helsinki, but it is the Court of Justice, which Mr Kurvinen raised earlier in this debate, that the only thing that moved to Vantaa was that, even if we had had a lot of extensive expertise and good places to invest in the provinces, for example in Rovaniemi, the Court of Justice, the Faculty of Law and the various security authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u124	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma is certainly pushing me for the right line and the right thing to do if we cut out this party-political coloring which always wants to join them. Regionalisation, or de-regionalisation, has been about this kind of pipe administration lately without an overall view. That's the worst thing about this. Perhaps we will now find a better order when Minister Vehviläinen set up a two-person task force, Reina and Ikonen, to draw up such a plan for regionalisation of the future, the criteria for regionalisation — the uniform criteria for regionalisation. The work will be completed early next year, and hopefully the new government of the country, whatever it may be, will start looking at regional policy and regionalisation on a slightly better basis than has been the case in recent times. The régionalisation on the basis of the pipeline regime will only lead to confusion, as has now been seen. It must be coherent and preferably with the Government
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u125	Mr President! I welcome the fact that Mr Kääriäinen and Mr Kurvinen acknowledge that Mr Heinäluomaa has here had good views and genuine concern about this regionalisation issue and many others. But I could also say as a comfort that there is not a single colour of opposition policy here, because just yesterday we have published the most recent unanimous report by the Audit Committee on housing policy, which also continues this debate on Savonlinna. It is very serious to say unanimously that, among other things, this had serious consequences for the housing market. It was, in itself, a disaster in that area. But, Mr President, I am also very confused about this debate. It seems to me that, in a situation like this, there should be a minister present. It does not happen that the main government party is very critical here and the Minister does not give any justification for this move. This is the representative,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u126	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u127	Mr President! This crisis management centre decision: After all, what has been done will not be undone. All right, all right. Let's face it. I would like to remind you that Mr Heinäluoma was also making the decision to place it in Kuopio, the first board of Vanhanen, and that decision was a very well-founded, good decision at the time. Synergies were sought with the cooperation with the Rescue College. Well, it's history, and there's no point in rambling about it. You can't undo what's done. The transfer is about to take place. Well, that didn't go very well. As I said just now and as we said, these things should be decided within the framework of the entire Government. They're big decisions. They're line decisions. And here too, the regional coordination group rightly recommended that a decision be taken within the framework of the entire Government. However, this did not happen, which went badly. As Mrs Rossi has said here, although she has failed, this is not going to be a problem, because the rescue academy will then get, as it were — if you want to see this — transfers from here in Helsinki that way. I have already referred to the fact that the criteria for regionalisation are currently being examined in the two-person working group — Reina and Ikonen — and then there will probably be more solid, uniform criteria for how to deal with these issues in the future. Sweden is a good example: for a long time, the demos have led the country, and they are systematically regionalised in a bold way in the north of Sweden, away from Stockholm. It is a hard policy, a hard positive policy. May this also encourage Finland to look at things in a more balanced way than has happened in recent times. Here we are following the formation of a new government program back in the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u128	Madam President! There was wisdom, yes, at the end of what Mrs Kääriäinen said, that it would be wise to think about these things from a completely different perspective than it is today. I, President-in-Office, believe that this philosophy of regionalisation will certainly continue to be discussed in the coming times in this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u131	Mr Viitanen has proposed that the matter be put on the table on Tuesday 16.10. to the plenary session. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u132	Mr President! I would, of course, like to be there to ensure that Minister Mykkänen, as rapporteur, is present at that time. We don't know if his Tuesday calendar is in what condition, if he's in the country and so on. As far as I am concerned, we have a minister here to answer and answer, among other things, the question of why he did not take the matter to the General Session of the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u133	In this context, we must now decide on the date. The debate on the table is closed. There is one suggestion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u134	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 8/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u135	Madam President! The Government's proposal deals with changes in the area border of the FAQ National Park. It is intended that the 9.3 hectares, the area of Tankavaara, should be separated and 198 hectares should then be added. The background is that there is a need for construction in the region of Tankavaara, which would serve both tourism, enterprise and the interests of the municipality, and it is not possible to build in the national park, and that is why a project of this kind has been launched. The performance has been launched by Metsähallitus, and Metsähallitus has, of course, discussed with the municipality of Sodankylä and with entrepreneurs, and their view is that this is the way to proceed. The Committee on the Environment has dealt with this matter and the committee has consulted Metsähallitus, the municipality of Sodankylä and the Ministry of the Environment. The report is unanimous and very unproblematic. There is not much room for reproach on this question as such, or really no place for reproach. This serves the local economy, entrepreneurship and tourism. What I would like to speak about here concerns the status of national parks in general. We now have 40 national parks, and the number of visitors is on the rise. Last year alone, 2017, the number of visitors rose by 10 per cent. Unfortunately, Metsähallitus' money has not grown at the same rate since then, which is, of course, putting pressure on the fact that, when hectares increase, larger areas should be maintained with the same euros. There are problems with such things as longwoods, slabs, deserts and so on. It has now been added that this problem has been noted, but there has been a considerable amount of correction debt over the years, and we must see that it can be dealt with in the future. I myself, whenever these issues are dealt with, have wanted to raise the issue of deserted people, and this is also the case in the committee's report. The deserted must be kept in order, some have been dismantled, and perhaps less of them can be dismantled, but the network in general is such a unique phenomenon in the world, and they do not really exist elsewhere. The Alps have some practices and the same in Sweden and Norway, but they are mainly subject to a fee, and there is no waste house network based on this kind of free-of-charge. If we are talking about the UNESCO World Heritage List, this would be a very good place for it, or at least it is said that if everyman's rights are discussed, we could add to the selection criteria a network of desert houses. Now that we're making changes in the area, the acres are growing again. During the next government term, it may also be possible to consider whether there are additional needs to increase national parks. Perhaps the greatest need is for some of the existing national parks to be extended, and I understand that the best sites for this are marine national parks that exist in the Gulf of Finland, and there might be sites that could be expanded. In other words, the sum of summrum: the deserted must be maintained, the national parks must be maintained and, if expansions or additions are to be made, the already existing ones could be considered, especially during the next parliamentary term. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u136	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Metsähallitus and the Ministry of the Environment for bringing this matter forward with such a fast schedule. The essence of this is that the Tankavaara Guide Centre is already beginning to be in the repair phase and its number of visitors has decreased very much. Now we should think about what to do with that guidance centre and how to do it. There would be development and business activities around, but with the current system it will no longer be possible. And as has already been said, the state's money begins to decline and the state's money and the money that Metsähallitus spends on this cannot be used to the extent that it can actually develop its tourism activities in the region. It is therefore now necessary to transfer this guidance centre to the business world as soon as possible. Now it would take a few acres, eight to nine hectares, out of the UK Park. In itself, it does not matter when, at the same time, there is a really larger area of about 100 hectares coming to the UK Park, which means that the total area will increase, and I am sure that the value of protection will be considerably better off now. The economic significance of this is, in other words, it does not indicate that a target will be used by an entrepreneur or otherwise, and when it comes to money, it would be very good and important that this money should then also be used as an earmark for the development of this UK national park, when we also have a huge amount of repair debt in the UK park. The UK Park has a lot of tallwoods, abandoned cabins, garbage collection, routes and many such items that should be repaired and renovated, but there is not enough money for anything. In particular, on the Savukoski side, which by the way accounts for a significant part of the UK park area, these structures have now come to mind that what is being done there and has even begun to be completely dismantled. Now, hopefully, we'll get some of these fixed again. The UK Park has been compensated by this Tankavaara Guide Centre in the past. There have been many other areas of compensation — and such talk — in the past. These compensation issues have now been discussed very much year after year, especially on the Savukoski side. The Martti-Tulppio road is what has now been talked about throughout this UK park, and many no longer remember what it is, but as a compensation it had to be put in place, and it is still not done. The second thing I remember, as a smoke-smoker, is that jobs were promised there. We have been told that companies now have them, companies buy services, but at the moment there is no employee in Metsähallitus' nature services on the Savukoski side. So that's it. As a whole, then, I would like to raise these other national parks. Posio has been asked to establish a Korouoma National Park. I know the area and have really warmed up about turning it into a national park. The area is already well known for being the best and finest ice climbing site in Finland. The municipality of Posio and the tourist entrepreneurs in the region have presented and hoped that it would become a national park. On the whole, I do not see any obstacle to the fact that it really does not make sense to transfer it to national park status. Then I will mention this role of Metsähallitus in the development of tourism. Jarmo Ratia has made a report a few years ago on the role of Metsähallitus in these tourism issues in Lapland. It covered sales of countries for tourism activities, land rentals and the role of Metsähallitus anyway. These have not evolved from that situation at all, in my view. In other words, we should now have a strong open debate on what to do, because Metsähallitus would need a state ownership steering policy to make it a part, a significant part, of tourism in Lapland. It must not be a competitor, but it must not be a slowing down obstacle to the development of tourism in Lapland. Lapland tourism is one of the most important activities in how Lapland is developed. And we must also remember that the development of Finland has one of the most important roles in Lapland tourism. Mr President! When the next government programme starts, I really hope that all parties will take seriously the fact that the development of tourism in Lapland will be one of the top projects in the entire Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u137	Madam Speaker! This matter under discussion is a very good one. I myself have received feedback that the implementation of this, this small regional change in this park area, is really important for this development of local tourism. It is easy to agree with the excellent speeches made by previous speakers, Mrs Maijala and Mr Kiuru, that we have a lot of opportunities in the tourism sector in Lapland at national level, and this contributes to this. I would also like to thank the government for making rapid proposals and decisions so that things of different sizes can be corrected and taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u138	Mr President! To that extent, I would add to my own speech that in future the state should allocate money to finance these nature services. All of us in the parks are starting to have quite a number of items that could use more of that money. A certain amount of money is now in the budget for next year to be allocated to those corrections, but certainly not enough. The problem we have is that Metsähallitus now also has these former fortresses on the coast and many such places where it takes a lot of money to renovate. But not that we can get this most important natural resource in Finland — nature parks, national parks, protected areas — really well taken and developed, free of charge.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u139	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 9/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u140	Madam President! This is a very short presentation, and this is a question of the Land Use and Construction Act, Article 57a thereof, which states that a decree may be issued on the connection of a building to a district heating network. This government proposal is intended to repeal this paragraph. And why did I do that? Well, because it involves new heating technologies, forms of energy use, and the creation of a level playing field does not start in advance to limit or determine what is the best form of heating, but let the market decide, let people decide and let housing companies decide. This was, I think, unanimous in the Committee on Budgets, and the rapporteurs were generally sympathetic, considered it to be good, both the Natural Conservation Union and, for example, the Omatoliitto. I think the only criticism came in some respects from the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. The energy industry was very much in favour, as was the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which is certainly a welcome reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-10-ps-98.u141	Mr President! There was a debate on the need at this stage for the Land Use and Construction Act to work on such individual pieces of legislation, as the Land Use and Construction Act is currently undergoing a comprehensive reform. However, it was considered that this is mainly a small matter of unanimity and therefore it makes sense to take this matter forward. And it may be that in this land use and construction law, when it is such a huge entity, it may take several years to take that matter forward. In this parliamentary term, we have already made quite a number of reforms to this land use and building law, and you do not know that even if a few are still coming there, and that is likely to happen. Today, too, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we had another very small matter to deal with in order to correct this land use and construction law, but that too must be dealt with. Another point worth discussing is this energy production and the way in which energy matters will be exported from now on. Many properties have already introduced geothermal heat, and this deeper energy from the rock has come into discussion, and there are many other sources of distributed energy, new energy production models, there are many discussions. Hopefully we could have more and more discussion about them, because energy is what we need and, if mistreated, it will damage the climate, and we should all take care of the climate.
