ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. Today we are emphasising themes that have not been discussed in this Chamber for a long time in Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u2	Question Time will be initiated by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Taimela, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u3	Madam President! As MPs, we have received a lot of feedback from the citizens on how not to respond in Kela's ordering centers, the rides will not arrive or the sick people will wait for hours. With the reform of the taxi law, which entered into force at the beginning of July, the Government redesigned the Finnish taxi system itself. Since the legal reform, the availability of Kela rides has been mixed up, and problems continue despite periodic penalty payments. In public, we have read about, among other things, 10-year-old Oskar, who, as a disabled person, waited 42 minutes for a taxi alone in fear of getting there. In the capital region and large cities, the reform has expected to diversify the availability of services. The message in the rest of the country is completely different. Taxi entrepreneurs have stopped or moved to central cities. What will the government do to ensure the future of children and sick taxi services throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u4	Unfortunately, it is now the case that the minister in charge is not here, but is it okay if one of the ministers responds to this? We cannot continue this debate for very long because the Minister of Responsibility is not here, but would Minister Berner start? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u5	Mr President! Thank you for the question, I very much understand this concern. The Act on Transport Services regulates how, among other things, the taxi market as part of passenger transport services will continue to operate in Finland. The law on transport services does not regulate how the public sector buys its services and how the public sector competes. Thus, the way in which municipalities make their purchasing decisions or compete for school rides, for example, is their decision-making matter. Similarly, in the case of Kela rides, Kela's tendering is under the authority of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and therefore under the authority of Minister Mattila. Some of this, including related legislation, has been adopted in Parliament and has also been dealt with here. On the other hand, we share the common concern about how best to resolve this issue. We have also had a discussion between Kela, STM and LVM about whether we can support this competition and related challenges by improving regulation on both the STM side and the LVM side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u6	Let us take a few supplementary questions here, but please note that we have to move this to the Question Time when Mr Mattila is here. But let's take a few more questions, representative. The trout continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u7	Madam President! I believe that the next follow-up question is clearly related to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Minister of Transport and Communications Berner has told the public on several occasions during the summer that the Transport Services Act does not apply to Kela rides and has not now required Kela to compete. This is partly correct, but the reform of the law is confusing the taxi market from which Kela buys its ride. Kela presented without success the extension of the old model compensation procedure until the end of the year during the transition period to competitive tendering. At the end of the day, however, Kela was forced to tender her rides in order to be sure of the price level to be reimbursed. Neither did the government have the idea that Kela should have replaced the free pricing of taxis from the state budget. I ask the government, although Mr Berner has already referred to it to some extent: did you not see these problems in advance and how do you coordinate the preparation between the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which is responsible for replacing the Kela rides in the future, so that these problems actually disappear immediately?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u8	Madam President! Yes, we saw these problems and, in fact, we also drew Parliament's attention to them throughout the spring this year and the previous year. This process of tendering for Kela started in November 2017, and we had joint discussions and also drew attention to the fact that we predicted that this competition model would produce challenges as a result of the tendering process. To the extent that Kela should have put in competition precisely so that the competition for Kela rides would take effect on the same day as the Act on transport services, there was absolutely no necessity whatsoever. Kela would have been able to tender even when decisions were taken on the law 18 months ago if it wanted to make this tender before the law on transport services entered into force. I would also like to remind you that the STM adopted a price regulation to ensure that it is precisely for Kela that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u9	Let's stay in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u10	Madam President! I met a over 80-year-old lady in the Pirkanmaa province who had tried to call Kela taxis for several days and hours to reach Tampere University Hospital. He had not made it through the telephone line and finally had to pay for the ride himself because he had to get to the hospital. The trip cost 130 euros and he had a pension of about 700 euros. I was able to advise him to apply for compensation, but there are many similar examples in Finland. The fact is that the entered into force taxi law has forced the Kela taxis to compete as well. Self-responsibles have been raised up to EUR 25, and perhaps a practical example that emerges from the field is this enabling Kela trips, return trips. And the message from the Department of Transport has come that it has not been agreed to this so that the journey back and forth can be carried out by the same taxi. Would you, Minister Berner, give your consent to Kela that the journey and the return can also be carried out with the same ride?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u11	Madam President! Kela has chosen its competitive model, and there are challenges, admittedly. These challenges have also been addressed by the competition authority, which is currently carrying out an investigation. It is clear that this competition model needs to be looked at better, but I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in good cooperation with Kela, we have been through how the availability of rides works at the moment, however, around 99% will get the ride we need. But it is clear that no customer, no user, should be excluded from the ride. We are looking for a solution to this and see how this model could be improved, but I would remind you that Kela is not under the guidance and supervision of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and we cannot directly influence this regulation of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. However, we want to be supportive and helpful in this, seeing to it that the good things that arise from this law will then also serve Kelaak in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u12	Mr President! Minister Berner, you are now accusing Kela of all this, and that is how I understand it. As Kela's delegate, I have to ask whether, Minister Berner, Kela did not tell you in advance what kind of mess it will be if the timetable for this bill is this. So, in the case of Kela, was it not asked to postpone the timetable in order to ensure better services and rides for people? I don't think we can blame this on Kela, though. Kela has received people's disappointment about Kela rides. But the changes in the law have left this place. Since the beginning of July, I have received messages from Satakunta about the problems of driving, and people ask why they are treated in this way in the midst of all the illness and the already challenging situation in life. There is no acceptable reason, not for any sick person, disabled person or elderly person. Minister Berner,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u13	Let's try to stay within a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u14	Madam President! It is quite clear, of course, that everyone should receive the service he is entitled to, and also what we are jointly committed to, that those services will be provided. However, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we were actively involved in the debate when Kela was preparing for its competition, and we also drew Kela's attention, but also here, to the fact that there is a great risk in this model when it comes to the competition of global players and brokering centres. Now that risk has been partially realised. At the same time, however, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has regulated the maximum price for Kela, which, for its part, has also created a backrest for the system, while at the same time eliminating the benefits that the law on transport services could have generated. Our common task is to ensure that we get this thing in a better direction and, as I said, this has been done in good cooperation, but it is not that we should now unilaterally seek solutions. The Act on Transport Services provides room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u15	Madam President! The "take or leave" contract with the competition has not been good for taxi drivers. A lot of cars are missing, and the public feedback from these sick and disabled people who need rides, for example, comes from the fact that there are now lift-free taxis in traffic and they cannot get into the taxi. Kela is looking for savings, and there will be savings when cars are not on the road. I would ask you, even if Mr Mattila himself is not here: do you think this is the right thing to do in human terms, and what do you intend to do in the future, that such rules and laws are not made, that these people who are waiting for rides there or who are affected do not get into this situation? This is totally untenable. And what may be worse at the heart of this is that telephone centres do not work and, among other things, the staff, the hospital staff, have to wait in line — it is out of their working hours — for the service center. What will be done with this, and what will you answer? Is this humanly right, and what is your line?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u16	Madam President! Our line is that we make sure that both Kela and other actors get this thing right, and I believe that Kela has also been active and active in the matter. It is clear that this is not right for people to be left without services. It is also clear that correction must be found. It is also clear that the model for tendering is not good enough. As I said, there has already been a number of discussions in this area between Kela, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, STM and the competition authority. We are looking for solutions to help improve this situation. But what is also central at the moment is that Kela is responsible for the implementation of the agreements it has entered into and that the mediation centres also operate in the manner agreed upon. And in this respect: Kela has also taken steps and taken the matter forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u17	Let us take one more reply to this, then move on to the second question and then come back to this in other Question Hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u18	Madam President! My impression is that Kela has really done its best within the framework of this law and has, among other things, imposed sanctions on these mediation centres, which has improved the situation in part of the country. But Kela does apply the law of Parliament and has to operate within it. That is why I think it is an important question which has been asked several times here, that is, what the government can do in this situation, when it turns out that taxi rides really do not work that way, with this timetable for tendering and then with the price that comes from STM. There are problematic situations where dialysis patients, for example, have to wait for hours and taxis are not compensated for the waiting time when problems arise with taxi availability. Let me ask you again: has the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, considered how this legislation and the acquis can now possibly be corrected in order to get us out of this problematic situation for very vulnerable groups of people?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u19	Madam President! Kela has not put this acquisition into competition in accordance with the framework allowed by the new law. Kela itself has returned certain types of regulation, such as the maximum price that we have abolished from this law, which is now being used by other operators, and Kela has gone to tender for brokering centres that are not at the heart of this law that is currently in force. In other words, this current law itself allows for a different kind of competitive tendering, including for direct contracts with taxi operators, and for the possibility of allowing more service providers to create services in this system. The law itself does not stand in the way of this. The current obstacle is the binding agreements and competitions that have been concluded before the law enters into force. And now we do not have a very simple check to see how such a situation can be corrected through the law. The best way to remedy this is to assess the implementation of the tendering procedure and, by means of the law already in force, to allow service providers greater access to this system than is currently the case with this tendering procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u20	Next question, Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u21	Mr President! A delegation from Iraq is arriving in Finland to issue passports to Iraqi asylum seekers whose passport is — as it were — missing. This is so that they can enter the Finnish labour market. All reason is that these are asylum seekers who have just received a negative decision and who should be expelled from the country. After all, asylum seekers have the right to work anyway. This is the Ministry of the Interior’s trick to get cheap foreign labour to dump wages and working conditions in Finland. Why are you letting the Iraqis humiliate Finland? Iraq does not want to take back its own citizens, but it does give them passports so that they can stay in Finland. Why do you want to make illegal immigrants a new challenge for Finnish society? Why don't you return them to their homelands?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u22	Mr President! Firstly, those who do not have a residence permit basis in Finland must be returned to their countries of origin, and this work is being carried out all the time, as you know. Then, when we talk about people who meet the criteria for a work-related residence permit, I wonder, Mr Huhtasaari, whether you have something specifically against the Iraqis compared to the Filipinos or Indians who are applying for a work-related residence permit. When we have asylum seekers who, by law, as I am sure you know, can legally enter into employment, and few of them, but perhaps the most active part, in terms of their language skills and skills, will enter into employment, then if they are caught with a work-related residence permit specifically linked to the lack of a passport, I think it would be a good thing if the Iraqi Ministry of the Interior was able to deal with the renewal of their passports from Finland on a temporary basis. Of course, they're issuing passports to Iraq. Finland handles residence permit applications for its part. Some of them can then meet the criterion of a work-related residence permit, and then I think it would be a good thing if these people stay in Finland on a work-based basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u23	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u24	Mr President! Does the Coalition Party care more about foreigners than about Finnish unemployed people? Does the coalition understand that the state is impoverished by the fact that we are taking cheap labour from abroad to Finland, because no one lives on low wages? It must be compensated by various social benefits and also by supporting the family. In other words, here almost all parties except the Finns of Finland are pushing for the removal of the need test, which is a terrible experience in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u25	I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not a party Question Time, but a government Question Time, and in that sense I would ask you to take this into account in your own speeches. — Now the representative of the government will answer, Minister Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u26	Mr President! I would remind Mr Huhtasaar that the criterion for a work-related residence permit is compliance with the terms of employment and the collective agreement and the consideration of access to it, as has been the case up to now. No cheap labour market is accepted, and the government has explicitly registered and maintained in its budget line that employers' violations of the exploitation of illegal labour are being tightened up. That is a key challenge on which we will probably agree. As far as work-related immigrants are concerned, of which you said we are going to go to damnation, or in that direction, 90 per cent of those who have received a work-related residence permit in Finland during the last five years are currently working. It is a key resource, especially in the future, if we want to finance pensions, health services, without continuous tax increases. We need people who come to Finland from work. There are clear criteria for this, including clear travel documents, but then the criteria for a work-related residence permit, which are, of course, monitored by the Ministry of Labour. I think this is definitely in the interests of Finns: if you want to and meet the criteria in Finland with these criteria, you can come to work here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u27	Mr President! Indeed, we have had little problem in the past with the fact that certain people have not been returned to Iraq because the papers have not been in order. Well, now Iraq is coming here to get papers in order for these people who would then be able to obtain a work-related residence permit after being asylum seekers. The simple question of a simple person: why can they not, at the same time, put these papers in order for people who are not getting a work permit to be converted back to Iraq?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u28	Yes, of course we will not choose which Iraqi citizen will go to this delegation for the modernisation of his passport, and that is, of course, up to these people. I would imagine that it is precisely those people who know that they have had to obtain a work-related residence permit specifically for the missing travel document. But it is, of course, a matter for these people to seek out; this is only an additional possibility. As such, this is not such a dramatic issue because we have, for example, the Stockholm Delegation in Afghanistan made similar missions in the past, where people who have completed certain identity documents have been able to renew their passports on the same purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u29	Mr President! Many Finns have hoped that immigrants, asylum seekers who came here would be able to find employment quickly and thus integrate into Finnish society and, even during the waiting period, would be able to work here and do so. I am sure that what you have described here is one way of dealing with these Iraqis, but I would be interested to hear what other means are being planned so that people do not become frustrated but can give what they can reasonably expect while they are here. For those who would then remain here in Finland, the fact that they have been stuck in working life would of course help in this integration at an entirely different speed. Do you, Minister Mykkänen, have any other means planned on this issue, or does any other member of the Government want to answer that question?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u30	Mr President! That's a good question. Of course, the primary task of the government is to ensure that those who receive a residence permit to Finland because of persecution are directed and pushed to work as quickly as possible. There is good cooperation here with Mr Lindström, the Minister for Labour, also in making the work first line work more clearly. As far as asylum seekers' time is concerned at the reception centre, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, we have the very possibility that three months after being here, if you have the travel documents in order, you can enter into a legal employment relationship if you find and if you can do so. And there is also a great deal of effort at the reception centre today to offer many language studies — thanks to civil society, a lot of retired teachers, various ideological associations that help organise language studies — because, of course, activity there is important to avoid all kinds of radicalisation, frustration. There is also work to be done on how, for example, insurance issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u31	And Minister Lindström briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u32	Mr President! This means that it is still the government's line of action. It hasn't changed a bit. But as far as these processes are concerned, the government has taken steps to speed up the work permit processes, where it has been discovered that there are bottlenecks. These bottlenecks will be clarified, it will be clarified in the near future, but before that we have made some very concrete decisions in relation to the fact that we have added one agency to deal with these work permits, so that these processes can move forward more quickly: from eight months to four months, and even more ambitious. In other words, what Mr Mykkänen has referred to here is being done in cooperation with the SM.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u33	Green Parliamentary Group: Mr Toivola, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u34	Madam President! Earlier this week, Yle’s MOT published an article on a survey, a wide-ranging one, related to the sexual harassment of young people in schools. The results of the survey were extremely halting: at worst, as many as one in five had experienced sexual harassment. Very similar results have been obtained in the past from school health surveys and from a recent report published by Save the Children, which perhaps the most halting finding was that 50% of girls and more than 20% of boys would not report sexual harassment to adults. It was also unclear to the large number of people who should be told about this. We need to be able to create enough low-threshold paths and paths for children and young people, and we need to be able to communicate these things safely. Then it is absolutely the security and trust that we all agree on. We need adults and services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u35	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Toivola for the very important and topical question which, just before Question Time, was also an opportunity to discuss with high school students, and these concerns and solutions were discussed. After all, the government has made a very determined effort to ensure that sexual harassment can be eradicated as effectively as possible from Finnish schools, day-care centres, including workplaces and society — that is, absolutely zero tolerance for sexual harassment. And when it comes to children and young people, it is clear that this is a particularly serious issue and a vulnerable target group. We have a number of concrete actions, but perhaps the most important thing in the school world is that there are up-to-date guidelines for adults, teachers, school leaders, staff, and in-service training in order to ensure that we have proper operating instructions and processes, how to announce how to prevent sexual harassment and so on. And quite rightly, as you said in your speech, trust, atmosphere and such a low threshold will indicate:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u36	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this issue to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u37	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for having taken action. This is definitely something that is certainly a common cause and concern in this Chamber that requires action from everyone. In connection with this survey by MOT, Professor Kristiina Brunila raised the issue of teacher training, and her view was strongly that perhaps issues related to this harassment are also a weakness in teacher training and in-service training. And when we talk about this harassment theory, it is important to remember that at the same time we are also talking about equality and equality, we are talking about structures or the role of different minority groups in society and how often these minority groups may be more exposed to this harassment, and then it would be important to consider how these issues will be taken into account there in teacher training and in-service training, so that every educational institution around Finland has equal resources to face these situations both through acute intervention and also from the point of view of prevention. I would like to ask the Minister what measures you intend to take from this point of view: teacher training, continuing training and adequate resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u38	Mr President! Rightly, the government has already taken these measures, and we have a national teacher training forum, which includes all the higher education institutions providing teacher training and all the key stakeholders and which develops Finnish teacher education. This theme, sexual harassment, has been there in a group reading and taken very seriously. Similarly, we have increased in-service training and asked the Finnish National Board of Education to channel additional resources into teacher in-service training in this particular theme. In fact, during this term of government, there have been very significant additional contributions to teacher training, we are talking about tens of millions of euros to develop teacher training, and we are delighted that Finnish teachers are among the best in the world, I dare say, and are also very happy and actively involved in teacher training when it offers them the opportunity. In addition, all our key stakeholders are committed to this work: the municipalities are involved — we hope that everyone will be involved, and there is also the opportunity to communicate that message — and so are the teachers’ trade unions and so on. We've got one, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u39	I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that one minute is one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u40	Madam President! I'm expanding the jamming technique in the cultural fields. Minister Terho, you have received a report on cases of harassment in the film, theatre and cultural sectors, and you have announced that the State cannot support any further action that will reveal such inappropriate practices. I would like to ask you: with what timetable are we going to have such a monitoring mechanism that you have put forward in the media to ensure that the situation of the recipients of state aid is established, and have you considered that this practice could be extended to sports policy, for example?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u41	Mr President! Thank you to the questioner. You raised an important issue, a very topical one. Yesterday I received this report, which I launched in the spring, from Paanetoja, who had carried out an extensive, comprehensive and meritful study during the summer in broad consultation with the field. He made a long list of draft measures, some of them directed at my ministry, some at other ministries, some at educational institutions, some at the sector itself. These proposals, which were specifically directed at my own ministry, were, first of all, about the need to improve the support schemes so that the beneficiaries of the aid understand their own employer obligations, which, of course, are central to ensuring that the employer is able to work in the workplace without harassment and fear of harassment. Secondly, he proposed this monitoring mechanism, which you mentioned, and which will also be immediately promoted, and one third of training. All these will be put forward together with the industry as quickly as possible, in consultation with the industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u42	Mr President! The extent of sexual harassment in all its sorrows has now become apparent to all in the past year. In particular: We too have opened the eyes of all of us. There is also very much researched information on sexual harassment, to which reference has already been made. I myself refer to the equality barometer of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, which is certainly one of the most trusted sources when we examine what sexual harassment is in Finland. 38 per cent of women and 17 per cent of men had experienced sexual harassment in the last two years, and especially young women: half of young women under 35 had experienced sexual harassment. In Finland, we tend to reform and improve society by law. We believe in the law. We are, as it were, legal believers, and it also reflects our morals. Now I'd like to ask you, Attorney General Häkkänen: What kind of measures are you now planning for sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u43	Mr President! Everyone in this room agrees that sexual harassment must be eradicated. In fact, everyone from abroad probably thinks that sexual harassment should be eradicated. The Ministry of Justice has also launched a wide-ranging campaign involving many cities, various organisations, communities. At the same time, it was also heard that ministers Grahn-Laasonen and Terho have started discussions in their respective sectors, and many other ministries: Jari Lindström has launched a debate with labour market organisations to involve practically all communities in the eradication of sexual harassment in Finland. But when it comes to what is sexual harassment and at the same time, for example, the principles of criminal law on the precision that the Constitutional Committee is watching over here, it is very challenging to include in criminal law, for example, specific forms of harassment. That is why it is very difficult to do so, and it is more of a question that we already have in the Equality Act and in the labour law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u44	Mr President! It is very important to eradicate all discrimination and bullying and to obtain zero tolerance. This is particularly important when we talk about small children, and it is excellent that we now have a new law on early childhood education, which for the first time has been enshrined in the law, that bullying should be prevented and eradicated. After all, in all other schools, this is already in the law. I would now like to ask the Minister for Education: what steps are now being taken to ensure that this new piece of legislation is implemented for each child at each early childhood education point and at each day-care centre? I'll tell you what I'm saying. I'm glad this came. We've been working for a long time. When the Social Democratic Minister of Education was, then this section was not obtained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u47	Mr President! We actually have a new law on early childhood education in Finland now underlining the priority of the child’s interests, and for the first time the articles on the early childhood education law have also been introduced which explicitly state that the child must be protected from bullying and harassment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u50	Next question: Parliament of the Left Alliance, Mrs Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u51	Madam President! Last Thursday we had a hard and long time in Question Time to talk about reducing the protection against dismissal. It was then tried to point out from the opposition that should the government now react quickly to the fact that the labour market is not escalating in such a way that we will be taking collective action in this good upturn that the government has, in its own words, contributed to and which we too have blessed — the employment rate has risen, the export industry is drawing. Now the Industry Union has announced the first steps to introduce a ban on overtime. So I ask the ministers: what can we do now on the government side, without losing face, without blaming anyone, that we can still create peace in the labour market this autumn and restore its goodwill — even though the Left Alliance was opposed as the only parliamentary party — and go over the winter so, to the new parliamentary elections, and with the help of the liquidator, we could go over this again?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u52	Madam President! Thank you, Mrs Myllykoski, for your constructive contribution to this very difficult question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u55	Since we had a debate on this for more than half an hour in the last Question Time, we will now take just one supplementary question, and that is Mrs Myllykoski's.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u56	Madam President! We agree that the thresholds for employment should be lowered. It is the will of each of us in this Chamber. But I would now like to remind you that just a moment ago we introduced an amendment to the Yt-law, which extended the 30 to 20 procedures. At the time, Finnish Entrepreneurs very strongly pointed out that this will become a threshold for growth. Now I would like to ask: are you thinking about what this means for those companies that want to hire that 20-year-old worker when you make this proposal? It's a barrier to growth. They do not want to take on that new process and lose its own decision-making power when they employ new employees, because they become completely different from the process of dismissal. Now I'm really asking you to consider knowing that even asking me on my knees won't make you back away from this. But you would wonder, for example, with the studies of the liquidator, whether there is now a conflict with the government’s own objectives. Or can we work together with the opposition to support you in getting this over with?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u57	Madam President! Of course we've been thinking about this. Every time a number, a number is set somewhere, then it's always a limit. This 20 came from Yt-laitos, as you well know, but the objective that this government has is precisely in small companies, in companies where this misregistration can cause the company to fail.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u58	And again, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Orpo wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u59	Mr President! Indeed, I would like to pick up where Mr Lindström left off, which is where we see the great potential of employment in small businesses. We live in a world where the nature of work is changing all the time, and it is our job to create job opportunities for a long-term unemployed person who has been looking for work. This is how the tens of thousands of small companies have that potential.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u62	At the beginning of Question Time, I said that the emphasis today is on those questions that have not been in this Chamber recently.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u63	The Swedish Parliamentary Group, Mr Blomqvist, will now be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u64	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Det har variety svårt, för att inte säga omöjligt att under den ox regeringsperioden skryta med utbildningspolitiken i vårt land. Regeringens nedskärningar har tuvatur lämnat sina spår, och inte Heller nästa års budget ger stora förhopnningar om att läget skulle förbättras.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u65	Mr President! It is, so it is one good option among others. It is indeed the case that as many as 11 percent of those who have completed comprehensive school pass comprehensive school without achieving the kind of versatile literacy that can cope with secondary education and later life. According to the Pisa study, Finnish children are the world's best readers, but we have worrying signs of a decline in literacy, which inevitably also affects the level of literacy and learning outcomes. Tomorrow Friday the guidelines of the National Literacy Forum, i.e. the entire Finnish guidelines for promoting literacy and literacy in Finland, led by the author Juha Itkonen, will be published and will include libraries, parents, schools and all organisations that have worked around this theme in recent years, i.e. this is an important contribution. It has also been financially invested in, and invested in, that we have impressive, visible actions aimed at getting the whole of Finland involved in the bookshop, which would encourage children to read. We can influence it, everyone on our own, including by setting an example and reading to children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u66	Let us take three supplementary questions: Mr Blomqvist, Mr Puumala and Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u67	Värderade fru talman! Vi i SFP vill att skolan ska trygga jämlika förutsättningar för alla barn. Så är det inte i dag, alla skolor står inte inför momma utmangar.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u68	Mr President! After all, the subject matter is extremely important. It is impossible to think that a second degree, vocational education or upper secondary school, would make good progress if there was a challenge in basic matters, in understanding what is read and even in reading. For Finland, this is a huge challenge. We come here every week from around the world to see a Finnish educational miracle that we are proud of. We've done it together. This must also be the case in the future. Let's not let the foundation crumble. In addition to that and in place of what the representatives of the RKP have rightly said, Minister, we have been thinking in the centre about whether it should be put in place, that preschool, primary school's first and second classes should form a whole that would provide the best possible support for parents in order to have them in control of basic skills. If something is very contagious, it could go a little faster, but if necessary it could be longer. We're talking about the little children's school. What do you think of this opening downtown? Let's get the foundation fixed, let's save the Finnish education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u69	Mr President! I hope you understand that I use two sentences. In our view, the representative of Sarkomaa was disproportionate to the social democrats who, in connection with the early childhood education law, wanted legislative changes such as those of the Teachers' Trade Union. We would have liked to return subjective day care and reduce the group size of children. I found it somewhat offensive to blame the social democrats for wanting the best for the children of Finland, and the best is also in the sense that this is indeed a common national task: to improve children's reading, writing, counting and basic skills. There's a lot of ways to do that. It is a matter of the whole school's culture, and the cooperation of all teachers draws attention to writing and counting skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u70	All right, there were three, but everything was connected, so you can answer these in a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u71	Mr President! I believe that we all agree that the central value of comprehensive school is equality. The Finnish comprehensive school has excelled by the fact that we have an equal system, creating equal opportunities. It is true that in a world where children come from more diverse backgrounds, there are also challenges in implementing an equal comprehensive school. This is reflected in learning outcomes, and action has been taken very vigorously to respond to them. In other words, we have doubled the budget for equal opportunities in education, and for the first time we also create this approach in day-care centres. The issue of early childhood education must also be raised in this context, because those early years are absolutely central. According to this OECD report published this week during the Government, participation in early childhood education has increased in Finland. That is very good news. Similarly, this new law on early childhood education, against which Mr Gustafsson, you voted, what I am still wondering,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u72	Let us then take the question on the question-answer principle. Christian Democratic Parliament Group, represented by Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u73	Mr President! The overall situation of care for the elderly in our country is alarming in many places. The number and quality of services has not been increased as necessary. Elderly care is lame both in institutions and in home care. We don't have enough resources. Nursing is too small for need, nurses get tired, and ghost nurses, in other words, names that appear on work lists that are not actually there to work, are no help at all. Unfortunately, in the August budget debate, the government completely ignored the poor situation in the care of the elderly. I would like to ask the ministers concerned: can we, in the current situation, guarantee human and valuable old age, how to deal with neglect and how to increase control?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u74	Mr President! The answer to a broad question: firstly, legislation. During the last parliamentary term, the Parliament made an excellent basis for the ageing of Finns in the form of an old-age service law. I think that the law is good in many respects, as are the quality recommendations that guide the practical functioning of municipalities, and they have been updated on many occasions. We are also aware that the economic situation of municipalities is better than it has been for a long time. In this respect, as a member of the Government, the answer to a question: within the framework of this house and from the perspective of the government's distribution of money, from the point of view of supporting the finances of municipalities, things should be better. Unfortunately, as regards individual cases, I have to join you in the picture of the situation that you, Mr Tanus, painted in your speech. Fortunately, that is not the whole truth. But in this respect, legislation and the economic situation of municipalities should allow for better treatment of older people, and in this respect I am happy to continue the dialogue with the Finnish municipal field to ensure that the staff can also be better maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u75	Central Parliamentary Group, representative Anttila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u76	Mr President! Food safety is the cornerstone of Finnish food production and is monitored. We have very effective import controls, but despite this, the S Group is now bringing chicken skins from Brazil to Finland. In the summer, the European Commission has put Brazil's meat inspection under suspicion and, at the same time, has put Brazil's largest poultry producers on the EU blacklist. However, despite this, this Brazilian broiler skin is now being imported to Finland, and the S Group then manufactures products with a private label, i.e. under its own brand, and the information on its product does not show where the meat is and what it is. I ask the Minister for Agriculture: what is the government going to do to ensure that imports of this kind of meat can actually be prevented, because it has been clearly questioned by the European Commission as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u78	Madam President! This question raised by Mr Anttila culminates in one of the key problems on our food market. We come here with products, we come here with raw materials that are not produced in accordance with Finnish legislation, our regulations, nor in accordance with European Union regulations, not socially sustainable, not sustainable for animal welfare, not sustainable for health, not environmentally sustainable, and we must put an end to this. I find it very questionable what the S Group is doing in this regard, very dubious. And these private label products, their own brands, are the tip of the iceberg, which then tightens up brand products, about which we know how they are produced, with what criteria. That is why the government has tightened up the labelling of origin. Today, we have adopted a new food market law in the Government, which will certainly bring fairness to this. We are having intensive discussions within the European Union on what kind of products can be imported here in the future. This is a complex wheel, which also involves world trade. It is accompanied by WTO regulations and many other issues. But this is a serious place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u79	Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, Mr Vahasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u80	Mr President! The wheels of the economy must be kept rolling and our country competitive. Economic growth will not be possible without a functioning transport system. Finland needs a long-term investment strategy for future infrastructure projects. Sweden invests more than five times more resources in the transport network than Finland. In particular, the poor condition of the lower road network is discussed throughout the country, and in Uusimaa, for example, the situation is very bad. Uusimaa is Finland's locomotive and backbone of the economy, which has three times the volume of traffic but still the worst roads in the whole country. This is a problem that affects the whole country, and Uusimaa is just the top of the mountain here. Budget money will never be enough to bridge the cost gap, and that is why we need other measures. I would like to ask the government: how is it thought to deal with this matter in terms of the debt of correction and to find new ways of financing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u81	Madam President! This is a very topical issue and I believe that we are all concerned that our roads and infrastructure are in ever worse shape. Our correction debt already exceeds EUR 2 billion and increases by EUR 100 million per year. In the parliamentary working group we have agreed that we need 300 million additional funding per year for basic infrastructure management, and I also hope that this level of funding for basic infrastructure management can be raised in future government negotiations. Another point that I think is important is that we are also going through the fact that we are forming a 12-year transport system plan in Parliament at the moment. In this respect, we will work together in Parliament and ensure that Finland has a 12-year plan for developing our infrastructure in the future. In addition to this, we have:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u82	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u83	Mr President! The Minister of Transport gave an excellent description of the work that is being done at the Ministry of Transport. From the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, during this term of government, as one of the strategic choices of the Government Programme, we have spent more money on basic management and debt-repairing than in fact years before or during the previous government, and at the same time there are several major infrastructure projects on the move. Now this special effort in the Government Programme will end at the beginning of next year. We are going to make some sort of bridge financing between here, but the dismantling of the repair debt is a big issue that has now been financed with property income this period, and it is absolutely the decision of the next government to continue to do so. It is part of a big package that seeks to solve how these big strategic projects can be achieved, how regional development projects can be achieved, and we are working together to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u85	Still a blue parliamentary group, Mr. Jalonen. Let me ask you something.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u86	Mr President! For a long time some results have been hoped for in moving the clocks, and now the clock’s hand has finally moved forward. The Blue Party is an EU-critical party, and it has puzzled us that such a small thing as moving the clock's hand in Brussels is of such great interest. Sampo Terho, among others, has dealt with this in an interesting way in his blog. But now, fortunately, it has moved forward and each one has a say in the matter. There was also a citizens' initiative, and it is also worth thanking the members of the Committee on Transport and Communications, who unanimously came to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u89	Madam President! Indeed, the Commission has proposed that the Member States of the European Union should be given up the shift of clocks during the next year and those countries that would remain in summer time should be moving their watches for the last time on the last day of March next year and those who would remain in normal or winter time will be doing so at the end of October. Here in Finland, we have thought about promoting the issue by launching an Otakantaa.fi survey for all citizens next week, in which we can comment on this issue. In addition, there are already expert reports going on, and thank you also to the committee, whose report already contains some studies on how, from a public health point of view, different times affect our everyday lives. The Government will then make a proposal and Parliament will take a decision, and together we will form the Finnish position. Yes, the decisions are being taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u90	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 8/2018 vp, the position on the report is now decided. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u91	Mr President! In fact, I picked up four topics from this reply from the Committee on Foreign Affairs as a basis for discussion. Firstly, the committee considers that the continuation of Finland's participation in the training mission in Iraq is justified. It is important for Finland to continue to participate in international action against Isil and in the comprehensive stabilisation of Iraq. With this decision, the training strength of this operation would be reduced from around 100 soldiers to around 80, including participation in training and advisory tasks and participation in the necessary headquarters, administration and support tasks. It is also important to note that this number of 80 soldiers includes the possible and probable participation of Finland in a training operation organised by NATO, which is currently also under discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and which will be based on the participation of between 1 and 5 soldiers. The committee's actual proposal for a decision to Parliament is that Parliament has no objections to the report. Secondly, a little description of this OR operation. It is therefore an operation led by the International Coalition against Isil. The objective of the mission launched in 2014 in Iraq is to halt, weaken and ultimately destroy Isil, develop the capabilities of the Iraqi security forces and stabilise the security situation. A total of more than 9,000 soldiers will take part in the operation in 26 countries. Training and advisory activities are a key part of the operation of the ORI. The ORI does not have an actual UN mandate, but it relies on the UN Security Council resolution and the Iraqi Government's request. Finland has participated in security sector training and advice cooperation as part of the ORI operation since 15. During its participation, Finland has carried out training and advisory tasks for the Kurdish peshmerga forces and security forces under the Iraqi central government in Northern Iraq and also elsewhere in the Iraqi region. According to the report, Finnish training in Iraq has improved the ability of trained troops to act as an entire unit and to develop the ability to cope in a combat situation and to create grounds for managing security situations and areas. Medical training has reduced the mortality rate of wounded people, and training, especially in the area of improvised explosives, has reduced losses among trainers. The role of the new operation may have two key changes, as it were, for Finland’s participation. First of all, the report states that the focus of Finland’s participation is to be changed and transferred to an area governed by the Iraqi central government. We will continue to rely on Erbil for the time being. According to the survey, the OIR operation is in a transformation phase and this will also have a direct impact on the future role of Finns in the operation. It is important to note that the training of the fighting forces is now moving towards the training of the security forces in the region. The aim is to transform the forces in combat into a normal peacetime security machine with the confidence of the people and with the usual means of maintaining the security of society. Our third point concerns the risk assessment of the operation, the rights of use of force and the role of the forces. We repeat the previous estimate in 17 that this is a high-risk operation due to circumstances. Isil is still capable of carrying out terrorist attacks in the country, and the report shows that the ORU is a potential target. According to a report received by the committee, Finnish operations in the OR have been carried out as planned and the Finnish troops have not suffered any losses. Nevertheless, the committee stresses the importance of planning and continuing to develop the activities of the troops in Iraq from a perspective which minimises the risks for the Finnish troops. The committee stresses that all threats need to be thoroughly prepared as the focus of Finland's participation and the area of activity now changes. Fourthly, I would like to highlight the situation in Iraq, which the Committee's opinion deals with far more extensively than I am going to present here orally. The report includes an overall assessment of the current situation in Iraq. It is estimated that the Iraqi armed forces, with the support of the Isil coalition, have recaptured the territories in such a way that: Only 2% of Iraq's territory is in Isil's possession. However, the Committee's expert hearings made it clear that, despite regional losses, the organisation continues to pose a significant threat to both Iraq and international security. The transformation of Isil’s structure from a centralized terrorist organisation to a worldwide network of fragmented cells will change the nature of the threat it poses and make it difficult, for example, to trace the funding it receives. The organisation still controls small areas in the north of Iraq and is able to carry out terrorist attacks. According to the report, extremist groups are primarily targeted against Shiite population and security forces, but coalition forces are also considered as potential targets of attack. According to the report we have received, the factors that led to the success of the organization, especially among the Sunni population in the early stages of its activities, still exist. These include dissatisfaction with the functioning of the administration, corruption, unemployment, the economic situation and lack of prospects.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u92	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the report and the Committee on Defence for its opinion on the educational activities of the Finnish security sector in Iraq, and I am also pleased that there are many members of both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence. It is very valuable that these issues are dealt with in depth and that Finland's foreign policy policy policy policy is formed together, and is collectively concerned about it. The achievement of the objectives of the international coalition in Iraq has been faster than expected. The ORI mission is entering the final, fourth phase, with the aim of normalising the security situation. As the report also states, although the deterioration of Isil's position has stabilised the security situation in Iraq, it remains unstable and there are also many regional differences. Isil still has small areas on the Iraqi border with Syria and is capable of carrying out terrorist attacks. Isil is still a threat to international security. It is estimated that some of Isil's fighters will remain in the Middle East, some will seek to return to their countries of origin, some possibly heading towards Europe. Influencing Isil's propaganda is an important part of the international coalition's activities. The development of the situation in Syria and the stabilisation of the security situation in the country are also essential. Apart from the final defeat of Isil, developments in the security situation in Iraq will depend essentially on the ability of the future Iraqi Government to address social problems, including corruption, the functioning of the regime, the economy and unemployment, and the consideration of the various populations. The government negotiations after the May elections are difficult and continue. Mr President! The international community's role in stabilising Iraq is at the crossroads. In addition to military crisis management, action is needed to support the stability and viability of society. And, as the committee points out, cooperation between various international operations and other assistance activities is important to promote comprehensive action and to achieve a coherent impact in Iraq, without forgetting the country's own growing responsibilities and capacity and capacity. Finland emphasises the holistic approach and also acts accordingly, taking part not only in military crisis management but also in international coalition police training and the EU civilian crisis management operation, as well as in stabilisation, mine clearance and humanitarian aid. A project to develop vocational education and training in Iraq is being prepared. Relations between Finland and Iraq have intensified significantly in recent years. Reopening the embassy in Baghdad will improve the chances of monitoring the situation in Iraq, promoting bilateral relations, discussing solutions to common challenges such as immigration and return, affecting the activities of international organisations, and helping Finnish companies to get involved in the reconstruction of Iraq. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs draws attention to the fact that there is also a report on Finland’s participation in the new NATO training mission in Iraq, and states: ‘What furthercomandattendance of the application operations was justified by the parallel handling of both operations in the Parliament. “ We will take this into account and, as far as possible, we will strive for more comprehensive decision-making. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs also draws attention to the safety of the Finns involved in the operation. Activities of extremist groups Iraq is primarily targeting the Shiite population and the Iraqi security forces, but the coalition forces can also be the target of attacks. The security situation of the mission is under constant surveillance and the Defence Forces are prepared for rapid changes in the security situation. Finally, there are currently 78 members in the coalition against Isil. It is important that Finland participates in the international front against terrorism and brings its own expertise and contribution. Extensive international cooperation and a comprehensive approach promote both regional and international stability and security in the Middle East, which is undoubtedly also in Finland's interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, this should give rise to a small debate, not for very long, however small. I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u94	Mr President! The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group supports Finland's participation in the Iraq operation as set out in the report. We see participation in the operation as part of Finland's global responsibility, which we also believe is part of Finland's foreign policy. The international coalition set up to support Iraq has played a truly decisive role in the fight against Isil, and results have also been achieved. However, while Isil is currently in a weakened position, it is necessary to ensure that it is genuinely possible to address the root causes of Isil’s involvement, especially among young people. These are, as the chairman of the committee has already said, unemployment, lack of education, lack of visibility and so on. Therefore, a comprehensive approach is also needed in Iraq in order to stabilise the situation in Iraq and prevent the further strengthening of Isil.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u95	Mr President! As far as the committees are concerned, the unanimous deliberations also indicate that this government policy enjoys a very broad, seamless support within Parliament, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on Defence, and this is, of course, a good thing. In fact, Finland is now taking on more responsibility. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has just referred, in addition to others, to the fact that we want to be more informed about these issues by setting up our embassy in Baghdad. However, I would like to hear some of the Minister's comments on how he is currently seeing the European Union's way and, as it were, decisions as to how the unity of the European Union's foreign policy line in matters like this is being achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u96	Mr President! The regional war in Iraq is practically over or almost over with regard to Isil, but, as has rightly been said here in many speeches, Isil as such an idea and an idea has not been defeated. It is likely that it will continue to operate, apparently continuing to act as terrorist cells and doing its own destruction work, both in Iraq and possibly elsewhere. This is something to be quoted. Secondly, it is very important that the future of Iraq is now considered to be a stabilisation operation of this kind, on the basis of this decision, which aims to strengthen the ownership of Iraq's own security system in its own territory, its own citizens, but also in the sense that its social conditions gradually become so that life is calmed down over a long period of time. I too attach great importance to the fact that such difficult issues, including the security aspects of our own peacekeepers, can be done in Parliament on the basis of the broadest possible political consensus.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u97	Mr President! I believe that what is essential is how we now move from a military conflict to this very building of social peace, which also requires these actors to change their behaviour. Our aim is to create the conditions for life and to transfer to the Iraqis the opportunities to build their own society. The key to this is to look at the operating environment through, among other things, overgeneration, that is, how we break the cycle of conflict in such a way that young people and future generations do not continue the trauma that is there. Second point: We must also look at the environment. We know that many conflicts are increasingly caused by environmental disasters, as is now the case in the Basra region of South Iraq. I would therefore like the Minister to bear in mind these very points of view, that we are not just focusing on these military issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u98	Mr President! Iraq is also an important country for Finland. In fact, we have long-standing relations there. Of course, wars have disrupted this development, and now we have Iraqi refugees here who are following very intensively what is happening in their former place of residence and country, possibly planning to return there when conditions are secure. It is important that we take part in this operation and in the follow-up to the OR, but it is equally important that we look at civil society and the development of civil society, putting resources into it. The situation in the Iraqi environment has already been highlighted. In committee we heard experts about the situation in Basra, the impact of climate change, the effect of salt on water, drinking water, cultivation, all this, and this also causes social unrest and risks to society. It is also important to monitor radicalisation. The elections in Iraq have been won by politicians who may have such an anti-Western agenda, including al-Sadr and his supporters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u99	Mr President! The stability of Iraq is, of course, important for us in the sense that, in the context of the asylum crisis, a large number of Iraqis went through Europe. They did not have much of the right to asylum. Now they should be able to return to their country of origin, and there should be sufficient conditions for that. However, the problem here is that Iraq does not in all cases take back its citizens who have received a negative asylum decision, and this casts a shadow over all the cooperation that is being made with Iraq. Any cooperation with Iraq should therefore be called into question until this matter is resolved. This is very humiliating for us and it is incomprehensible that the country would not accept its own citizens. It must be said clearly to the Iraqis that this is not going to happen or that the money taps will be closed. So now that the Minister is here, what is the situation in which this return agreement with Iraq has been discussed for years?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u100	Madam President! It is important now, after the May parliamentary elections, to bring together a functioning government in Iraq. Strengthening democracy, the fact that equal treatment between the various populations will be achieved, is key to the fact that Isil is unable to rise again. The importance of women and girls in building lasting peace and a stable society will also be emphasised in that country. Mr President! According to the law, Finns can serve up to 2,000 people in crisis management tasks. This situation is currently on a reasonable footing, but it will change at the end of the Lebanese operation. A new approach to the crisis management package is now needed. Minister Soini, how do you see this Finnish participation? Do you see the need for stronger participation, active participation in crisis management operations under the auspices of the UN and the EU? Africa in particular is important from a European perspective in many respects, and crisis management in cooperation with development cooperation is an important element in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u101	Mr President! Finland’s role in training Iraq has been quite significant. We have trained over 3,000 soldiers there over the last few years, and it has also played its part in calming the country. In the Kurdistan region in particular, the training of the Peshmerga troops was indeed crucial at the time, and it is now good to continue this work to ensure balanced development. But it's not easy. The country is highly contradictory internally, the anti-Sunnit—Shiat is still alive, and there have been major social unrest in the Shia region, including the rise in food prices and so on. And these ecological problems that have been mentioned here have also been raised when salty seawater has risen to farmland and in that way conditions have deteriorated there. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u102	When a representative is about to leave Parliament in a few months, the 1 minute may well be 1.30.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u103	Mr President! The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group supports this presentation of the Government's report on the training mission in Iraq. But we share the view of the representative above that the focus of these operations should be shifted to non-military activities, reconstruction, civilian crisis management and humanitarian aid. It is a policy which is the best way to promote social stability, to fight against this very idea behind Isil and also to ensure that the situation on the ground is not such that people are reluctant to leave their own homes. On the other hand, we consider the Government's action on this NATO operation to be problematic. Thus, the President of the Republic and the Committee of Ministers, UTUVA, have stated that Finland is participating in this NATO training mission in Iraq, despite the fact that no report had been made to Parliament at the time. Our parliamentary group sees no reason for Finland to participate in this NATO-led project.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u104	Mr President! A parliamentary election was held in Iraq in May of this year. The turnout was very low and the country has not yet been able to form a functioning government. Although the political situation in Iraq is difficult, it is quite clear that Iraq needs a functioning government as quickly as possible to stabilise society and develop living conditions in the various parts of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u105	Mr President! The problems in Iraq already go a long way, particularly until 2003, and these same phenomena are always repeated at regular intervals. That's why we should look a little further at these. I remember when I warned in this hall too in 2013 about Isil and it was treated with a bit of a smile, and then that problem finally exploded. I would like to see comprehensive solutions found now for Iraq, which requires development aid, civilian crisis management and also military crisis management, so that we can really calm it down in such a way that it will also be a peaceful place after a long time. But I would really like to take up this very well put question by Mr Mäkelä: I would like to see this really invested in, but I would like to see such notes of cooperation found there, so that Iraq, for example, would agree to take back its own citizens, who belong to them, who do not have the conditions for being here in Finland. Are there opportunities for this now, for example, by a new ambassador,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u106	Mr President! In this debate, it has become very clear that Finland's participation in international crisis management operations is also a big issue for Finns, and we want to take responsibility for it. However, this path to these situations comes after years and decades of different inequalities, crises and a constant state of war, an avalanche of refugees and so on. In 2015, when this government started, the government first cut development cooperation — if I recall several hundred million euros — and now, of course, crisis management operations will not be carried out for this reason, but it is also said that the fact that money will have to be put into these crisis management operations when the international community fails in those softer ways to influence the stability of society is also reflected in the overall picture. We often talk here about crisis management operations in the context of reports and other reports, but very little, and in my opinion too little, about this whole package, which, in addition to military action, has this humanitarian aid. Minister Soini, should there be a debate in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u107	I will give you one last response: Mr Ruoho, Mr Paatero and Mr Mäkipää. Then to the minister for a few minutes, and then we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u108	Mr President! The report also sends a signal that Finland does not accept terrorism by continuing to participate. I'd go to work against it. On the other hand, at the same time, Finland has a good understanding, as can be read in the UaV reports, of the holistic approach to addressing root causes and stabilising society sustainably. Mr Kääriäinen spoke aptly of a stabilisation operation. Cooperation in education and training is one of the best ways to have a sustainable impact, ‘trainingthetrainers’, but it is the only way. Foreign Minister Soini told me of various ways to influence, always from humanitarian aid to civilian crisis management. Mr Mäkelä raised the question of conditionality in aid and cooperation, but it is certainly not a simple matter. There would then be a large proportion of the people who have no influence, completely outside aid, only because the country's administration or officials are unable to cooperate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u109	Mr President! As far as the Committee on Defence is concerned, we have already drawn attention to a technical matter of this kind, that we received a report here that last week in June and two weeks from then on we have agreed on this NATO operation. Why could these not be imported at the same time, because there was no committee meeting after the last week of June, where it could have even started to deal with this report? Was there any desire to keep the participation and handling of this NATO operation a secret? We stayed wondering and hoped that next time things like this would not happen. This participation in crisis management has decreased, as has been pointed out several times, and there has been some confusion that when Finns are wanted abroad, however, military training has now been increased internationally but taken out of crisis management. Is it something like this new line of the future? How Finland participates in overall security, in addition to women and children, when it is around
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u110	Mr President! We are now in OR stage three and moving to phase four with the aim of stabilising normal conditions in Iraq. And the transition to the fourth stage requires that Isil be completely destroyed. It was mentioned here that 2% would be under Isil's control, but we also know that the country is well behind everything: there is insecurity, there is no information about equality, some of the country is in ruins and mined. I would like to ask how the Minister sees the future of the operation: when will Isil be completely defeated, and when will the mission itself be completed? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u111	And now to the minister, if you'll excuse me for two minutes... Well, let's just say we give it three minutes, even if there's no such thing as three minutes in these files.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u112	Mr President! As long as you allow me, there are a lot of questions here. But let us start with these softest things, because it is very important — including Mr Elovaara and many others — what happens when we calm down. That is, of course, the repair of infrastructure, support for livelihoods, economic recovery, support for regional government and reconciliation. So these are absolutely essential things if we want this society to move forward. Then, when you asked what Finland has done, at the February 2018 Iraq Reconstruction Conference, Finland made a EUR 10 million pledge of support, including support for the development of vocational education and training in Iraq. Yes, these measures have been taken and are being taken. And, of course, the government is not hiding anything at all, that is, when decisions are made on schedules within the framework of TP-UTVA, they are being made, and Finland is going into this so-called NATO training operation at this early stage by a single trainer. This is quite consistently part of Finnish military crisis management and is linked to Finland's position as an advanced partner of NATO. There's nothing special and nothing new in itself. The chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, asked about the role of the EU and this is very important. If we look at the civilian crisis management operation of the EU, Iraq and EUAM, it is a very important part, and Finland took the initiative in setting up this EU mission. And then, too, if we are to bring about these returns, they must be brought about at EU level and there must be pressure —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u115	Thank you. — List of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u116	Mr President! The Government report is quite good overall. The operation is small for us at least for the time being. However, I would like to draw attention to a number of factors. Since Finland is part of an international operation, we have little decision-making power over what forces we train. I see a great risk that if we do not look at things long enough, at worst it can lead to our troops fighting some of the troops we themselves have trained in five years' time. It would be important for the situation in Iraq to be stabilised — a country where the population has become increasingly polarised in Shiia, Sunni and Kurdish camps. It would be important for the national armed forces to be multi-ethnic. Ethnicly built troops are playing with fire in a country where the risk of internal decay is high. Mr President! Finland has the best cop in the world. It is appreciated and trusted more than any other organisation in Finland. This would be an export product that Iraq really needed instead of soldiers. I would particularly like to highlight the situation in Basra, South Iraq. Since the 2003 war, Basra has been in constant turmoil. In practice, the area is Shiite and is quite its own, compared to many other Shia-dominated regions. British troops in the area during the 2003 occupation and since then US troops have been forced to fight against, among other things, the Mahdi army, suffering significant losses. The fighters from Basra have been one of the cornerstones of the Iraqi armed forces in the fight against Isis. Now that Isis is militaryly defeated, these fighters have returned with their weapons to Basra. Given the population structure of Basra, where 80% are under 30 years of age, there is a serious problem of methamphetamine and crime in the region and, last but not least, the lack of fresh water. Basra is located on the Shatt al-Arab river near the mouth of the Gulf. Since the river is dammed on the upper river’s side of the river from which the water is directed to agriculture, this has led to the river’s drying downriver. This, on the other hand, has led to an upward rise in salty seawater, which has also contaminated groundwater. Clean fresh water is essential for man’s survival, and solving this problem is vital. Mr President! Finland has completely exceptional expertise in the development and training of clean water and police activities. I was just familiar with a Finnish invention that works with solar energy and converts 3500 litres of salt water into drinking water per hour. Such technology could play a crucial role in the security of the region. Could we think that we are going to pay particular attention to the Basra region, both in terms of development aid and other aid, before it is a new source of conflict? It is much cheaper to prevent conflict before it bursts into flames than to extinguish the flame by war. Should we look for long-term plans that would really do Basra as a whole and, therefore, Iraq as a whole? I would also like to express my special thanks for the valuable work that CMI has done in particular to find peaceful solutions, both in Iraq and elsewhere in the world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u117	Mr President! So now we are going to send 80 soldiers to education, advice and administration next year. By no means are we alone there. There are a huge number of countries in the international arena under the leadership of the United States of America. In an anti-Isil operation and a coalition. There are about 9,000 soldiers there, and besides us, Sweden, Norway and Denmark are also involved in the Nordic countries. A lot has been said about the fact that Isil is no longer in possession of about 2% of the land area. This is no important information because Isil has infiltrated the various cities and settlements, and this in itself is nothing particularly incriminating for a small 2% of the area. Previously on "The Vampire Diaries"... Isil held 40% of the land area in Iraq. The situation in Iraq will certainly continue for many years to be very unstable, not just because of this threat by Isil, but because of internal problems. Particular attention must be paid to this anti-Sunny anti-Shiia, which is not in any way getting any better, but in some places even getting worse, as has happened in Basra, where there have also been the ecological damage already mentioned here on farmland and the lack of drinking water is absolutely shocking. The country will therefore remain very unstable and, apart from this anti-Sunny anti-Shiia issue, this question of Kurdistan is still topical. After all, there will be elections there at the end of this month, and they will go a long way to indicate the direction in which Kurdistan is going — bearing in mind that there was such a referendum on independence, which proved to be a very unsuccessful measure, because after all, it did not come to nothing when the central government, even with its very military efforts, had thwarted this project of independence. But the Kurds are still there and are a problem because, among other things, the Kurds still have these regional requirements for these oil fields, which are very crucial there. Well, why don't we take a look at this from the perspective of Finland? It is good that Finnish soldiers are given international training here. It improves the interoperability of troops and such international expertise, which is also very necessary in our own military exercises here in Finland and in the defence of Finnish soil. International issues are becoming more and more important. As I mentioned earlier, Finns have trained over 3,000 soldiers, which is not little, and so the training activity continues. This Isil is a very difficult opponent. It is not only here in Iraq, it is spread around the world, and the leaders of Isil have specifically called for the transition to the countries of origin from which these terrorists originally went to Iraq. There were thousands of them, tens of thousands at that most serious stage. And, as I said before, the threat is also about Finland because these tentacles extend to different parts of the world and also to Finland, and the protection police have to take this matter seriously. From this point of view, too, it is very important that we contribute to this destruction of Isil on all sides. Then, as far as this role in Finland is concerned, more than 2000 asylum seekers have voluntarily returned from Finland and, of course, this activity can continue even better when the situation is calmed down there. It is therefore very justified for Finland to be involved in this project, and it is good that we have been unanimous in this decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u118	Mr President! As many speakers have said in agreement, it is important that Finland assumes international responsibility and actively participates in peacekeeping and crisis management. The security situation in Iraq remains unstable and the challenge is to stabilise and rebuild the regions that have been liberated from ISIS. It is also important to help Iraq to create the conditions for democratic governance. Iraq needs a government that takes care of human rights, maintains stability in the country, respects the Constitution and the Kurdish self-government. According to this Government report, Finland is reducing its troops from cooperation in education and training in the security sector In Iraq, about 100 soldiers to about 80 soldiers. This is a good direction, and the Left Alliance can support the Government report. However, the Left Alliance's Parliamentary Group considers it important that Finland now also undertakes to target its assistance to other sectors, such as reconstruction, civilian crisis management and humanitarian aid. The emphasis should be placed on non-military activities. Mr President! At the same time, there is also a report on Finland's participation in NATO's new training mission in Iraq. It would have been highly justified to deal with NATO's new training operation in the same report as this operation in Iraq. However, this has not been done, although these two operations are clearly linked to national preparations and they also have significant operational interfaces in the area of operation. So now the OIR mission in Iraq will be dealt with as a report in plenary and the NATO training mission will only be dealt with as a report in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is also noteworthy that neither training operation has an actual UN mandate, and that is why the Government has provided Parliament with a report under the Military Crisis Management Act in the case of the OIR mission in Iraq. The nature and circumstances of the operation have also supported the preparation of the report. However, in the case of NATO, we consider the Government to be problematic. On 10 August 2018, the President of the Republic and the Ministerial Committee of the Government on Foreign and Security Policy stated that Finland will participate in the NATO Training Mission. In Iraq, no more than five soldiers had been reported to Parliament. The detailed explanatory statement in section 3 of the Government’s proposal on military crisis management states that if Finland were to participate in military crisis management by a very small group of up to ten persons, the Government should report this matter to the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs before making a proposal for a decision. However, this has not been done. In addition, the mission and purpose of the new NATO operation remain unclear in the report. The added value of NATO's new training mission in training Iraqi troops is also unclear. Furthermore, the report does not describe in more detail the tasks in which Finnish trainers may participate at a later stage. In the opinion of the Left Alliance's parliamentary group, it is therefore not justified for Finland to participate in NATO's new training mission in Iraq. There are clear shortcomings in the report received by Parliament. Finland’s resources as a small country are limited, so resources should be concentrated on their own strengths and carefully selected operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u119	Mr President! It is a good thing that this extension of the OIR mission will also allow some reflection on the situation in Iraq as a whole and analyse the country in which the Finnish peacekeepers are currently operating. The Group of the Greens supports this continuation of the operation for next year. As has been said here, the political situation and the security situation in the country have changed in the sense that Isil is very far-fetched and is living at an artistic point where it should perhaps be possible to focus more on other conditions for development in the country, education, the employment of young people, the position of women and so on. South Iraq and the Basra region have been mentioned in particular in this debate. I worked for the UN there in 2003 after Saddam Hussein fell, and it was interesting to see these famous Mesopotamian swamps not only as an ecological whole but also as a cultural area. After all, there are such swamp Arabs living on boats from floating islands to others, and this is a very unique cultural entity, which, unfortunately, during Saddam Hussein's time, was attempted to destroy, to dam the river in such a way that the waters would stop there in the swamp Arab region, and it was because these were Saddam's political opponents. It is now unfortunate to note that there are other ecological problems here in the Basra region. The rise of salt in drinking water and irrigation water in the fields is causing an ecological crisis and hence also a social crisis, and I agree that this should be addressed urgently. In this respect, cooperation with the UN and UN organisations is also important for Finland. The kind of thing that it is also good to look at in this context is the current cohesion of Iraq as a whole. If you look at these Kurdish regions in the north, the peshmerga forces that we have supported there, the central Iraqi regime in Baghdad and then, for example, southern Basra, you can of course ask what elements of the country's cohesion will be maintained, and this cohesion is, of course, very important for security. Back in the day, we saw a situation where there was already military tension between the Peshmerga forces and Baghdad. Of course, a situation in which Finland supports parties who would then fight with one another is not in any way possible. Perhaps, Mr President, a reflex to the past, that of course this situation also gives rise to the question of what has been wrong in Iraq since the fall of Saddam Hussein in 2003. After all, in Iraq, the international community, largely driven by the USA, chose the line that old Saddam Hussein's supporters, the Ba'ath members, are very much isolated from society. They lost their jobs, their posts, the army was cleared of these supporters of Saddam Hussein. Many then asked what might happen to these people. As we awaited that response in our time, some of these old Arab socialists were radicalized and became supporters of this Isil movement. Then they grabbed the gun in a completely different context. I also think that the international community could learn something from this about how people are integrated into the system after conflicts and how such a boil, when it is born, will erupt through something if people become as if unfit for their own society and feel that they are uninvolved or discriminated against, whatever their background. Today, of course, Mr President, when you look at the outcome of the elections in Iraq, you wonder how, for example, this al-Sadr policy, in relation to the West, is going to settle. After all, he has received support in his time with very anti-Western themes and, of course, when we are conducting an operation involving the Western countries, including Finland, we must hope that there will be no such extra hatred of the West. It would create an extra security risk for our soldiers as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u120	Mr President! In my earlier speech, I ended with the wish and the idea that Finland would build up this political vision here in Parliament, in Parliament, also for Finland's way of participating in the international state of reconstruction following the collapse of different societies, i.e. military action to halt the progress of military action and subsequent reconstruction and so on. One part of this chain is, of course, the humanitarian work carried out with development cooperation funds. I referred earlier to the fact that a very large proportion, or very large, of 40%, was cut by this government from development cooperation funds, precisely the money that is being used to help society to get on its feet at that delicate stage in society, to manage matters as independently as possible. When this government started, the Government also set itself the goal of having 90 Finnish peacekeepers around the world. However, quite quickly the government had to send Finnish peacekeeping operation soldiers to various smoking places, and it is quite reasonable and understandable that this should be done. But I also think that this was an indication that Finland was not very well prepared for the situation that we need to send resources from the Defence Administration, the Foreign Affairs Administration, the Ministry of Interior and so on. However, even with this money talking about tens of millions of euros, it would be good if we had a clearer common parliamentary understanding of what the Finnish contribution to the various conflicts in the world is, which are the tools we can use to move around the world. I would also like to refer to the opinion of the Committee on Defence on this NATO training mission. It does help to underline what I have just said. In other words, there is also a unanimous view in this statement that the intentions of this NATO training mission are somewhat unclear, which is ultimately the aim of this operation on the Finnish side. That is the committee's common desire that the committee should be informed immediately after there is some idea of this. We can't sneak into these operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u121	President! This is the fourth time that Parliament has dealt with Finland's participation in the fight against Isil and in the stabilisation of Iraq in the form of a report. The mission started at the request of the Iraqi Foreign Minister to the UN Secretary-General to provide training and material support for his country. In action against Isil. This is an extensive operation involving all the Nordic countries and the EU countries. The operation has produced results: Only 2% of Iraq's territory is in Isil's possession. However, the expert hearings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs made it clear how the organisation continues to pose a significant threat to both Iraq and international security. The consolidation work must therefore continue. Through training and advice, we will develop the capacity of the Iraqi and Iraqi security forces to combat Isil and support the strengthening of regional stability and security. The continuation of the mission is important in order to eradicate the breeding ground for terrorism and improve the country's living conditions. There are major problems, particularly in southern Iraq. The poor ecological situation in South Iraq is reflected in salt-rich contaminated water and seawater rising deeper and deeper inland, resulting in a shortage of decent drinking water and also of food as agricultural conditions continue to deteriorate. Weak public services, water and electricity problems and unemployment are causing unrest and the threat of a humanitarian crisis. The stabilisation of Iraq is now at the crossroads. In addition to military crisis management, there is an increasing need for social consolidation as comprehensively as possible. This means, among other things, the rehabilitation of infrastructure, the recovery of economic activity, the development of vocational training in Iraq and the training of police officers. Finland has a special role to play in civilian crisis management. Finland participates with five police trainers Police training for the Isil coalition and two experts for the EU civilian crisis management mission to support security sector reform. The main emphasis on the stabilisation of Iraq is gradually shifting from crisis management to non-military action, as has been said many times here. It is therefore important to develop contacts and relations with Iraq in a broad sense. Finland will endeavour to open an embassy in Baghdad next year. Reviving economic relations and trade and participating in the reconstruction of the country also offer Finland new opportunities. The long-term and broad support of the international community for the stabilisation of Iraq will not succeed unless Iraq itself is able to take a greater role and responsibility in the development of its country. Political stability is, of course, a key factor in the development of the country. So the parliamentary elections were held in Iraq in May and the turnout was very low and there is not yet a functioning government in Iraq. Of course, we all know that the political situation in Iraq is very complex, but hope that Iraq will have a viable government as soon as possible to stabilise society and develop the living conditions of the various parts of the country. It is important that the participation in the Iraqi mission should continue to be decided by means of a reporting procedure. The parliamentary committee's deliberations will enable us to get a good look at the security situation in the country, the overall stabilisation and the role of Finland in the operation. Finland participates in the stabilisation of Iraq with its own strengths and international responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u122	Mr President! I thank the Government for its report on Finland's continued participation in security sector education cooperation in Iraq. The report has covered the issue comprehensively, for example, by providing training to others to develop our own defence capabilities, and then on the other hand, there is this holistic approach. Mr President! It is indeed a challenge to organise a comprehensive crisis management between the EU and the Member States. There are different kinds of literature about this, including Svenja Post, which has raised the different dimensions, that how it really is challenging. What has already been said here is what Finland believes is that each Member State should focus on its own strengths, and then, in practice, it would probably mean precisely this export of education, improving the rights and status of women and girls, and also environmental know-how which has now become a very important role. But, of course, it is essential how this is coordinated, that each country then focuses on its best areas of expertise. Finally, I would like to draw attention to something that has come to the debate several times today: the security of our own crisis management actors. Well, first of all, it is of course important that our soldiers or special civilian crisis management experts are not wounded or killed in operations and, of course, it is virtually impossible for us politicians to justify it if security is weakened so that they go back in zinc coffins to their own women and men. It will be difficult to explain it to anyone in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u123	Mr President! Currently, Finland participates in an OR operation, which is a multi-country coalition led by the United States and was launched in 2014. It involves 26 countries with some 9,000 soldiers. The role of the OIR operation shall be to coordinate and enhance: International cooperation against Isil. The total strength of Finns in the operation is currently up to 100 people. The International Coalition provides military support for the Isil action, prevents foreign fighters from entering conflict zones, tries to stop the funding channels for rebels and terrorists, and undermine extremist Islamic ideology. In addition, the objective of the mission is to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in the region. For Finland, the stabilisation of Iraq is particularly important, as a significant proportion of refugees from Iraq come to Finland. The starting point is that each country will decide for itself what kind of support it will provide. The Finnish crisis management team in Iraq consists of a training department, a protection department and a staff and support department. Finns train Iraqi security authorities in a course form at training bases throughout Northern Iraq and participate in training and counselling activities not only in Northern Iraq but also elsewhere in the Iraqi region. The ORI mission differs from other crisis management operations in Finland. The status of troops in Iraq is not defined by a common international agreement in the region, but based on the so-called exchange of notes between Finland and Iraq. Finland has participated in the operation since 2015. Finland's participation is coming to an end at the end of this year, but in June it was agreed that the ORI mission will continue until the end of next year with the strength of 80 soldiers. The report points out that the participants in the operation do not have uniform rules for the use of force, but each country gives its troops its own rules. This is also the case for Finland. In the case of Finnish troops, the possible use of force is based on the individual's right of self-defense recognised by international law. Mr President! Last July, the NATO Summit decided to set up a similar training mission. The aim is to create sustainable national security structures to maintain stability in the country. On 10 August, the President of the Republic and the Ministerial Committee of the Government on Foreign and Security Policy (UTVA) stated that Finland will participate in NATO's new training mission in Iraq by individual staff officers and trainers. This would include up to five soldiers, of whom the first staff officer would begin his duties from the beginning of next year. Those five soldiers in the new NATO training operation are included in the previous figure. The NATO-led training mission would focus on training Iraqi military trainers and promoting reform of the security sector and clearing up traps. The team's strength would be about 580 soldiers. The troops would rely on the self-protection and maintenance of the OIR bases. These two training operations share a common objective and remain part of the interface in disorderly Iraq.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u124	Mr Vanhanen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-13-ps-83.u125	Mr President! I would just like to make a brief speech on this very preparatory NATO training operation, which Mr Mäkipää spoke about just now, when it was suggested here earlier that there was some confusion about how to deal with it. It is in Parliament's deliberations in the normal way. At this very moment, the Government has reported on this and the Committee on Foreign Affairs will respond to it within the normal time frame. Of course, it would have been a good thing if these two, could have said, in a certain way, had been in one and in the same reading, but just as Mr Mäkipää said just now, this OR mission decision has been taken at the beginning of June, and it would have been a little strange if the President and Government of the Republic had waited two months for a line to be drawn up just because it was known that NATO might be considering or preparing a training operation with perhaps two or five troops. But that report is normally before us, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs will take a position on that at the time.
