ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision is now made on the question of equality in education between Touko Aalto and others. The debate on the interim issue ended at the plenary session on 28 February 2018. With the support of Touko Aalto Cloud Torst, the debate has put forward a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u2	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u3	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the direct payments to agriculture from the European Union in respect of support for young farmers. The proposal has been very welcome because it concerns young farmers who are at the beginning of their careers and have often invested large sums of money in their farms. Aid for young farmers may continue to be granted for a maximum period of five years, but the maximum period for granting aid for five years is no longer reduced by the number of years between the start of farm management or the submission of an application for support for the first young farmer following the start of farm management. The proposal also concerns young farmers who have started holding since 2013. Young farmers who have started holding before 2014 will be subject to previous European Union legislation on the maximum period for granting aid. I think that the proposal is necessary and appropriate, and there seems to be no obstacle to this ending up in the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u4	Mr President! This issue is important in many ways, but it is also important in the sense that these support schemes need to be examined and developed from time to time, not only in relation to agriculture, but also elsewhere. Parliament has an important role not only to legislate new laws and to make the future in that respect, but also to consider what existing legislation and standards are. For my part, I am now entering the service of the municipality to Nurmijärvi as mayor of the largest municipality in Finland, and I thank everyone for their cooperation and these years. It has been a pleasure to work with everyone in this Chamber, each Member of Parliament who sits here. It's a great job. It's a valuable job. There's a lot of important work to be done here. I hope that the value of this house and respect for this work will be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u5	Madam President! We all wish Mr Outi Mäkelä every success on his chosen path and thank him for his good cooperation. I'm sure we'll see each other in a lot of situations. Madam President! This proposal is very important, and the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament attaches great importance to the fact that, as has been said here, these shortcomings can be examined and corrected, and we are pleased to welcome this change, which has come to us on a very short time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u6	Mr President! I too would like to add my thanks for the excellent job in this house. I've been here for over 30 years myself. But on this actual matter, which is now under discussion: It is very important that this type of solution can now be made. Farmers today are living with a crisis of profitability in order to fight for whether this industry can continue. There are many reasons for this, and one of the main reasons is that last year was a complete year of disappearing in almost the whole country, and then it comes down to the fact that trade is cheaper and that the producer cannot cover the costs of production and industry. Against this background, the internal functioning of the food chain must be rebuilt. That is what is being done under the leadership of Minister Jari Leppä, and hopefully in due course we will also have a Fair Trade Councillor to monitor the functioning of the market. The question is that the strongest party in the chain, that is to say the one with shelf space, is sovereignly determined by the percentage reduction that industry has to make every year when selling products to the market. Similarly, the industry has little or no ability to account for the producer, because the industry too is under heavy pressure from trade. Of course, industry is afraid to talk about this because it knows that the shelf space is owned by the store and industry if anyone needs that shelf space so that the products can be sold through it. In this sector, we are now faced with very great challenges and it is hoped that the reform of the European Union's agricultural policy in this respect will also provide the means and means. I know that the Ministry and the Minister have done their best to deal with this challenge now. There will soon be a shortage of food in the world, we will be challenged by climate change, and that is when those producers will be needed. That is why we cannot afford to go bankrupt once and for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u7	Madam President! This is an important issue, and I think we need to consider new ways in agriculture. The solution is that the trade and distribution route would provide a better starting price for agricultural products is unrealistic as long as it can be freely imported from abroad, and in the EU it will be possible to do so forever. Instead, as the size of the farm grows, further processing to make the bread grain producer a bakery one day and so on would make sense. Similarly, in the development of special products, special varieties, as in the technical side of Tekes, the agricultural side should be able to achieve more innovative product solutions where the Finnish farmer would not be in such a brutal competitive situation, either in relation to trade or to farmers in other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u8	Madam President! Just as Mrs Lehti and also Mrs Anttila, in their own speeches, addressed this issue very well, so we should now, of course, now in this country, this EU bureaucracy and the related subsidies, so that the future of agriculture is secured. But the big thing we should do in Finland — I talked about it yesterday in this Chamber — is that we are going through major campaigns in this country to respect the principle of fair trade. When we get coffee from Africa, Kenya or some other country, it's a great thing, but when does this fair trade meet a Finnish farmer? As the position of the Finnish farmer has been downhill for the past few years, I think that these central movements and the Finnish trade should gradually understand it now, as Sirkka-Liisa Anttila well said, that there is a food shortage in the world and that we have the cleanest groundwater in the world, the cleanest soil in the world, the cleanest climate in the world, we have every opportunity to make this a new growth brand that will certainly grow ever bigger after decades. That is why we have to keep this machinery in order and every hector in the field and then understand that this is national wealth and it is also our best security of supply, a fair trade in which the Finnish farmer has the right share and the right amount of income comes from the valuable work he does. This fair trade should also apply to the Finnish farmer, not just the Kenyan coffee producer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u9	Madam President! When it comes to agricultural policy in the European Union and Finland, it is not just a producer's point of view or an aspect of the food chain, but, in fact, it is the consumer who is very much affected. Public support for agricultural products means, in practice, that different regions, including here in the north, can produce good regional, local clean food and it is close to the consumer, it is regional food, it is local food. These aspects must always be borne in mind when we talk about agricultural subsidies, which have sometimes been a very unfortunate crack in the fact that why a branch of industry should be supported. The fact that this has been difficult for years still has its own burden on the agricultural sector, and, of course, solutions are needed at that time, that we are also looking at the sector as a result of extra income. It is also, in a sense, a pity that this international policy of sanctions and sanctions has contributed to the success of the Finnish agricultural and food chain in particular. In this respect, we sometimes have to hope or dare to hope that we will have solutions to achieve normal trade, so that Finnish products are also very attractive on our eastern neighbour's side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u10	Madam President! A year or two ago, Parliament dealt with the agricultural policy report and we also had an opinion in the Committee on the Environment. In particular, one point was left in mind about water. It is quite incomprehensible that more bottled water is imported into Finland than Finns export bottled water abroad. In fact, I do not think we should have any particular need to import any bottled water into this country: we have an excellent water technology and brewing industry, and so on, the crater water is actually better than the bottled water in many countries. Of course, there's a big role to play at the store. I encourage the store to take on its shelves domestic bottled waters if they take water. And then, of course, there is the role of consumers: when you're on shelves, you might want to see where the water came from — preferably from Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u11	Madam President! We did indeed have agricultural issues here yesterday in relation to taxation and how these crop losses are now being compensated by tax relief on light fuel oil. We are currently dealing with this issue in the tax section, and it is up-to-date in itself. But I wanted to ask you to take the floor because, in my opinion, it was very well said here that our agriculture has the advantage of a certain kind of clean food, and I fully agree with that. We have a lot of good, we have pure nature. I hope that there will continue to be plenty, and I also see agriculture as a competitive asset for both clean food and local food production. I believe that consumers very much appreciate domestic and that food, for example, is close to production. In fact, in my speech, I also wanted to underline a certain ethical production of food, which I believe is a real asset for agriculture and for Finland as a whole. I believe that organic production and, for example, animal welfare is really important now and certainly more important in the future, because I believe that many people more and more in their own consumer habits pay attention to how food has been produced, whether animal welfare has been taken care of. I personally think this is important and I have noticed from various attitudes that more and more Finns are also paying attention to these issues. That is why, President, I think this is very important now that this new animal welfare law is coming. It is in the consultation, it has received some criticism — quite rightly, I believe — from animal welfare organisations, for example, as to whether its objectives are ambitious enough. I think they should be, the law should be further developed before it is brought to Parliament. Among other things, the animal welfare group in Parliament, which consists of many different parties, has taken the view that the form proposed in this law should be tightened up further before it is given to us here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u12	Madam President! Mrs Rossi rightly raised the point that, when we talk about agricultural aid, there is often some negative tone to it, and yet when we talk about supporting our own agriculture, it is a matter of very important values. It is a question of self-sufficiency, of security of supply, of ecology, of animal welfare, just as Mr Viitanen has raised it here, of local food and health and safety, of food purity and safety. That is why I think that we should have a positive attitude in principle that we want to support, that we want to promote and safeguard these important values. This government proposal specifically talks about the situation of young farmers and subsidies for young farmers. If we look at young farmers in our country, yes, where there is a need for that faith in the future and where there is a need for the prospects that can prevent fatigue and problems of working life, which are quite common among farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u13	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Yesterday we had a rather long and thorough debate on the situation in Finnish agriculture and on how climate change and exceptional weather conditions, which farmers themselves cannot influence, make it difficult for them to make a living. Yesterday there was talk of energy aid to compensate for the loss of crops, and I think it was a good, excellent way and a solution for Mr Lepä, the Minister of Agriculture, to find a solution of this kind that met these requirements and which enabled these farmers to be helped beyond their own problems. This proposal refers to young farmers, and for many young farmers, the faith in the future is currently under test after such a year, but otherwise Finnish agriculture has also been facing major challenges for a long time. That is why we must do everything in our power to ensure that Finnish food is in a better position in the future. Here, too, Minister of Agriculture Leppä has continued the good work that was begun at the time by Minister of Agriculture Jari Koskinen, namely the expansion of the labelling of the origin of these foods, which was also carried forward in a good way by Minister Orpo when he was Minister of Agriculture. Yesterday we discussed how, under the leadership of Leppa, the origin labelling requirements have been extended, and his aim and our objective is that restaurant food should also include the origin of meat and fish in the future. It would allow each of us to decide whether we want to support good Finnish food production in this way as well, but also to buy clean, traceable Finnish food. That's a good goal, and when
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u14	Mr President! This government proposal improves the position of young farmers, and it is entirely correct. Then I would like to point out that when someone makes comments on agricultural subsidies in public from time to time, I would point out that we are a Member State of the European Union and that the European Union is applying the common agricultural policy, it is no longer a national choice, what kind of system we follow, but we commit ourselves to the agreements that we have made towards the EU. However, when we want to safeguard the jobs of Finnish food production and the food industry in the future, I would stress that, as the next programming period approaches, I believe that the line that seems to be taking place now is that the EU sets us targets and the Member State manages the means by which these objectives are achieved. For example, one subject that has caused a lot of criticism among farmers is supervision, and if we in Finland get to what I believe the Minister will certainly do all he can, then we will go under supervision, for example, in the direction that we follow a good Finnish administrative culture. This means that we do not go ahead with the penalties, but we give people the opportunity to correct unintentional errors so that they are not sanctioned but can be corrected within a certain time frame and, as it were, cooperate and help farmers and yet respect the law and go for the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u15	Mr President! This government proposal on support for young farmers is very much to be welcomed. It is said that sometimes hairs get up when it comes to Finnish food production and the role of farmers, producers. We're in such a hurry. At the moment, the farms are going bankrupt, many are going to quit, are not going to be able to cope because productivity is so low. This is alarming because we consumers want domestic food, local food, and that is not possible if that production is not profitable. Even back home, my nephew runs a house, and I'm worried sometimes. He's got to come up with all the stuff he can do on that farm. Now that we are also talking about the situation of producers today, of course we are also talking about the Animal Welfare Act, which will be renewed after 20 years of break. It's very challenging. It also includes farmed animals in addition to wild animals and pets. I therefore hope that all animal welfare and animal care providers will cooperate very much with producers on this too, so that we can have a good law for animals, and also so that producers can exercise their profession. Minister Leppä has promised to come to the event that will take place in the Citizens' Info during the spring. Indeed, animal welfare is very important, and if we look at the future of the producer, it is also in the interests of producers and of all of us,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u16	Madam President! It is very important to take account of the support and situation of young farmers, and in that sense the proposal is good. We must ensure that in the future farmers and meat producers will also remain in Finland and that we enjoy domestic food, clean, even humanely and ethically produced meat. The Animal Protection Act is indeed being reformed, and good speeches have already been made here about animal welfare. It is extremely terrible when we read about animal welfare offences that take place on a pig farm, on a horse farm, on a cattle farm. Among other things, these have been public in recent times. How can these be prevented so that farmers have the strength, the resources and, of course, the eye that controls it? I would like to call on the Animal Protection Commissioner, who is currently lacking in Finland, absolutely, although we do not have an old-age Ombudsman, which would also be needed. It is very important that we pay attention to these issues in Finland, and in particular that we should be proud of the meat produced in Finland, the grain — everything that is involved in agriculture. A few years ago there was a very dramatic situation when it became apparent that we had a few small slaughterhouses in Finland where things did not go quite as well as they were supposed to. There were omissions and abuses in the slaughter of animals. These are things that I do not think our society can endure. They are unsustainable, and I personally see that young people are changing the world and that young farmers are also seeing with new and different eyes the situation and the future. This should and should be encouraged to ensure that animals are treated well, that abuses are brought up and then, when these animal-protection offences are committed, they become adequate penalties and bans on keeping animals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u17	Madam President! I was now enthused to ask for another speech, when only now I noticed that the minister himself was here. I hope that you will now hear these greetings, which has also come in this Chamber today on behalf of this animal welfare law. It is indeed, when it was said here, intolerable that too often we read the news about these animal abuse. That is simply something that needs to be addressed more quickly, faster, more effectively. And, of course, the Minister is well aware of the points which have been criticised in this draft law and which are still seen as too lax in the area of animal welfare. But, Mr President, I would like to reiterate that, in the presence of the Minister, I fully agree with the need for a representative of animal welfare. It would not cost much, and the SDP, for example, has been putting it forward in its own options all the time, and in the last term, when we were in the government negotiations, we set up this post as a representative of animal welfare, and now we should get it back on track and also put it on a permanent footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u18	Madam President! I think it's a good conversation. I'm more of a colleague of mine. Eestilä's approach to good governance. In my view, the sanctions imposed by the error of the authority itself in the agricultural sector on the farmer is disproportionate and unfair. For example, a farmer has no legal status when, due to a miscalculation made by that authority, he is forced to give up subsidies, has to pay back subsidies, and an adjustment is made when it is made, it can take a year. What is important is that, in this Chamber, we also emphasise the survival of farmers, which is what comes from, unfortunately, the mistreatment of animals. So the most important thing is this whole picture. Not to make Finns by assuming that they are animal abusers, but the question is that once a person has been beaten to pieces, then it will also be the fate of the animals on the farm. That's the whole thing. And it is hoped that this welfare law will take these factors into account as a whole and thereby improve that well-being. I think it is important, even if it is formal, that it is the role of the animal welfare commissioner. If we are now bringing a food agent into the food chain so that the field is open to trade and producers, then I think that chain should continue all the way to the farm.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-02-ps-16.u19	In view of the start of the large committee meeting, we are interrupting this debate.
