ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 11/2018 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 25 October 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u2	Madam President! I would like to suggest that we approve in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u3	I support Mr Paatero's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u4	Sirpa Paatero, supported by Matti Sem, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u5	Madam President! This deterioration in the conditions of employment is also rejected in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u6	Madam President! I support Mr Paatero's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u7	Sirpa Paatero, supported by Matti Sem, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u8	Madam President! Similarly, we do not want to undermine the conditions of employment of officials, so it is proposed that we reject them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u9	Madam President! I support Mr Paatero's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u10	Sirpa Paatero, supported by Matti Sem, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u11	Madam President! Here too, the same logic, that is to say, I propose that we reject it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u12	Madam President! I support Mr Paatero's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u13	Sirpa Paatero, supported by Matti Sem, has proposed that the entry into force and transitional provisions be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u14	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u15	Madam President! The number of drones and unmanned aircraft is growing rapidly. In fact, there are some 2,200 aircraft in professional use, but estimates of private drone users are as large as 50,000 to 100,000, which is actually no one in Finland has an accurate idea of how many of these drones, drones, are used by Finns. This is, in fact, a concern that should be followed better in Finland and even wondered whether these should be recorded and registered in some way at the time when the purchases are made. As prices fall, they are likely to increase further in the future. In the Committee on Defence, we discussed this legislation and stated that these drones, drones that are not manned, contain an important aspect of national security, and that is why these measures, which are now being proposed, are necessary. Our authorities need more powers, both from the police and from the Defence Forces. We have areas that have already been marked as no drone Zones today, and then there are also temporary restrictions, but we also need faster measures. In fact, we are heading in the direction that more and more of the violations of airspace in the future may occur in such a way that we do not even know who is actually doing it or where it is being done. This kind of drone can be flown from the other side of the globe with new technology and in the 5G era, and the plane may come to visit Finland and come back, and then we are facing a completely new situation. On the other hand, this increases the opportunities for smuggling, espionage or even a completely different kind of danger when, for example, our Air Force practices or our planes at Helsinki Airport or at other airports are or when there are different public events and others. We authorities must be better able to deal with these, and this legislation specifically strengthens the argument that the Defence Forces have a better chance of living in time and addressing this new security threat.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u17	Madam President! On behalf of the Committee on Defence, as Mr Heinonen did, work has been done on this issue, and I would like to draw attention in this connection to one of the key points to which Mr Heinonen referred. This is a growing technological sector. Now the debate focuses mainly on drones, flying systems, which can indeed be flown from the other side of the globe, but technology is still evolving in such a way that, in addition to air traffic, there will be more and more equipment in the interface between equipment and the electronic world, such as in water transport or elsewhere in the future. Through it it would be very necessary for us in Parliament and ministries to have a cross-administrative approach to these drones and the threat that drones bring. Drones are a hobby for many, and good so, probably a good hobby, but this kind of unregulated situation also leads to many security threats. The threat to air transport is obvious when flying over 500 feet, at 150 metres where air travel is taking place, but flying above public events is also a clear threat to public safety and national security. Of course, a mere drop of a drone causes a person irreplaceable damage in many ways, but what is there on board a drone if someone deliberately tries to drop such a crowd? Then the damage can be much greater. Personally, I would support the idea that, in the spirit of this report by the Committee on Defence, the general competence of drones still lies with the police, but I would like to see society go in the direction of registering such technological developments and the risks it entails. Users who use drones would be in the register of the authorities and, therefore, only a flight device, the risks of which I have just mentioned, would be better known to the authorities, but also the purpose for which these devices are used would be to register either for recreational purposes, for professional use or for any other use. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u18	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the law on the Defence Forces, which would include provisions on the interference of a drone and an unmanned aircraft. The powers of the Defence Forces would be so limited that their use would always be related to the implementation of the statutory tasks of the Defence Forces. The police would continue to have general competence in the general area and there would be specific legal provisions for cooperation with the police. The number of drones and unmanned aircraft in Finland has increased considerably in recent years. It would seem that the purchase of various bulldozers is now a bit fashionable, and regulation is needed to use them. According to the proposal, there are currently some 50,000 or even 100,000 private users in Finland, as Mr Heinonen said, and there are some 2,200 professional operators. In addition, foreign actors can also be found in Finland. Unmanned aviation includes important aspects that endanger national security. Such a threat will require new powers for the safety authorities and the defence forces' ability to respond to the security threat posed by unmanned aviation has been left open to interpretation, particularly in the absence of jurisdictional provisions. The rules of jurisdiction will improve with this government's proposal. The lack of these powers has also significantly hampered the ability of the police, Border Guard, Customs and Criminal Sanctions Agency to intervene in drones and unmanned aircraft. The first batch of drugs has already been transported across prison walls with these drones. After all, such a drone is also an excellent device for smuggling goods or photographing terrain in the border zone. It is also very easy to describe the neighboring lady as she sunbathes in her own yard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u21	Madam President! It is high time that the seriousness of this issue was understood and finally taken seriously. In the Committee on Defence, we heard experts from a wide range and, as Mr Heinonen said in his own speech, there are important aspects of unmanned aviation that endanger national security. What is particularly worrying is, as has been said in several speeches, that no one in Finland seems to have an accurate idea of how many of these different gadgets are available, if this is the case. Indeed, the scale ranges from about 50,000 to 100,000, and this is an estimate, and this estimate has a huge throw. In the committee, we also drew attention to the fact that further work must also look at non-aeronautical drones — or, in that case, they are not drones if they are on land or at sea, but national safety can also be compromised by other remote control devices, whether at sea or on land. So there is still a lot of work to be done on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u22	Mr President! This government's proposal for a law amending the Defence Forces Act is very much to be welcomed. Technological progress, not only is it useful, but it also brings with it tools for criminals, as you have already told us here, ladies and gentlemen Heinonen and Kulmala. Indeed, Mr Kulmala has already mentioned these, drugs have already been taken inside the prison walls. Now that we are in the process of regulating these intelligence legislation packages, we should remember that these criminals are always one step ahead of us. That drone can be used, among other things, to observe places that are not normally accessible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u23	Madam President! The flying of Drone is certainly an interesting hobby, and indeed it can also be used for very useful purposes, for example in search situations, but at the same time it has to be said that dangerous situations are also increasing. On Mother’s Day, there was a serious incident at Helsinki–Vantaa when drone was flown in a restricted area near the airport, and other problems have been described here, including the transportation of drugs to prisons. Well, the general authority for supervision is indeed the responsibility of the police, as has been said, but now we are dealing with this Defence Forces legislation. I think it is also important that we get a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior to clarify these police powers, because the police should be able to find out whose aircraft is flying there in the sky, and there should also be very clear rules of play on when a drone can be interfered with. In that sense, I support this idea raised by Mr Kari about registration in these situations, so that we can monitor and prevent possible incidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u24	We have the people of the Ministry of the Interior in that gallery, and they immediately learned what was to be hoped for from our former Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u25	Madam President! This is indeed a necessary law, as has been said here, and it has been dealt with in a good spirit. Lennox technology is constantly evolving, and it is also very good that the law has been built into technology-neutrality. The starting point should be that when there is a new innovation that can do a lot of good things but possibly also bad things, the law would be proactively such that no separate review of the law would be necessary for every technological invention. This report also explicitly states that we are only taking a position on flying equipment, and in the Committee on Administration we drew particular attention to the fact that we should also look at other remote control equipment, especially autonomous equipment. In the future, autonomous technology will increase in a wide range of ways, and this is an issue at international level, because, for example, there is some debate in the United Nations about what should be done with autonomous weapon systems. This is in the direction of a debate that we should also have here in Finland, because it is at the centre of very fundamental ethical issues. Well, limiting the operation of drones in the preferred areas or, for example, in the border zone is, of course, a little lighter, but equally important, and I believe that it is also in the interests of the amateurs that we have clear legislation, which is also permanent, so that this does not need to be constantly updated. But I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that, in addition to paying attention to airborne equipment, we should also look at mobile equipment in other ways and start a wider debate in Finland on what we want from autonomous systems in the future and how they should be regulated, both in civil and possibly military use.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u26	Now the situation is that there are four requests for the floor. We have exactly 4 minutes, we do not take all these weeks, but I am offering you a debate or response. Which of these persons would like to make a reply?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u27	Mr President! Representative Heinonen well began to dismantle that bill, and this “nodronezone ” is at his place of destination. I was also pleased to see‘nophonezone’,which is related to our civil behaviour,that is,can it also help The use of telephones, especially in the event of an accident, is quite shocking. I've been to the death scene one time to help, and a lot of people came to it first to photograph and probably sell those pictures on the outside. So I think it is a morally reprehensible thing. It must be difficult to tackle it through legislation, but I would like to see such a civil debate on whether we are moving technology forward or whether technology is moving us forward in some way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u28	Madam President! I was also listening to an English professor in the Parliament’s Small Parliament some months ago about autonomous weapons systems and this technology leap. So this is not about slow progress, it is about the real revolution that is knocking at our doors. I would like to thank Mrs Räsä for her support for my proposal that drones, unmanned aircraft, should be included in the register.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u31	Mr President! Excellent speeches have been made here to correct and implement this law on the Defence Forces. I would like to raise it myself, as Mrs Parviainen has pointed out here, that technology is developing faster and faster, and it is precisely the drones that are carrying more and more. We're talking about the fact that these are the ones that start transporting people. These drones are very widely used, including on the agricultural and forestry side, for example, in the development of farming plans, and then, for example, in forestry, storm damage is seen, but forestry plans are also made with drones. It is a day-to-day tool for agriculture and forestry. But I agree with these that we can control this grey or so-called criminal activity with the registration of these devices.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u32	President! I agree with the statement that these drones must be able to be identified and then, at a later stage, also securely, controlledly captured and dropped from the sky if any threats are detected. I would also like to highlight the fact that these drones are an integral part of our new logistics and also reduce the carbon footprint of logistics, because these drones can carry small packages of medicines or hundreds of kilos of packages. Thus, we still have much regulation to do with the logistical distribution points of drones so that they can be brought into society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u33	Madam President! In Finland, especially in civilian use, excluding this government proposal on the Defence Forces, drone regulation has been lax, as the idea that different solutions can be made possible. But the further we go, the more we will probably have to assess whether some aspects of regulation need to be specified. On the other hand, it has come well, for example in this speech by Pirttilahti, how many different uses these unmanned drones have: we can check electricity lines, wind turbines, bridges, roofs, changes in animal populations, as we have seen here, for example, with regard to agriculture. But this kind of logistical use at this time has been quite small. The post office has tried this a few years ago, but apparently there has not yet been enough carrying capacity and also the economic benefit of using them. But if you think of Finland as a country of scattered settlement, a small population in a large area, then all the common sense says that this should be of particular benefit to Finland. And I hope that, in addition to these security aspects,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-26-ps-108.u34	Madam President! My first speech must have been partly overruled. That was a perfectly good speech in my opinion, even though the majority of the public did, and in it I raised the idea of this registration, and I am glad that it has been raised here on a wider scale. I personally believe that this is only the beginning of everything that will happen on robotics and automation, and Mrs Parviainen gave an excellent speech on this big picture. This case of Airisto, in which drones were also involved in some way in the news, also aroused the fact that today there is already a different kind of technology to drop down the aircraft, and they may again pose a different kind of threat and safety issue. This is a huge package, and perhaps it is the case that we need to look for solutions that are technologically neutral and, above all, that can be tackled.
