ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Mr Eija In a letter to Parliament dated 18.6.2018, Nivala has requested exemption from the post of representative since 26.6.2018 after being elected to the office of vicar of Ylivieska. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 5/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The report is presented by the chairman of the committee, Mr Puumala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u3	Mr President! Another important proposal and a report on the Committee on Culture. Not long ago we were discussing the law on high school and now we are dealing with the law on early childhood education. The existing early childhood education law would be repealed. The report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs also contains three legislative initiatives. After all, the focus of the bill is on the child’s best interests, raising the level of competence and improving the flow of information. The proposal is closely linked to early childhood education as part of the education system and provides a basis for ensuring educational equality for children, highlighting the pedagogically high-quality practices of early childhood education and the skills that support them. In the future, day care centres will work in multiprofessional teams of early childhood education teachers, early childhood education socionomists and early childhood care providers. These changes in the staff structure and the management of the day care centre would be subject to a record-long transition period of almost 12 years. The proposed new law on early childhood education will complete the administrative branch transfer of early childhood education from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to the Ministry of Education and Culture. That's significant, too. The whole path of education and training from early childhood to lifelong learning is increasingly the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Mr President! High-quality early childhood education is effective in stopping the cycle of underprivileged participation and improving the learning opportunities of the child in the school path. There are large differences in the growth conditions of children that affect the future of the child. Therefore, high-quality and target-oriented early childhood education and effective multi-professional cooperation must be ensured for all. The Government’s proposal emphasises the priority of the child’s interests in planning, organising and deciding on early childhood education. The proposed new law on early childhood education sets out the child’s best interests in a separate article with a stronger wording: the child must be protected against violence, bullying and harassment. It is important, for example, to promote a positive attitude towards the diversity of family forms and backgrounds of children. The child's own opinion should be taken more into account. The Committee on Education stresses the importance of accessibility in the everyday life of the family, i.e. that services can be easily and easily achieved, and, for example, the importance of providing adequate shift care for both the child and the family as a whole. Services must be available in so few less populated areas, in small municipalities than in different residential areas of large cities. The so-called local school path is important for the child and the family. The transition to pre-school and further comprehensive school must be smooth. Mr President! Perhaps the most important debate in this bill has been the changes in the tasks and titles of the professional groups. The debate on the structure of the staff has contributed to the somewhat unsuccessful wording in the detailed explanatory statement of the government's proposal, which the committee also drew attention to. It is quite correct to state the reasons for this paragraph, but it is forgotten to point out that the transitional provision of the law allows and guarantees the maintenance of eligibility for all the different educational backgrounds. The Committee on Education therefore stresses that, despite the wording of the explanatory memorandum to the Staff Structure Regulation, the transitional provision of the draft law, namely Article 75, ensures that a person who has acquired the qualifications of a kindergarten teacher in accordance with the law in force, whether a candidate in education or a socio-nomic background, is eligible for further action, including after the date 1 January 2030, both in the role of teacher of early childhood education and in the role of socionomist in early childhood education. Such a person shall also be eligible for duties which require the eligibility of a post as provided for in Article 25. Such would be the role of the head of the day care centre until 2030 and the role of a special teacher in early childhood education. The reform will not weaken the eligibility of existing staff in its long transition period and beyond. The status of students, i.e. those now in school, will also be safeguarded. The committee supports the proposal. Increasing the level of education and pedagogical skills of day care personnel is a key reform of the proposal to promote the quality of early childhood education. However, the committee expresses its concern in the report about the development of the role of nannies as a result of the reform and refers in this respect to its proposal for a statement on the precise follow-up of the reform. The implementation of high-quality early childhood education now and in the future requires the participation of all professional groups and seamless and multidisciplinary cooperation for the benefit of children. It goes without saying that everyone is needed on an equal footing. It is essential that all categories of staff should also be provided with the possibility of additional and additional flexible training corresponding to stricter eligibility requirements. It must be available throughout Finland and readily available. That is what the committee stresses. The paths of competence development must be simple, such that they are possible at all low thresholds and do not impose an unreasonable burden or unreasonable effort, excessively long study paths. Training must ensure that representatives of different groups of persons continue to have realistic prospects of progress in their careers. Mr President! The proposal calls for a significant increase in education in the educational field. Increasing education, whether in degree, in-service or in-service training, must be ensured by law-based experts at national level. This too must be done everywhere in Finland — when training places are increased, it is important that they are available everywhere in Finland. The committee intervenes in this, among other things, in the form of a statement. The place of study often correlates quite well with employment in regional terms. The reform aims at a significant increase in skills during and after the transition period. It must not, due to the concentration of training places, lead to the objective level of reform not being achieved in some parts of Finland as desired. The committee stresses that the educational development forum mentioned in the Government's proposal addresses concerns regarding career paths for all professional groups. There must also be an assessment of how a higher university of applied sciences graduate could obtain as flexiblely as possible additional knowledge in order to be the head of early childhood education. It will also assess how the previously acquired skills of socionomist will be identified and recognised in possible further training, and there the role of socionomist will also be defined as quickly as possible. That is also what the committee states in the report. President! With these arguments, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs proposes the following: Parliament adopts the bill of 2nd, 3rd and 4th of the Government's proposal without amendment. The Parliament, as amended, accepts the proposal of the Government, which includes a number of amendments, including the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Parliament rejects the legislative proposals contained in bill 62, 16 and 17. And Parliament accepts seven statements. The report contains five objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u4	All right, let's go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u5	Mr President! Early childhood education is a future investment. It improves the equality and learning outcomes of children and prevents exclusion. According to the OECD, the investment of the euro in early childhood education will generate up to EUR 7 more than any other investment in education. Only high-quality early childhood education, not just anything, can make the most of it. Quality is achieved especially by early childhood education staff, a sufficient number of skilled staff. It is good, therefore, that the new law will increase the level of competence of early childhood education staff, especially pedagogical skills. The Social Democrats are very much in favour of raising the level of competence. However, knowledge alone is not enough. There must be enough adults, and unfortunately this is not always the case in the everyday life of early childhood education. This is the problem. It is shortsighted that during this reign the quality of early childhood education has been weakened by increasing group sizes. There may be 24 children in the group of three adults instead of 21, up to 33 part-time. The government has also made another radical deterioration, which means that the right of children to participate in early childhood education has been weakened, i.e. the so-called subjective right has been limited. Some municipalities have introduced these handicaps in early childhood education, while others have not. Thus, the quality of early childhood education varies by municipality. So inequality between children has increased. This is a problem of mega-class inequality between young children. It is very regrettable that the new early childhood education law does not address these major shortcomings. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, the definition of the right to early childhood education should have been abolished and group sizes should have been restored to at least the previous level. The Sipilä government will remain in history for increasing the inequality of young children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u8	Let us now take a few debatable speeches to this stage, that is to say, all those representatives who want to use a one-minute response on this subject, please stand up and reserve it with a V button. — Let us begin, Mr Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u9	Mr President! It is a pleasure to be in this Chamber to deal with a law that raises the quality of early childhood education and puts the child’s interests at the heart of early childhood education for the first time as a priority when making decisions on early childhood education. As we heard from the previous speaker, we all agree on the big picture. It is important to invest in early childhood education, as early intervention and early childhood education are very effective measures. The committee has also recognised this, as has already been the case with the government's proposal, that early childhood education through this law is not ready either, but will need to be further developed in the future. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media highlights the need for more detailed regulation of the support for early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u10	Mr President! Children's class society is born in front of all of us. It is therefore very untenable that, although the early childhood education law is being updated, the subjective right to quality full-time pedagogical education is limited. Group sizes have not been addressed and the size of the staff remains at a weak level set by the government. Therefore, I am looking at the Minister of Finance, Orpo, who sits there in his seat of representative,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u11	Mr President! This government has set up a so-called active model which obliges the unemployed to take on jobs, which is a good thing, and to seek them actively and also to participate, as it were, in a little bit of active action. We have 45,000 unemployed parents with children of day care age. These two laws — this law on early childhood education, with all the good things in it, and the active model — conflict in the sense that it would now have been reasonable to restore the subjective right to full-time care to every child, because now the children of the unemployed are also in day care as throwing bags and sometimes without care, when their parents are required to participate in the activity activities of the active model. My question is: are you prepared to remedy this either by introducing a subjective day care right, which is full-time, or by introducing an obligation to participate in these activities and to acquire these measures for yourself, by removing the active model from the parents of young children?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u13	Mr President! Finnish early childhood education is also of high quality in the world, highly valued. The new Act on early childhood education contains problematic issues, such as human resources and eligibility criteria. The lack of staff undermines the quality of early childhood education. Group sizes can grow very large during the day, and more hand pairs and arms are needed, especially for the care of children under the age of three. The concerns of socionomists and nannies about their own future were raised in many hearings. The Finns of Peru share this concern. Of course, the best interests of children are number one in the order of priority. Coping with staff and securing flexible further consumption of socionomies and nannies are important in the reform of early childhood education. I should like to ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen: is the concern of kindergarten teachers and nannies with socio-economic background completely in vain?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u14	Mr President! The biggest disappointment with this law is that the government did not find the courage to correct the mistakes that were made at the beginning of the period with regard to early childhood education, especially given that the courage to admit these mistakes has been found, among other things, by the representative of the coalition, Ben Zyskowicz, who admitted that he was wrong about limiting subjective day care rights, and by Sari Multala, who has admitted that raising group sizes was a disgrace during this reign. If the objective is to increase participation rates and improve quality, it would of course have been a priority to correct these errors. In addition, this proposal does not respond well to the concerns that are currently present in the field of early childhood education, such as temporary deviations, but also the privatisation of early childhood education. I would have asked the Minister for his views on this decision taken in Poland, where the municipality decided to outsource the entire early childhood education to a private company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u15	I would like to stress at this early stage the members of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u16	Madam President! This law is excellent for bringing all the provisions under the same law into one early childhood education law, and the child’s best interests are a top priority here as a whole. It is also worth noting that comprehensive growth and development and health in line with the child’s age and development are at the heart of the child’s health, including periods of sensitivity and needs and requirements of different ages are now taken into account at the level of the law. In the case of the smallest, among other things, the importance of care for a sense of security and for building a relationship of affection has also been very important. This early childhood education law brings early childhood education into the educational path, and I am also very pleased that the prevention of bullying is now at the level of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u17	Madam President! It's a day of joy, isn't it? We'll finally be able to reform the early childhood education law. It was a torso when we had Krista Kiuru as Minister of Education. Many times we wished for this day, and now that day is here. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u18	Mr President! There's a huge mega-class draining defect in this government proposal. As we listened to the experts, two things rose above the others: too large groups and this limitation of subjective day care. In addition to these, of course, we are concerned about the ability of the staff to cope. But for those who are, therefore, at the heart of the quality of early childhood education — the size of the group and the child’s right to early childhood education — the government did not touch them at all, and I regard it as a mega-class mistake, so that a little bit of it becomes falsy now that these issues are not addressed when there is a proper possibility. The second point is that this proposal, Minister, has been poorly prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u19	Mr President! Finally, this law can be dealt with here in Parliament. I think there's a lot of good in this law. Pedagogical competence is strengthened, multi-professional cooperation is strengthened, so our educare model is developing and well-being. It is not so good in this proposal that there was no change in group sizes for children over 3 years of age and that the subjective right to day care was not restored. This should have been done in order to talk about quality. However, it is now important to monitor the opportunities of all occupational groups for further education in both Finnish and Swedish. It is also important to secure in the future the right to diverse support in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u20	Mr President! True Finns consider it essential that the welfare and safety of the child continue to be guaranteed in early childhood education. Increasing the level of competence of early childhood education staff is in itself a very positive development, but these qualifications should not be over-emphasised. If this is done, it will lead to increased replacements and changes in carers, which is not in the best interests of the child or, of course, the interests of the staff. The focus will continue to be on practical care and care, especially in groups under the age of three. In the view of the Finns, the staff structure clauses should at least be changed in such a way that in future, the activities of one teacher or socionomist in early childhood education and two carers, as they do today, would be possible in the groups of the smallest children. But with the government's proposal, it is
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u21	Madam President! I would like to thank Minister Grahn-Laasonen for the fact that this period has in fact renewed the learning path of learning and knowledge as a whole, now the early childhood education section, which puts the child's interests at the heart of the planning and implementation of all early childhood education. I also very much welcome the fact that, at the beginning of this year, almost 7,000 families were once again admitted to free early childhood education and that the early childhood education fees of thousands of perfectly normal Finnish families were reduced so much that they decreased by up to EUR 1200 per year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u25	Mr President! ‘It is good that you note what is really important. “ This is what one of the early childhood education professionals said this week, the person whose days go by with our children in the day care centre when I gave my views after the reading of the law in committee. After all, we have heard in that committee how one expert after another has said the same: the bill is necessary, but the significant weakenings made in 2015, which the coalition therefore calls reform, it does not take a position. It is therefore contradictory to provide for new changes and objectives when we have not corrected these main weaknesses in terms of equality and quality. That is why, as the SDP's civil society group, we tabled significant corrections specifically to this equal treatment for all children, i.e. subjective law, reduction of group sizes and early intervention. It is about the quality of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u26	Madam President! I fully agree that there are many joys in the new early childhood education law, and I think that this joy relates precisely to the fact that in the field this reform has been awaited for a very long time, the new tools that support that important work in everyday life. It is very easy to support the raising of educational standards and the development of quality and the best interests of the child, but at the moment the problem is that, now that the new fine law is in place, at the same time, we have these limitations in practice, as has been said here, which also undermine the ability to make use of the implementation of this new fine law in everyday life. And it is also very important for the Minister to remember that this is not just the weapon of the opposition, as it were, but at least as a member of the committee, I feel a great deal of responsibility when we have heard widely from those who represent the interests of the child and experts who praise the law in many ways, but everyone brings up the restriction of this subjective right to day care, group sizes and staffing. Then it is an extremely serious matter, and it requires that we next have a government that does not do this kind of weakening, so that this fine historical law will be fully enforced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u27	Madam President! There is, of course, a lot of good in this legislation and it is particularly good that the best interests of the child are put at the heart of it. But, as many of my fellow Members have reminded us of the opposition, these cuts were made at the beginning of this period, and these growths in groups in particular have been what is probably the most important quality factor in early childhood education, i.e. adequate staff. And on that basis, the criticism of the Christian Democrats about this proposal is based on a number of points, and we fear that these changes may even further exacerbate the shortage of nurses in many growth centres, particularly here in the capital region. Of course, these committee statements have drawn attention to these transitional periods, but I would particularly like to ask the Minister whether the prospects for future work for nannies are such that there will certainly be enough people to come to the sector. They're needed, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u28	Mr President! The fact that early childhood education legislation is at this stage can be described as a gain in employment. It is often said that perfect is the enemy of good. There's something wrong with this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u35	Mr President! Both day - care workers and parents have been critical of these deteriorations. It is clear that quality does not replace quantity. According to employees, their opportunities for individual consideration of children are much lower now that there are fewer staff and more children. They have also reported that anxiety has increased in day - care centres, noise has increased, spaces are cramped and dangerous situations arise. It is also more difficult to tackle this bullying when there are more children, even though it is a really great thing that it was added to this law. Then, on the other hand, parents criticize the fact that the equality between children and families has deteriorated and even the permanence of peer relations between children has deteriorated. Minister, the regulation is not in the hands of Parliament in relation to these group sizes. The regulation is, Minister, in your hands. Would you, however, consider changing the human resources dimension of this regulation and at least abolishing the 1:13 criterion for part-time children, so that the Sipilä government will not be remembered for these increases in inequality among young children?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u36	Madam President! In order to improve the quality of early childhood education, reducing group sizes and restoring subjective care rights are of paramount importance. They would also best address the problem of bullying. Thirdly, I would also ensure that the three-step support is already taken into account in the law and would turn the status recommendation into a binding guideline, as surprisingly many Finnish children spend their days in a smaller space than the recommended seven-square-metre space. I would also like to give our children — that is, our future — better credit. If we raise educational requirements, it alone will cost over 50 million, according to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and wage increases will run further and further away. Even many highly educated kindergarten teachers in my region have not supported this change in education that is now being presented. That is why I would like to work in a day care centre for all kindergarten teachers, nannies and other professional groups. Our day care centres should be competent and caring.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u37	Madam President! Our children are our treasures, and every child should have the right to high-quality early childhood education and subjective day care — I think it is the right of the child. It is a real shame that the government has not corrected this instance, that is to say, that it has removed this restriction of subjective day care rights or reduced group sizes, even though the enormous concern from the field has come to our ears. These savings will cost us dearly in the future. The situation of children in need of special support has already deteriorated in large groups. They cannot be guaranteed the support they need. Mr President! We have to wonder about this government line. Why can you not correct the problems and shortcomings that you have already been aware of when you have every opportunity and power to do so? And what is the government going to do now to correct the mistakes while you still can?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u38	Mr President! Many times in this Chamber I have not agreed with Mrs Heinonen, but now it is worth noting with satisfaction the final part of her speech, which showed that this model of Vantaa for the appreciation of the work of kindergarten teachers has also been positively noted in the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party. We make decisions every day, the decision-makers. This is an important decision, especially bearing in mind that these holiday allowance cuts are still going on. I would have heard the Minister's comment on this model in Vantaa and perhaps a little bit about whether there is a benefit for other municipalities. I'd like to hear the Minister's comment on this. Mr President! The second model in Vantaa is this definition of subjective day care rights. We studied: it was a failed experiment of the year. We studied where early childhood education was most needed — where it hit the most, and we bit it. Minister, now that the leading thinker of the Convention
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u41	Mr President! As has already been said several times here, this proposal lacks specific provisions on specific child support in day care and early childhood education, and I think that at the time of the referral debate the Minister confirmed that this is now starting or starting out as a separate preparatory work. There is a need to clarify access to curator and psychological services and, in particular, the role of the special teacher of early childhood education in this child support. Now that you read the articles of the bill, it seems that a special teacher of early childhood education would only have a role in making plans and evaluating them, whereas I think that this special teacher of early childhood education should be there to raise children and work there within a group of children. This role of special teacher of early childhood education is also not found in the staff of the day care centre, but I believe that,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u42	Mr President! Every study, domestic, foreign, tells us that early childhood education is a key element in seeking the root causes of learning problems and combating them in a human way and cost-effective way at the right time. It is an important future act that early childhood education is made free in some way for all Finnish children regardless of the background, regardless of the family's wealth and so on. I have heard a great deal of criticism about the fact that the government restricted this subjective right, for example, from the children of the unemployed. I have also heard a great deal of criticism about the fact that the size of the group has grown by the decisions of this government. And I would have liked to have seen this three-step support as a future act in this law as a whole. I think it would be a future act now, Minister Grahn-Laasonen,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u43	Madam President! Here on the opposition side, for example, representatives of Nylander and In my opinion, Mr Toivola has made a constructive speech in the sense that, although they have highlighted shortcomings in this law in their view, they have said in a fair and transparent manner that there are very important, good reforms in this law, particularly for children and for early childhood education. Then there have been other speakers. Among other things, representative Touko Aalto seems pleased with that class struggle rhetoric, [May Aalto interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u44	Let us take three more replies to this. For reasons of timetable, the Minister will then respond at this stage. Wave, Andersson, Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u45	Mr President! If the government wants us to rejoice in this good law in many ways, give us reason to rejoice. You have limited, raised, and weakened; you have limited, raised, and weakened. You have limited the subjective right to quality pedagogical early education, increased group sizes and weakened staffing, so that if you want us to rejoice in this good law in many ways, correct these mistakes so that we can all join in this joy. Is the government prepared to acknowledge and correct the mistakes it has made?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u47	Mr President! There is no disagreement within this Chamber about this objective of improving quality. There is no disagreement in my view that it is not worthwhile to increase the level of training of staff. We are all pleased that this section on bullying has been introduced into this legislation. But when we discuss the quality of early childhood education, we should also understand what is the key factor that affects how these fine articles in practical everyday life are implemented, and then this issue of group size is absolutely central because it directly affects the ability of our early childhood education professionals to produce that quality early childhood education. The problem of the size of the group was raised in three ways in connection with the examination of this law. Firstly, there is this change, which was made at the beginning of the period in relation to the ratio of over three-year-olds. This is the problem of how municipalities apply this temporary deviation from the ratio, which is being done far too widely at the moment. And then there is the excessive ratio of these part-time children, i.e. 13 children per breeder. The government won't fix any of these three.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u48	Mr President! I very much welcome the fact that we are already taking the next step when we talk about quality in early childhood education, and this is linked to this support. Of course, this support includes the possibility of using special teachers, psychologists, curators where they are needed in the everyday life of early childhood education, because early childhood education is the only level in our fine system where such support is not systematically found. That is why I look forward to what the Minister will say. The future of nannies has given us a great deal of thought in committee, because the nannies are the professional group that will certainly face the greatest challenges in the future. It is therefore extremely important to monitor what happens to nannies in municipalities and how they can:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u49	Let us take Mr Viitanen and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u50	Mr President! Although there is a lot of good in this law, it is a pity that the mega-class mistake left behind is that group sizes, for example, are not reduced. President! There has been praise for the actions of this government, but I regret to say that throughout the course of education, including our children, this government has operated. The first job was to operate on day care from the children. That is simply not right. I have visited a lot of day care centres, and I can see the daily pressure there when there are too few staff and the groups of children are too large. This is a serious matter. Our lovely children deserve a safe, good, nice day in kindergarten and early education. All in all, Mr President, it is also necessary to raise the hat for day care staff who are doing valuable work. I admire the model of Vantaa. It's great. As far as the Tampere model is concerned, it is important that we did not introduce these cuts in group sizes and that we did not restrict the right of children to day care, despite the fact that the government gave the municipalities this opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u51	Now all the models have been mentioned. — The Minister shall reply, with a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u52	Mr President! Finnish early childhood education is a matter of pride. It is of very high quality and also internationally appreciated. It is important that as parents, mothers and fathers can be confident that the child will receive excellent quality early childhood education. In this context, this legislation can be said to be historic in many ways. For the first time, the primacy of the best interests of the child is a clear starting point for developing early childhood education also in legislation. Similarly, the core content of this law is related to improving the quality of early childhood education, in particular by raising the level of competence and training of staff. In the long transitional period, we will resolve a debate that has been going on for decades, which would have been resolved in fact during the previous term of government when this bill was adopted, but then, under the leadership of the Social Democratic Minister for Education, this will was not there. What I would like to know more about this question of raising the level of education and training is what the Greens and the SDP are actually saying about this change in the staff structure and the increase in the level of education, because there are very contradictory speeches in the Chamber, so that some are worthy, some are opposed, and there was an objection, even if it is said that a good change is being made. Perhaps a little bit of that sort of insight into the field, which is exactly the position on this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u55	Let us take a few more debatable remarks and I would like to stress those who have not yet received the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u56	Madam President! In this law on early childhood education that we are doing, it is a good thing that in future the municipality should ensure that, if the guardians so desire, the child can receive early childhood education in his or her mother tongue in Finnish, Swedish or Sami. This wording has now been clarified to cover more precisely the different languages of the Sámi. In practice, Minister, we must continue to monitor this point of law carefully, because there is considerable room for improvement in the current situation. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, on the other hand, has called for the provision of a unit-specific obligation for early childhood education to promote equality and to draw up an equality plan in exactly the same way as is done in educational institutions. Unfortunately, this is not coming into the law, and now that the Minister is here, I would like to hear why. The positive thing is that the school path is strengthened and the child and family can be supported in different challenges when the level of training of the staff is raised. My own concern, however, has to do with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u57	Madam President! High-quality early childhood education, good day care services, is of fundamental importance in how we can strengthen Finland as a prosperous and competent nation. It is essential that equality of opportunity is increased so that children from different backgrounds can build a life of their own. As many of my fellow Members have said very well, the fact that problems are already being tackled at the very time when they are children is absolutely essential in preventing exclusion. But, in fact, while the Minister of Education is still here and is spending time with us parliamentarians, I would like to ask about the situation with regard to this government proposal and the report from the Committee on Education and Culture, with regard to these socionomies, who work in early childhood education and are indeed professionals in their field, not just kindergarten teachers. Is their chance to work now secure? Is it now that they are not second-class workers at the workplace? We MPs have received quite a lot of mail,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u58	Mr President! This law will indeed improve the position of the child, and I am particularly pleased that the child is now properly protected from violence, bullying and any form of harassment. But I also have a few questions about this guarantee of sufficient and diverse staff. We in the capital region are in constant need of kindergarten teachers, especially qualified ones. After all, this new law now states that two thirds of the staff will then be highly educated, i.e. either kindergarten teachers or early childhood education socionomists. As the previous speaker said, there has been quite a lot of feedback about this status of socionomists and, in particular, about whether they will now end, in a sense, the path to obtaining the qualifications of the head of the day care centre, i.e. whether they will be able to do this in the future. On the other hand, also with regard to this availability: what will be the role of music and art pedagogues, sports instructors and, for example, speech and action therapists here?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u59	Mr President! It is good to say that the right and responsibility for the education of children lie primarily with parents, which is often forgotten here. When the child goes to day care, the parents and their carers must work together to make this plan and make all the rules clear that then, during the journey, there will be no trouble. It is also important that children are there for safe care, have confidence in nurses and have a sense of community. Although I am a representative of the Government Party, I am not happy that staff requirements are being tightened when the Government Programme also includes a reduction in eligibility requirements. So today the socionomists have gone to polytechnics and obtained qualifications and so have the university of applied sciences, but now, according to this law, socionomists are second-class citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u60	Madam President! Early childhood education provides a basis for learning and schooling, and it is necessary to invest in them explicitly. This presentation contains good elements: raising skills or eliminating bullying. But it is also bad: I think, for example, that this is where many of the speakers have referred to it, that it was a mistake to put the staff groups against each other in this proposal, which has indeed produced quite a lot of the mail. All employees in day-care centres are important regardless of their education, and everyone has a role to play. They take care of and grow them each one of us in the day-to-day. Group sizes have been increased and the right of children to early childhood education has been weakened in this subjective early childhood education, and I would have liked this to have been restored. This is where inequalities have grown between different municipalities, with other municipalities introducing these tightening ups and others not, and this is a bad development overall.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u61	Madam President! It has now been seen nationally that in Finland children are in unequal positions depending on the municipality in which they live and whether their parents work. Children of the unemployed are restricted to full-time care. There are many situations where children come and go in the middle of playing games, and this, if that makes you prone to bullying, and the group sizes have grown. Of course, it is important that the law has zero tolerance for bullying, but practical everyday life must also have good quality and a framework for good work. And the children's right to day care should have been restored. That is clearly also in that protest from the Greens. The increase in the level of education is to be welcomed in itself, but I wonder, in terms of group sizes and availability of labour, how well-functioning everyday life is that strict definition of a university degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u62	Mr President! The new law on early childhood education is an important step towards more child-oriented early childhood education. This is a law that clearly leaves in the best interests of the child, and that is why it is of great importance. I agree with what has happened here in other speeches about the prevention of bullying, that it is really a great thing that it has now been brought to the legal level. And then what is particularly important for a child who needs a lot of support — often on both the social and health side and on the teaching side or on the other side — is that there is an obligation to cooperate with the law, multi-professional cooperation, which clearly provides a better starting point in the future, precisely in the interests of the child, in order to secure an entire path of care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u63	Madam President! It is good that the Ministry of Education and Culture is responsible for the role of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. This is a good development and is a good line for the early life of the child from the very beginning when you go to college or vocational school wherever you go. But the big thing in this debate is, in my opinion, a little bit of attention, and that is the finances of the municipalities. During this parliamentary term, the finances of the municipalities have been greatly strengthened. During the last parliamentary term, there were crisis municipalities — I can’t even remember how many of them there were — but now I think there are only a few of them. In any case, everything comes from the finances of the municipalities. The municipalities organise this teaching activity 100%, and it emerges from there,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u66	There are still some requests to speak. We are now slowly starting to finish this debate, because at times we go to that list of speakers, but let us now take Mr Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u67	Mr President! I would have expected this law to have defined group sizes as smaller than those currently in group sizes. In addition, special attention is missing: diabetics, ADHDs, ADDs. When I was working in a kindergarten, there was always one extra person when there were special children in the group. Returning subjective day care: Subjective day care should include all children, especially children of the poor and the unemployed. In many families, the situation is that day care is the only place where a child gets his/her warm food all day long, and that is a very big thing. And that is also a good thing for social development. Then about this education: I would like to see something that takes account of the fact that social educators are the very people who look at the situation comprehensively and see it behind the family situation and the family situation, because that too must be taken into account in early childhood education in terms of the welfare of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u68	Let us take three more comments and then at least go on the list of speakers for a while. These three people are Ala-Nissilä, Multala and Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, this law goes on in early childhood education again and has become new elements, such as interference with child bullying by law. However, the President-in-Office, I am a little annoyed and I always get pimples in these debates when there is opposition to taking account of economic realities by appealing to children. After all, we had a debt of EUR 7 billion a year in the last parliamentary term, now EUR 5 billion when the parliamentary term began. When we divide it by the number of children born each year, which is only about 50,000, it means that we, the child, the child who is born, will place it in the maternity kit for an additional 100 thousand euros per year for the additional debt. We cannot do that in Finland for children, but these economic realities must also be taken into account in the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u72	To that last list, I'll add Mr. Elomaa. Then the opposition parties have also received the same relative number of speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u73	Mr President! As may be the case with the debate, there is a very broad consensus on the basic line of amendments to this law. However, it must now be said that experts we have heard in committee have also said that, when the level of pedagogy is raised so that in the future two out of three early-schoolers will be educated in higher education, so will the success of early childhood education in those larger groups. And this has also been shown by studies that the higher pedagogical skills, the better the objectives of early childhood education will be realised, and therefore the objectives of this law to raise pedagogical skills and the skills of educators are highly desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u74	Madam President! It is actually easy to continue with what has just been said and what has been said here. We have said together here, and also the media, that poverty is inherited. It is terribly important that every child should be given the opportunity to start learning, to have a subjective right to the early childhood education that will help to start the school path.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u77	Mr President! The child must be protected against bullying, violence and other forms of harassment. This bullying has come up in many areas. Unfortunately, it exists in upper secondary schools, vocational schools, especially in primary schools and also in day-care centres. It is a very good thing that this issue is now being brought to the legal level and addressed. But in this context I would also like to point out that the prevention of bullying must be taken into account in the initial and further training of those working in early childhood education. Similarly, the True Finns feel that zero tolerance for bullying must be achieved quickly in the school world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u78	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u79	Madam President! ‘It is good that you note what is really important. “ Indeed, this is what the early childhood education professional said this week, when I told in the yard of the kindergarten what my view of the bill was after its committee reading. So I repeat: ‘It is good that you note what is really important’. There are three things in early childhood education that are really important and beyond others. First of all, just like the representative. Myllykoski there just a moment ago said, indeed, that equality and equality between children, a uniform subjective early childhood education right for all children throughout Finland is a mega-class issue that needs to be discussed at this point. In my speech, I will return to this distinction between the so-called 20-hours, which has been a terrible mistake. We'll be right there. Another important issue is, of course, the quality of early childhood education. Quality is built on issues such as group sizes, the number of adults, special support, i.e. tackling early problems and staff skills and training. And, of course, it is important that as many children as possible take part in early childhood education. As Mr Eloranta has already said here, our situation here, compared with Europeans, is rather weak. Mr President! Finnish early childhood education has been at the top of the world. We have even been a radical pioneer in how we view children, their abilities, phenomenal learning. Our model combines education and care — the so-called educare model, where every situation is a learning situation — has been found to work. A few years ago, we were the world’s number one in the comparison of fifty countries, where the so - called Starting Well index was created. I myself have been involved in international projects where Finnish early childhood education and its values have been sought in other countries. Our model has been convincing and also interesting, and it assures because it is based on research. Well, this world's best early childhood education is being reformed by the modern government. First, equality was scrapped when children were divided into two castes, while others were divided into so-called 20-hours based on the fact that parents are unemployed or otherwise at home. This is the limitation of the subjective right to early childhood education, which, fortunately, here in Helsinki, for example, we did not introduce in the first place. Quality has also been reduced by increasing group sizes and reducing the number of adults in groups. So I say it in plain language: this three-year reform work has weakened the equality of children and the quality of early childhood education. And now we have this law. It will not correct these fundamental issues. It does not correct the subjective right for all children, it does not correct group sizes, nor does it bring the special support and additional knowledge needed for early childhood education into early intervention. Mr President! It has been a shame to listen to experts one after the other in the course of the deliberations of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, who have specifically complained about this very absence of mega-class issues, while, of course, they have thanked many of the details on which we have known that our legislation lacked them. We therefore need an overall reform of early childhood education, a reform of the future based on the real best interests of the child and the equal status of all children, the quality of early childhood education and the participation of all children. Mr President! The development of early childhood education is one of the most important priorities of the SDP. High-quality early childhood education available to all children provides a good basis for moving forward in life, and for families early childhood education is support and security in reconciling work and other life. I will go over the core points of the SDP's early childhood education approach, which have also guided our work in committee. The long-term objective is to make early childhood education free of charge. This would significantly increase the participation rate of early childhood education. The SDP also wants to restore the subjective right to full-time early education for all children, i.e. children who are unemployed and those who are on family leave as well as those who are at home. So it is a child’s right, not a need for a family life. The SDP wants to reform the group size regulation between child groups and early childhood education professionals. The goal is to have groups that allow each child to take into account their needs. In the opinion of the SDP, special support such as three-step support should be extended to early childhood education, which we have in primary school but not here in the earliest situations, even though everyone swears in the name of early intervention. It's not enough to bring it back later. That's the point at this point. In addition, the strength of the Finnish model of early childhood education — this idea that education, education and care will be combined in the educare model — should be taken further into consideration when preparing carefully the level of training, competence and pedagogical capacity of personnel, taking into account all staff groups. And finally, of course, the SDP supports the principle of local day care as part of the local school path. To an appropriate extent, it should be extended to this early childhood education. Mr President! On this basis, as a group of the SDP's Committee on Education, we proposed significant improvements and we also took a legislative initiative to restore subjective rights to the legal level. In addition to subjective, key improvements are the issue of group size and early intervention. We also introduced a number of other changes in quality and staff training and qualifications, as Mr Eloranta has already gone through. These are the points we will vote on later. The Government’s priorities therefore leave unresolved the main shortcomings in early childhood education, the limitation of subjective early childhood education rights and the rational dimensioning of group sizes to the 2015 level and, in the future, to be smaller than larger. In addition, this proposal does not bring any path towards free early childhood education. Mr President! The detail that I would like to highlight, to which Mr Gustafsson referred here, relates to the preparation of the law. The government's proposal was brought here in the form of a parliament which, in a miserable and unnecessary way, has created tensions among the staff. We all know that from the messages we received. Can such a transfer of problems and conflicts to Parliament be regarded as a good preparation — yet, in the area of an area whose daily task is to create a safe and positive atmosphere for children? Well, luckily, the breeders are smart. I am counting on their ability to build good working communities in the future, where we are, so to speak, on the sunny side of the world. In other words, as the early childhood education professional I was quoting said at the outset, we will see what is really important. The same wisdom I hope for this hall as we deal with this law here to the end. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u80	Mr President! In the opinion of the Social Democrats, this bill should not only have been developed but also remedyed the significant weakening of early childhood education during this parliamentary term. The main problems in early childhood education are the insufficient number of staff throughout the operating period, too large group sizes, varying quality and limitation of subjective day care rights and the ability of staff to cope. Moreover, the value of the work and — it must also be clearly stated — the remuneration do not correspond to the relevance and complexity of the task. On these points, the bill does not improve. The criticisms raised in the draft opinion have not been taken into account in the draft law, and these big mega-group issues — even though they were heavily lacking in experts in the Committee on Education — did not have the will, the will of the government parties to intervene. The bill emphasizes the priority of the child’s interests — of course. Limiting the right to subjective day care and increasing group sizes over the age of three However, the Sipilä government is flagrantly warring against this principle — that is, the primacy of the child’s interests. And in the law now under consideration these weakenings should be overturned. We Social Democrats voted in committee and we will vote in the big House in order to reverse these weakenings. The limitation of this subjective right to day care has led to differences in municipal solutions and to the fact that not all children have equal rights to quality early childhood education. Mr President! On 1 August 2014, a new uniform law on student and student care entered into force in Finland, which guarantees psychological and curator services for all schools: pre-school education, basic education, upper secondary schools and vocational institutions. It is essential that the same right to psychological services also applies to early childhood education. It is important for children in early childhood education, for their families and for professionals who work hard in early childhood education. Here, too, we have a clear proposal to amend the paragraph. We were able to listen to excellent experts on this issue in the Committee on Education and Rural Development and could have thought that the committee could have unanimously approved and made these changes. I also see that psychologists, as part of the everyday life of early childhood education, also support the competence and ability of all personnel and thus contribute to ensuring the quality of day care. Mr President! As regards the structure and eligibility of staff: it is one weak link in this government’s proposal, a weak point, a serious run-off to which the committee unanimously stated with an exceptionally strong text: ‘The committee notes that the discussion on the structure of staff has contributed to the unsatisfactory formulation of the detailed arguments put forward by the government’s proposal. “ So it is a failure to formulate detailed arguments. This was such a strong formulation that, by the way, Mr Puumala, the chairman of the Committee on Education, who has now left for a while, rounded this point up in his own presentation, saying “a bit of unsuccessful design ” — Well, it happens. One of the cornerstones of Finnish early childhood education is the diversity of personnel. This should continue to be maintained. Social Democrats believe that early childhood education is the best way to achieve multi-professionalism by working in a day-care centre with both graduates of education, socio-nomics and nannies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u83	Mr President! It must be said at the outset that it is up to Parliament to legislate and the Committee on Culture has done exactly the work which belongs to the Committee on Culture and Education and has clarified the interpretation of the detailed arguments put forward by the Government. This is precisely what we need to do: to highlight the need for clarification and, possibly, the need for further action in the legislative proposals. This cannot be called a bad drafting of the law, but a perfectly normal process. Mr President! Here in Parliament in the plenary hall, Wäinö Aaltonen's work on the future is seen towards us. It reminds us every day that we work daily for future generations. Today we have a real future law here at our hearing. For the first time, the new Act on early childhood education sets out the child’s best interests primarily to be taken into account when planning, organising, producing and deciding on early childhood education. The law guarantees the right of each child to pedagogically high-quality early childhood education. The primacy of the child’s interests is the most important reform of the law. Prevention of bullying is also recorded in the law for the first time. According to the law, the child is to be protected from violence, bullying and other harassment. A safe childhood belongs to every child, and this is now raised to the level of the law. The new Act on early childhood education now fully implements the transfer of early childhood education from social legislation to education, and this will also make early childhood education more visible as part of the school path. The importance of early years for the development of the child will be better recognised, and the objectives of the new law on early childhood education will support the child’s overall growth and development. Mr President! In the future, two thirds of all early childhood education staff will be highly educated, either candidates in education or socio-nomics in early childhood education. According to studies, increasing the level of training and competence of staff improves the quality of early childhood education. At the same time, the share of workers with pedagogical training will also increase. Early childhood education professionals do a very important job every day. Even my own children receive daily care, education and instruction in a safe environment. For this, the greatest thanks are due to dedicated professionals. The new early childhood education law strengthens the multi-professional working community, in which the representative of each occupational group has its own important role to play. It is now proposed to clarify the titles of the various professional groups at the legal level. The precise content of the tasks is not provided for in detail at the level of the law or the explanatory memorandum, as they are operational activities and are the tasks of employers. The eligibility criteria are being revised, but with regard to the false statement made in public, I would like to say that no one who is currently qualified for kindergarten teachers' duties will lose it as a result of this amendment to the law. This applies not only to those in work, but also to those who have started their studies. In practice, this means that during the transition period and after that, some of the teachers in early childhood education have been trained in polytechnics and part of universities. With regard to the changes to the staff structure of the Act, the transition period is long and will fully enter into force in 2030. This will enable municipalities to prepare for changes in the staff structure, and it will also be possible to increase the level of training required at national level. Mr President! During the committee's deliberations, the expert hearings expressed concern that a deviation from the size of the day-care centre would prevent the implementation of high-quality and safe early childhood education. Practices with regard to the exception rule are currently variable and even law-breaking. The Committee on Education agreed with the assessment that the lack of replacements in early childhood education jeopardises the achievement of high-quality and safe early childhood education. The committee's draft statement therefore requires that the effectiveness and effectiveness of the provision on deviations from the size of the day-care centre be monitored and evaluated in the future and that adequate legislative measures be taken, where appropriate, to ensure the best interests of the child. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has identified the problem and made a strong statement on this. In early childhood education, resources must be provided to ensure that the temporary deviation in the human dimension is in genuinely unpredictable and temporary situations. Everyone, therefore, every child, must have the right to a safe early childhood education environment, and early childhood education staff must have the right to do their job so that the objectives of early childhood education can be achieved. Mr President! Although we are now making significant strides in the organisation of early childhood education, work remains to be done. The Ministry of Education and Culture will set up a development platform to consider flexible training pathways for staff in order to meet the new eligibility criteria. No one wants educational dead ends. The Education Committee also calls for the early launch of the early childhood education forum, so that flexible educational pathways can be realised and, with reasonable studies, sufficient qualifications can be achieved. The Government has stated in its proposal that the definition of support for early childhood education and, among other things, the status of hospital early childhood education are defined as further work. The Education Committee notes that this is the most important need for the development of the law in the future. Perhaps, contrary to what has been suggested here, experts have expressed a rather mixed opinion on how this support should be organised. It is therefore good that this too is being carefully prepared. The implementation of the reform must be closely monitored. We need to ensure that we can increase the training rates for kindergarten teachers so that, after a long transition period, the reform of the staff structure can be implemented from the beginning of 2030. When we look at the early years, we are on the right track to prevent exclusion. Early childhood education equals differences due to family background and increases equality of opportunity. Early education has a positive impact on the later school path. Ensure that the Finnish early childhood education system continues to be the world’s top. Our children deserve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u84	Värderade Talman! Igen är ett viktigt, oerhört viktigt, steg taget. Lagen vi diskuterar i dag innebär att det pedagogiska kunnadet inom vår småbarnspedagogik stärks. Det är viktigt, och det är någonting som vi har väntat på ganska länge. Samtidigt stärker man också det mångprofessionella samarbet inom småbarnspedagogicken i och med den ox principiella fördelningen, en tredjedel, en tredjedel och en tredjedel, och jag ser det är som oerhört viktigt. Med tanke på en kvalitativ småbarnspedagogik behövs pool kunskap, alla de yrkesgrupper som jobbar inom småbarnspedogogicken behövs för att skapa en god kvalitet inom småbarnspedogogicken. Därför är jag mycket glad över den bull personalsammansättningen som föreslås i den ruus lagen. Den finländska educare-modellen har vi redan talat om arv tidigare i dag, och jag tycker att den också vinner på det arv lagförslaget. Så arv finns oerhört mycket got som vi ska glädjas över åt med tanke på kvaliteten i småbarnspedagogicen. Men basta talman, inget lagförslag är perfekt, och det som vi har uppfatt sommindre bra i det rai lagförslaget är att regeringen fortfarande tillåter större grupper för barn över tre år samt att man tillåter att den subjektiva rautten till dagvård begränsas. Vi vet att det rai har negativ inverkan på kvaliteten inom småbarnspedagogikiken, så om regeringen skulle ha tagit tillbaka de rajligheterna man har gett kommunerna så tror jag att vi skulle haft ett ännu — ett ännu — battre lagförslag att behandla rai i dag.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u85	Mr President! This government proposal for a new law on early childhood education has been described today as a major step forward by representatives of the government parties in terms of the quality of early childhood education and the best interests of the child. Of course, there are many positive aspects to the proposal, and the objective of raising the level of training of staff is to be welcomed, but it is still an example of the problems and shortcomings of this government's early childhood education policy in many ways. That is why a number of changes have been made to this proposal, both in connection with the committee's deliberations and in the form of opposition protests, and I share the criticisms expressed in previous speeches about this drafting of the law. In my speech, I will focus in particular on two key areas: firstly, why this proposal has not corrected the mistakes that have been made over the last few years in the field of early childhood education and, secondly, how much attention and debate have been given to the guidelines on staff qualification and staff policy. Mr President! As is very often the case in this Chamber, recognition of the facts is the beginning of all wisdom. So is the recognition that a mistake has been made. Investing in the quality of early childhood education and increasing the participation rate of early childhood education are generally recognised and supported objectives. High-quality early childhood education supports children's later learning and increases equality between children. This is also the view of the government, at least if the ministers listen to what they say. However, the strangest thing about government policy is that the government has not been prepared to correct the damage it has done at the beginning of its term. In this respect, the Government's policy on early childhood education is therefore in serious conflict with words and actions. Mr Ben Zyskowicz has admitted that he was wrong when he was in favour of restricting subjective day care rights, and Mr Sari, MP and vice-chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. Multala has called the decision to grow group sizes a disgrace. However, these shortcomings will be left unchanged in the context of this proposal. The subjective day care right will not be restored on an equal footing for all children and group sizes for children over 3 years of age will not be withdrawn. During the committee's hearings, the scrapping of subjective day care rights was criticised in many different directions, from researchers, children's organisations, municipalities and early childhood education personnel organisations. The Left Alliance is committed to restoring subjective day care rights to all children on an equal footing and to presenting them also in the context of the examination of this law as an amendment to the articles. In addition, I am disappointed that the proposal does not respond to the messages and concerns that have been raised in the field of early childhood education, particularly in recent times. They relate, for example, to groups that have grown oversized in part-time early childhood education, temporary deviations and the need for shift care to get a separate dimension. The abolition, or limitation, of subjective day care rights has therefore also meant increasing group sizes, as it has increased the number of children in part-time care. As we know, the proportion of part-time children in early childhood education is significantly lower than in full-time groups. It is a very big problem for children's equality and also for the ability of staff to cope and the quality of early childhood education. In the view of the Left Alliance, the size of personnel must be the same, regardless of how much the child is in early childhood education. There are also problems in many places when there is a derogation from the prescribed ratio, referring to temporary deviations. At municipal level, therefore, the law is interpreted in a way that the legislator has not meant because of the austerity pressures. I welcome the fact that the Committee on Education and Rural Development has clearly raised this issue in a statement which requires monitoring and, if necessary, legislative action. Temporary and short-term group-size overruns shall not be continuous or day-to-day and shall not last for the entire day of operation. The Left Alliance is proposing that this wording be brought directly into the relevant legal clause in order to clarify the situation. There is also concern about the growing shift of early childhood education into the hands of profit-oriented commercial operators. Poland recently outsourced its entire early childhood education to Touhula, a limited company owned by a venture investor. In the field of early childhood education, the private sector was dominated by three strong large companies, and concerns have been raised in particular about the impact of privatisation on the equality of children and staff. For example, private day care agreements may provide that if a child has a need for special support or care, or if a child’s food allergy requires special derogations, the care agreement may be terminated. Such conditions place children in an unequal position and are not in the best interests of the child. In addition, in commercial day-care centres, staff have lower wages and fewer cookers and cleaners, and their duties are easily amassed by kindergarten teachers and nannies, which also directly undermines the quality of early childhood education. It should also be noted that the day care business is heavily subsidized by tax, as private care support can be applied for in payments. The commercialisation of early childhood education therefore has a significant impact on the position of children and staff, so it cannot be just a local issue, but must be regulated nationally. — It is a pity that the Minister, while still there, did not comment on any of this example of Poland. Like the Ombudsman for Children, the Left Alliance suggests that the Act on Early Childhood Education should provide for a ban on profit in private early childhood education. This would therefore be in line with Article 7(2) of the Basic Education Act, which states that education must not be organised for economic gain, and is increasingly topical at a time when early childhood education is specifically intended to be incorporated into this whole Finnish culture path. Mr President! I will then continue with the staff guidelines in the next speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u86	Congressman Nivala, please. I think this is my first speech, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please! The Government’s proposal for a law on early childhood education makes the child’s best interests a priority when planning, organising and deciding on early childhood education. All you can do is rejoice. That is what the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child already obliges us to do: to guarantee children the right to protection and care, to contribute to society's resources, and to participate in decision-making and social life concerning themselves. The key principles of the agreement are the prohibition of discrimination, the best interests of the child, the right of the child to life, survival and development, and the consideration of the child’s views. The aim of early childhood education is laid down in the proposal, as has been the case to date. If the ten-point list only picks up the words, the aim of early childhood education is to promote, support, implement, secure, secure, give, identify, develop and act. These are very positive, forward-looking and clearly aimed at achieving the best interests of the child. I draw my attention to paragraph 6. The aim of early childhood education is to provide all children with equal opportunities for early childhood education, to promote gender equality and to enable them to understand and respect the general cultural heritage and the linguistic, cultural, religious and political background of each of them. So the goal is to give the child the ability to understand and respect. Is that enough? I do not think that the objectives at this point are very high or, more correctly, in-depth. I also believe that the building of a child's cultural, religious and spectral identity requires more active support in early childhood education. The goal of understanding and respecting the second background is not sufficient when a child considers man’s existential basic questions personally. Even a four - year - old asks a difficult question when faced with, for example, the reality of life’s fragility and death in his own immediate circle. I hope that Objective 10 will be an objective which, in my opinion, complements the thin objective of paragraph 6. It states that the aim of early childhood education is ‘to act together with the child and with the parent or other parent as the best means of Here I am also happy to read cultural, religious and spectral education. I am pleased that according to the criteria adopted by the Finnish National Board of Education in the 2016 early childhood education plan, early childhood education also includes spectral education, in which religions and other views in a group of children are the subject of mutual consultation. The aim here, too, is to promote mutual respect and understanding of different views, but also to support the development of the cultural and spectral identity of the child. The guidance given by the Finnish National Board of Education in January 2018 on the implementation of early childhood education and religious opportunities in early childhood education clarified the interpretations and practices of schools and kindergartens, as well as the possibilities and limits of cooperation with parishes, among others. In the grounds of the early childhood education plan, the congregation is cited as an example of regional and local cooperation. There can also be cooperation with other religious communities. In particular, I am delighted by the guidance signed by the President and CEO Olli-Pekka Heinonen: ‘Laste’s amazement will be ordered and the life questions will be considered with them.’
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u88	Mr President! The importance of early childhood education for Finland's future cannot be emphasised enough. This environment, in which a large proportion of children spend a significant part of their childhood years, affects not only the home but also the development of offspring. Children must be guaranteed a safe, healthy, stimulating and learning environment in day care. Staff working in early childhood education will play a key role in this respect. The starting point for the changes to the Early Childhood Education Act must be the welfare of the child, and this must not be compromised by disunity between different groups. Decision-makers must be impartial in the interests of children. One of the key issues in the ECEC Act is human resources and eligibility criteria. At the moment, the lack of staff in many places undermines the quality of early childhood education. How to provide children with the world-famous quality of early childhood education if staff time goes to changing diapers, dressing, and other so-called kindergartens? Recruitment pages are bursting with job advertisements for day-care centres, which means there is a shortage of employees. The situation is unsustainable over a long period of time, and this problem should be resolved as quickly as possible. However, the current legislative reform does not focus on solving the gnawing staff gap in the sector, but is intended to promote the quality of early childhood education through new qualification requirements and group-specific dimensions. The reform may make it difficult to find people with the appropriate qualifications in many day-care centres. How to act in a smaller locality in a situation where there is absolutely no culture of early childhood education in the search for work? Finnish day care is highly valued and the quality of early childhood education is considered good. What is the problem with the new eligibility criteria? This is already working well, and there is no need for a possible hierarchy in day-care centres. And with regard to the competence of socionomists, many experts found that they have the capacity and pedagogical skills to provide super-quality early childhood education for children of kindergarten age. Socionomist is, in principle, qualified for kindergarten teacher’s work. Nursing nurses are also very well educated in Finland. How you cope with children in different situations depends largely on your personality and experience. We Finns also believe that a higher university of applied sciences degree in the field of social services, completed with 60 credits in pedagogical studies, would be adequately trained for the role of head of the day care centre. Mr President! I am deeply concerned about the role of socionomists and nannies as a result of the reform. Despite transition periods, this is likely to have a negative impact on people’s careers and possible further plans and on young people’s career choices. Sosionoms and nannies need to be given good opportunities for further training so that they can continue to work in this field. The number of skills and previous studies must also be fair. I am afraid that the reform will hit its own ankle and the availability of labour for early childhood education providers will become even more difficult. I would also point out that the tightening of the eligibility criteria for early childhood education goes against the government's policy when it has declared that it is generally responsible for reducing the eligibility criteria. The fight against bullying must also be focused on early childhood education. The child must be protected against bullying, violence and other forms of harassment. It's important. Prevention of bullying is taken into account in the law, and this is a very good thing, and I must then say thank you, of course, to the government. Early childhood education providers need to tackle bullying more rigorously than is currently the case. Bullies should also be taken into account in the initial and further training of those working in early childhood education. Mr President! On the long side, however, it is essential that groups in early childhood education do not grow too large. This must be ensured, as must the regional equality of early childhood education services. The level of customer fees must also remain reasonable. True Finns do not fly for free early childhood education as long as the state is looking for savings. The Finns, representatives of the Committee on Education and Culture, Mr Savion and the undersigned, will, among other things, propose amendments to the new law on early childhood education. Finally, Mr President, I would like to underline that everyone who works in early childhood education is doing a very responsible job, a very valuable job. The female-dominated sector of early childhood education is in its entirety. The pay has been weak for years, and neither trade unions nor political parties have been able to improve it, yet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u89	Mr President! I'll pick up where Mr. Elomaa left off. With the entry into force of the new Act on early childhood education, staff eligibility requirements are being tightened considerably. Unfortunately, this draft law entails the risk that municipalities will not be able to employ enough trained staff in the labour-intensive sector in the future. This can lead to more replacements and staff turnover, which can affect children’s well-being and even safety. True Finns attach the utmost importance to ensuring that the best interests of the child are achieved in all circumstances. Mr President! While raising the level of competence is generally a very positive development, the Government, in this proposal for a law on early childhood education, does not, however, follow the main policy of the Government Programme to reduce the regulatory burden on eligibility requirements. At least the standards of competence should not be over-emphasized, as is now threatening to happen. The lack of training places can also become a problem, especially since there is already a shortage of skilled staff in many places of growth. It is also largely due to a very low level of pay in relation to the responsibility of kindergarten teachers and nannies. Mr President! In the event of the performance, for example, the number of nannies working in day-care centres would be reduced by up to 9,000 during the transitional period, according to expert estimates. Part of this would be through retirement, but at least some of the nannies could also be threatened by dismissal if the law came into effect. Given the already relatively high level of education of day care staff, the change in the staff structure of day care centres is not fully appropriate. In the future, the focus will continue to be on practical care, especially in groups under the age of three. The True Finns propose that the staff structure section be corrected so that, for example, the activities of one teacher or socionomist in early childhood education and two nannyes would continue to be possible, especially in groups under the age of three. If implemented, this proposal would significantly mitigate the risks associated with the practical implementation of the reform. Mr President! With the draft law, so-called "educational sealed houses" can become a barrier to career progression, and this is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. According to the views of the Finns, it should also be possible to qualify for the role of teacher of early childhood education for a person who has completed 60 credits in teacher's pedagogical studies. The adequacy of training and continuing training places must also be ensured. In the Government’s proposal, a prerequisite for the post of director in charge of the day care centre is the eligibility for the statutory post of teacher or socionomist in early childhood education and at least a master’s degree in education, as well as sufficient managerial skills. We believe that this qualification requirement should also be reduced from the proposal. For example, a higher university of applied sciences degree and sufficient management skills completed by 60 credits teachers with pedagogical studies should qualify for the post of director in charge of the day care centre. Mr President! Particularly serious attention should be paid to groups in early childhood education, both in terms of children's safety and the ability of staff to cope. According to the Government’s proposal, staff size would be regulated separately for those in early childhood education for a maximum of five hours a day and could therefore be very large for them. The True Finns feel that such a separate regulation of group sizes is not necessary for children in part-time early childhood education, and we therefore propose that this entry be removed from the law. We also tabled an amendment to the effect that there should be no deviation from the personnel allocation in the day-care centre except in the event of a sudden and unforeseen reason during the day of operation. Furthermore, the deviation from the measurement should not continue until the end of the day in question. Mr President! Early childhood education, which falls under the responsibility of municipalities, is differentiated from social welfare and health care services if they are transferred to the responsibility of organising regions, as it seems to be the case now that the social welfare reform is being carried forward a little by force. All of this can make it difficult, for example, to exchange information and other forms of cooperation between service providers in the future, which is hardly in the best interests of the child either. Mr President! The Finns also stress that customer charges must remain reasonable on both the municipal and private sides. However, as Mrs Elomaa said earlier, we are not in favour of public education which has been repeatedly flashed in public debate, free of charge. Mr President! At a detailed reading, we will table five amendments to the text to correct the shortcomings we have identified in the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u90	Mr President! The draft law under discussion is moving towards the goal of continuing education in such a way that early childhood education is part of the education and training system. The aim of the bill is to strengthen the competence of personnel and to increase the quality and effectiveness of early childhood education. The law in force is now more clearly laid down on the forms of early childhood education. The key is that in all early childhood education, related planning, decision-making and organisation, the child’s best interests are paramount. The accessibility of early childhood education services is of great importance in the everyday life of the family. A flexible transition to pre-school education and further basic education must be made possible for the child. The local school path is important for children and families. The organisation of early childhood education is the responsibility of the municipalities, but these services can be supplemented, if necessary — I stress, with early childhood education services provided by private companies. Private early childhood education is carried out within the framework of this same legislation. In early childhood education provided by private service providers, children must receive services as good and comprehensive as municipal early childhood education in order to achieve equality between children. Mr President! Research on the impact of the early years and the level of training and competence of staff on the quality of early childhood education is constantly increasing, and the discussion will certainly continue. In fact, I hope it will continue. In consultation with the committee, it has become clear to me that there are now municipalities in which there are no early childhood education teachers who have at least a bachelor's degree in education. I have also noticed during the process that, for example, it is impossible to obtain information on the level of education of early childhood education staff in different municipalities in different years or decades. It would be interesting to make regional comparisons, for example, and to study the relationship between the training of early childhood education staff and the Pisa results, for example. We know that early childhood education is based on mathematical capabilities, language skills and interaction. It is therefore a good thing that, as outlined in this law, the data reserve on early childhood education, which should also be stored for staff, will be better increased. A prerequisite for achieving the objectives of the early childhood education law and the early childhood education plan is trained and properly measured personnel and good management. The draft law includes necessary changes to the staff structure and qualifications of personnel in connection with early childhood education in the day care centre. An exceptionally long transition period until 2030 will safeguard the rights of current staff and students in the field. The bill strengthens the quality of early childhood education by raising the level of education of staff. High-quality early childhood education can take place when the tasks of the entire staff are defined in such a way that the training and competence of each individual can best support the growth, development and learning of children. By clarifying the division of labour, the aim is to strengthen multi-professional cooperation. The multi-professional staff structure makes it possible to make the best use of the core competences of each team of experts for the benefit of the child. I would stress that every task and every job in early childhood education is important. In the referral debate we have already stated that this proposal lacks specific provisions on the organisation of child support in early childhood education. This government proposal states, and the Minister has just confirmed, that a separate preparatory work will be started on the whole of early childhood education. This is a good thing and it is worth repeating the need for urgent reform of the provisions relating to child support and special support. This reform should clarify the role of psychological and curator services, as well as the participation of a special teacher in early childhood education in child rearing. In addition to the need for child support, support measures and the assessment of their implementation, the special teacher of early childhood education should participate in the upbringing and guidance of the child in need of support in the day-care centre, the day-care group. I would stress that I believe that the staff of the day care centre should include a special teacher of early childhood education in line with the need for early childhood education. In early childhood education provided by private service providers, children must receive services as good and comprehensive as municipal early childhood education, and high quality early childhood education should be provided throughout Finland in order to ensure equality between children. Mr President! Early childhood education is one part of the services of children and families with children. Society must take care of this service and bring the services close to the everyday life of the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u91	Mr President! We all know that the earlier and earlier the problems are addressed, the easier they can be addressed. Early support for a young child in early childhood education is the most impressive and indeed facilitates the child’s later school path. Early support is indeed the best investment and most impressive for under-school-age people. Here in the previous debate someone referred to the economy, the lack of money, but when it is precisely that early support that is invested, money will be saved. Was it now the case that one young person who has been excluded costs up to EUR 1 million? But, indeed, there is no provision in the bill for these matters of support. Of course, it would be important for us to have the same model as in basic education, and although this is obviously to be clarified now, I am surprised that we have had three years in this government to get this thing involved and not here. This would also be important if, as has been said here, when those groups are so large, there is no other way of giving support. That is why it would be good if there were those psychologists there in everyday life to help troublesome situations in a large group of children with a limited number of staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u92	Mr President! Representative Parviainen spoke with an expert, and what else could be expected of the schoolteacher, the teacher, the principal. But now I would venture to ask, since there is not a single member of the Assembly present, whether you could now open up a little of this discussion of government parties in relation to this important early childhood education law. In my opinion, the opposition has actually been determined not to touch subjective justice, and the government has not intervened at all in this whole group case. Both are at the heart of the main objective of this law, the pedagogical quality. Did the Central Party really try to change the position of the Coalition Party here, or who was acting as a brakeman?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u94	Mr President! Representative Parviainen, like many others, rightly pointed out the need to create this model of special support in day care. It is a great thing that we are now going to have separate preparations, although I agree with the speeches and views of those who have been wondering why this has not been done before, when this need for support and the need to create such a model has been recognised for a long time. But I wonder just how difficult it is to raise the debate on this privatisation of early childhood education too, because it is directly linked to this provision of special support and how it is organised at the moment. The committee was also given access to statistics on how care and early childhood education are organised for children with special needs at the moment, and by far the majority of them are currently in municipal early childhood education. In other words, the strong increase in this private service production in the field of early childhood education also affects the equal opportunities for children to receive the support they need.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u95	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u96	Mr President! However, this government proposal, if not perfect, is in many ways to reform the attitude of our decision-makers and society as a whole and therefore to be supported as a whole. Increasing the level of training of staff is also an important objective. This aims to improve support for children and families in the challenges of growth and development and to address problems at an early stage. Thanks also deserve to be given to the possibility of early childhood education in the mother tongue of the child I mentioned earlier here — in Finnish, Swedish and Sámi, and hopefully also in sign language, on the basis of the committee’s statement — and the right to be specified now as part of the responsibilities of the municipality. Implementation in this regard requires monitoring. Mr President! However, it cannot be swept under the carpet, that we are in a situation where resources have been cut from early childhood education and where the most vulnerable children will no longer be equally covered by early childhood education. It's a problem. With the right to full-time early childhood education limited, group sizes have been increased and the size of the staff has been reduced and, at the same time, the aim is to increase the quality of early childhood education by raising the level of education of the workers, there is a clear contradiction between activities and objectives. The research emphasises the importance of high-quality early childhood education as part of healthy and safe growth. High-quality and reasonably sized early childhood education also plays an important role in the aspects of equal opportunities for children and the prevention of bullying and discrimination. Only when the foundation and resources are on a strong basis will each early childhood education professional have a proper opportunity to practice his/her own skills and be part of a safe, nurturing and pedagogical path that takes account of the different age stages of each child. This conflict will remain if the Government's bill is not corrected in this respect. Mr President! What is not being corrected in this way, and what is therefore a demanding issue for its own decision, is the hire of kindergarten teachers and nannies. The monthly salary of a teacher in early childhood education is about EUR 2300 and the child carer approximately EUR 2000. The pay has to be proportionate to the demandingness of the job. The day care centre is the place we parents leave our most expensive on weekdays. The salary of kindergarten teachers and nannies is not proportionate to the responsibility and does not encourage them to remain in early childhood education. We still need to look for solutions to this problem separately and also outside this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u97	Mr President! I have already taken the floor, and I have taken the time to do so. A few important things remain to be said. I am talking here in particular about the status of staff and the eligibility of staff, and I would like to repeat this once again when I quote the unanimous statement of the Committee on Culture and Education: ‘The committee notes that the debate on the structure of staff has contributed to the unsatisfactory formulation of the detailed arguments put forward by the Government’s proposal. “ I mean, a failed design. This is linked to the fact that this law on early childhood education was not done by sufficient scope and cooperation with the so-called field, unlike, for example, the lu-kiolai that was here a few days ago, and this is, in that way, unforgivable because it was quite understandable for the staff of day-care centres to cause great concern, uncertainty and uncertainty. That is why I appreciate the honesty that the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy unanimously wrote in this way — I do not remember, in my long career, that it would have been said in plain language that it was a failed wording. That is why I would now like to emphasise that, in this situation of change, early childhood education needs to be developed in particular together, listening to and involving the various staff groups. Skills of trained professionals, both socionomists and nannies, must be put to the best use to support children's growth and families, not to mention those who have been trained as a kindergarten teacher, on the contrary. It is essential to note that we will need more staff in the sector in the future if the participation rate in early childhood education rises according to the objectives, i.e. it is now around 75% and this is the European level, which will lead to 90-95%. The contribution of all staff groups is therefore needed, and it is a good principle to recognise it. Social Democrats believe that it is important not only for early childhood education but also for early childhood education to have social and social skills, because early childhood education is not just about working with children, but also about the whole family and its needs. We therefore emphasise this educare model, where education, education and care form such a functional whole. Then, in the course of the legislative procedure and before that, Mr President, this position as the head of the day care centre attracted a great deal of attention. So, for those with a socio-nomic background who are now qualified, it will remain so, but this bill was based on the fact that, after this amendment, they have to complete a master's degree in education in addition to a socio-economic degree and after that — an incomprehensible presentation and conclusion — and that is why we have now made a simple amendment to the article that everyone who is qualified to carry out the duties of teacher or socio-economics in early childhood education should also be able to carry out the duties of director of the day care centre by means of additional training. In this context, the expert consultation has now led to further pedagogical studies of this kind, which are 60 credits, which is in a way both realistic, rational and feasible. Finally, Mr President, on this matter of safeguarding the employment of nannies. It is important in the long term, I am sure — now depends a little on what is happening in this so-called social reform. Significant attention should be paid to the role of nannies, and this possibility of further education and training should then be secured for them as well. Above all, this government proposal does not analyse the possibilities for the development of vocational education and training. Staff pedagogical skills should also be developed by updating the contents of vocational qualifications and by continuing training of personnel. The newly reformed Master's degree in education and guidance is an example of a pedagogically ambitious degree that takes into account the skills requirements required by previous legislative changes. It is noteworthy that this bill did not sufficiently recognise the professional competence of nannies and socionomies. Childminders and socionomies who have chosen the vocational training path and are committed to their work are also professionals in pedagogy and care. Although the tasks of early childhood education staff are guided by their background training and special skills, in practice the tasks of early childhood education are not rigidly differentiated. In the everyday life of day care and pedagogy go hand in hand. The value of care and the importance of care-related competence should be taken into account in the legislative reform of the vocational competence of early childhood education staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u98	Mr President! I will continue on the same subject because I too ran out of time in the previous speech before I got to this staff policy and that part of this proposal. As has been heard here in many speeches, this bill has caused both nannyes and kindergarten teachers of socio-nomic origin to be concerned about their position in the future, and although this objective of raising the level of education is something that I share and sign, it must be said that there are quite a few points in this government bill that could have been corrected. This would also have led to a much better response to the concerns of the representatives of the various staff groups than has been done now, and it is of course extremely regrettable that this contradiction in the government's proposal between the arguments and the paragraphs also led to confusion about the qualifications of people during and after this period of change. In my opinion, the main problems are as follows: In particular, the government has not responded to the perfectly legitimate concerns of nannies about the future of their own working lives and what will happen to nannies after this transition period has passed. It would also have been possible to respond much more effectively to the socio-economic concerns about their role in this threefold new staff structure. For example, this proposal does not include the actual quota for early childhood education at all, but only in the case of early childhood education teachers, this has been clearly opened up in the law. And the third obvious flaw is this strict qualification limit that has now been made for the qualification of the head of the kindergarten and which, in my opinion, in vain creates this kind of professional closed-end in relation to these socio-nomic kindergarten teachers and future early education socionomists. In its own early childhood education guidelines, the Left Alliance has proposed a 1+1+1 model of personnel structure, which means that we support the objective of raising the level of training of staff and increasing the proportion of university-educated kindergarten teachers in particular. For us, however, this means a model in which one-third of those working in a day care centre would have a degree in education, one-third a degree in socio-nomics and one-third a suitable degree in social and health care or education, such as a local nurse or a child counselor. This staff structure, based on three different qualifications, is clearly proposed to be opened up by law in the form of a draft article. Our approach to the staff structure and the multi-professional team is therefore based on the need to make better use of the characteristics and the best aspects of both socionomist and kandi training, without forgetting the important contribution made by nannies. Our aim is not to build hierarchies or confrontations, but to highlight each one's competence and the important characteristics of various education, while emphasising the pedagogy of early childhood education more strongly and raising the level of education. The particular problem with this government proposal for the staff structure of early childhood education is, as I mentioned, that it does not adequately assess the impact of the change in the staff structure on the employment of carers. The number of carers in the bill is estimated to decrease by 9000, but a more detailed analysis of the effects of the reduction is missing. Retirement alone will not solve the employment issues of nannies, especially if the social and regional reform takes place, and there has therefore been particular concern about the fact that, during this transitional period, local authorities will continue to have to recruit nannies due to the fact that the increase in education and, as it were, the response to this new staff structure will take place rather slowly, and there will then be a risk that nannies will become unemployed after this transitional period. If the social and regional reform takes place, it means that these possibly unemployed nannies will no longer be assigned work equivalent to a substitute educational background within the municipal organisation, but will then be transferred to another organisation. We therefore see the importance of tailoring our own security for nannies, for example, in order to facilitate further training, because otherwise this bill may indeed lead to redundancies and unemployment for nannies. We will come up with a statement on this at the second reading of the law, but I would have liked to see a clear exit from the direction of the ministry from a sort of tailor-made solution for nannies in order to dispel these concerns. In the draft Act, the qualification of the director of the day care centre in charge of the activities is valid for the post of teacher or socionomist in early childhood education, as well as at least a master's degree in education and sufficient managerial skills. The motion does not explain why a higher university of applied sciences degree is excluded from the qualification of the head of a day-care centre, although the degree provides the capacity to be a director, and through this round of expert opinions which has now been organised in connection with the examination of this bill, I have not heard any convincing arguments as to why it is necessary to limit this qualification to such a strict level that it does indeed require the completion of a master's degree in separate educational sciences. There is also insufficient information on how this can be done in different universities. In some universities, it is possible to start studies with a master's degree directly, but not all of them, i.e. some universities require that the full degree of a kandi plus master's degree be completed, which in turn requires very many additional years of study.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u101	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson and Mr Andersson have raised the question of the eligibility of staff, and I must say that we have received a lot of mail about it, and it is good that the committee had quite honestly written in the explanatory statement that this was a little badly informed. In fact, the amount of mail was reduced when people knew that this is not so big a question, namely that the previously acquired qualifications will remain in the law change and that all current kindergarten teachers, who can therefore be educational scientists or socio-nomics, will be qualified for early childhood education. But, of course, there must be different learning paths in the future, so that those who want to have access to the tasks they want to do will be able to do so. Representative Gustafsson also raised the subjective day care right, which is of course not the subject of this legislation, but I would like to say that every Finnish child is entitled to 20 hours subjective day care, but those children who have parents and siblings at home are now more entitled to their own parents. Of course, on social grounds, full-time care is also available. It was a good thing that the committee had made an effort on the question of human resources. This legislative project is particularly good in that the best interests of the child have been put at the centre and the child is protected against violence, bullying and harassment. I think it is very good that data protection standards are updated in such a way that information is passed. I'm sure we've all been contacted about how this passing of knowledge is clumsy. A very good thing is that, as a whole, we think that by raising the level of competence we can increase the skills of future children then in their own lives and working life. It is an advantage for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u102	Mr President! I find it strange that representatives of the government parties are trying to create the impression that nothing has happened to the subjective day care court, that all children have the same right to subjective day care, because the fact is that children are no longer equal in terms of the right to day care, after the weakening of this government, i.e. the extent of the right to day care, early education, now depends on the labour market status of parents. If, then, you want this greater right, you have to make a specific argument as to why you need it. I would also like to say to Mr Kalmar that these ambiguities, which were linked to qualifications and therefore due to poor preparation, have been clarified quite quickly, but here are a number of other issues that remained in this bill, such as the eligibility of the head of the day-care centre and the employment situation of the nannies, which did not come up with any solution in connection with this law, which still raises concerns and critical comments in the staff groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u103	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u104	Mr President! The early childhood education law brings together, as has already been said here, regulations. The law is based on the interests of children and seeks to improve the quality of early childhood education. One of the most important tools for improving quality is the proposal to increase the level of training of staff to at least a university-level bachelor's degree. This decision, albeit with a transitional period of ten years, has been accepted in day-care centres with dismay. I've been getting a lot of feedback about it. It has affected the working climate, and I must be honest with you. However, in paragraphs 6 and 7, the committee's report requires the Government to ensure that, during and after the change, early childhood education staff are able to progress in their careers through comprehensive and time-efficient continuing and continuing training. The most important thing now is that those who want this degree to be raised for their part must also have the opportunity in practice and not depend on the places of education. I would remind you that a similar increase in the level of qualifications was made in social services, and now we know what has happened. Child welfare has had to resort to incompetent replacements, and I fear that at this point, if education is not adequately taken care of, we will be dealing with a similar mistake. We have a desperate shortage of qualified social services today. The availability of staff is naturally affected by the level of remuneration. Surely, in this Chamber, we all agree that work is very demanding in early childhood education and should also be reflected in the level of pay. Representative Eija Nivala, in her own excellent virgin speech, discussed the instruction of the National Board of Education on the functioning of day care centres. However, there have now been problems with the interpretation of these guidelines. Of course, congregations cooperate with day - care centers that are part of the congregation and whose parents have given permission to do so. Man’s spiritual growth is a very important thing and part of the upbringing of each child. Therefore, this lack of interpretation, which has now emerged in practice, should be removed by clarifying that the situation would not therefore be a problem. I tried to get a reply, but when I did not, I will now answer the points made by Mrs Eloranna. In Finland, less than 70 per cent of people over the age of four participate in early childhood education," said Eloranta, representative. It's true. At the same time, Mr Eloranta compared the situation with Sweden, more than 90% in Sweden. However, it must now be remembered that there is a very big difference between Sweden and Finland in reconciling family and working life. It is much more flexible in Sweden and it is also more flexible to work part-time, which means that they are not comparable. We must also carry out a family leave reform, after which we could be on the same track. In this context, I would like to highlight what the Parliamentary Audit Committee dealt with very thoroughly during the last parliamentary term, and that is where the problems of exclusion are leading and which are the result. Unfortunately, in the case of children, custody is on the increase. Today, at least from my own place, I know that. In future, day care centres should also be able to recognise at an early stage whether there are problems at home for the child and thus prevent these possible cases of custody. Here we have quite a big column to crash, and the most important observation for children is, of course, able to make early education staff not only of their own parents but also of course of their own. This should now create such a functioning system, and that is why I am a little afraid now that, through the social welfare reform, certain things are falling apart, whether we are getting the coordination we need, that this system works, that when the situation of early intervention and the need for early education is discovered there, there will also be those housekeepers and the like who will be able to solve the situation in that family. In such cases, expensive institutional investments of €140,000 per year can be prevented.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u106	And the reply, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u107	Thank you, Speaker! In particular, I would like to thank Mrs Anttila for finally talking about the increase in the number of children taken into care and, above all, about how it should be dealt with in early childhood education, pre-school education, even in the context of inspections of maternity clinics, for much more interference and interference, so I cannot fail to note that, in this context, when experts were listened to in committee, including the representative of the Psychologists' Union, we are now proposing an amendment to the article. We have this type of service in primary school, and how important the findings and services of such a psychologist could be in early childhood education — so, to put it more freely, I would believe that a good psychologist would get his salary back many times as much as we know how much custody costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u108	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson intervened in an important matter, and that is precisely what I meant in my own speech: since the maternity clinic activities come to the social welfare side — that is, when this chain is fragmented — we must now be able to ensure that this system actually works from that maternity clinic, early education, school and then those messages come in time. And, of course, a psychologist could be fine, but we all have to walk with our eyes and ears open when we see situations and intervene in them. In today's society, we are far too indifferent to each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u109	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u110	Mr President! Of course, we have been talking about this for quite a long time, but a few more comments: So this is Rule 36. I myself have supported this addition, which has been made and which states: ‘The temporary and short-term group sizes are overshooting and not daily. It shall also not last for the entire day of operation.’ And this is Rule 36. defines the deviations from the size of the day-care centre. And in my opinion, if we are talking about quality and the ability of the staff and the comfort of the whole group and children, this is an extremely important amendment to the section, and I have strongly supported this in committee. With regard to these socionomies in early childhood education, I agree that a more accurate description of the work should have been in this government proposal, because it would certainly have dispelled at least some of these fears relating to this draft law. Then I agree with Mr Gustafsson that in this continuing training we must strike a balance. Of course, quality and content are very important, but it must also be reasonable, taking into account previous knowledge and experience. And I think that this should be followed very closely by the fact that this does not lead to inappropriate training paths, for example in the case of socionomists, as Mr Gustafsson mentioned here. It serves no one, nor does it serve quality in early childhood education. Then I would just like to support what Mrs Anttila said about family leave reforms. He has left now, but what is absolutely essential is that we talk about the welfare of families, that we should be able to carry out family leave reform. As far as these different forms of support are concerned, surely today we have been counting on the maternity clinics to manage this support, that if a family needs diverse support, psychological services or so on, the maternity clinics will take care of this. But in my opinion we must in future think differently, and this comprehensive support must be linked to early childhood education services, this whole. It strengthens quality and also the position and protection of children and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u111	Mr. Speaker! Today we have dealt very extensively with the new report on early childhood education, which is likely to become existing legislation in the next few days. At the beginning of my speech, I must also thank Sirkka-Liisa Anttila, the most experienced female parliamentarian in the history of Finland, for a very competent, insightful and heartbroken speech. It included both a long parliamentary experience and a strong life experience — a strong female influence and also a strong mother, grandmother. I can sign all those words about how we should strive to raise the whole village and worry about our children above all, but then about the children of our neighbours and the surrounding environment. It is the only way in which we can control, for example, these detentions that epidemicly exist in Finland in modern times. Mr President! This new proposal for a law on early childhood education is a very important piece of legislation. One might say that this is, in a certain way, a stone-foot law, a law that in practice affects if not every Finn, the close circle of every Finnish person. In this respect, the Committee on Education has done a very good job, consulted widely with experts and prepared a law that would work in practice there in day care and in childcare facilities. In particular, I would like to thank the members of the Central Committee on Culture and the chairman of the committee, Mr Tuomo Puumala, who, on the basis of a good government proposal, have tried to refine the pains that have been going through during this hour's debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u114	Mr President! I was right to see from that caption that Mr Kurvinen is a Master of Laws. Congressman Li Andersson is not here, but he whispered when he left my ear that you were there, Jukka. And that is what I want to say now, Mr Kurvinen, a young and smart representative, that Mr Andersson has never, in my hearing, underestimated or said that the responsibility for raising the child is not the responsibility of the parents. on the limitation of the right to day It is basically a question of the fact that the quality of the right to early childhood education is the right of the child, which must be independent of the labour market status of the parents. And if this is an ideological question, then it is, but do not do, Mr Kurvinen, an ideological question on an issue that does not exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u115	Mr President! ‘Artificial orideological conflicts’,representativeKurvinen. I am really sad that the fellow Member has such a delusional idea of why opposition parties have defended the right of children to full-time early education, regardless of the work situation or other socio-economic status of their parents. In the course of these debates, I have never heard any representative in this House defend the view that Mr Kurvin put forward in support of the demands for subjective early childhood education for all children, and that has not occurred in today's debate in the Chamber. This is not a trivial matter, it is a very serious and important matter, and we have not justified it on any ideological or ideological point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u116	Mr President! I would like to comment on Mr Kurvisen's excellent comment on the different families so much that it is precisely in this way that we have to take account of different situations in families and different forms in legislation and in all activities. This conversation always seems to escalate as to whether it is the right way to raise only in the home and family, or whether it is the right way to raise only there in early childhood education. I would like to see such a central discussion on this subject too: yes, both the family's protection and the teaching and protection that has been gained there in early childhood education are important for the child, that is, both are needed. This always seems to get a little worse. In that sense, the reform of family leave, which was also raised here by Mr Kurvinen, Mr Anttila and Mr Nylander, is of the utmost importance for us to achieve this next season. We take all these forms into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u117	Mr President! I do not understand how these things, as it were, rule each other out. Of course, parents can and must have the primary responsibility for raising their children, but that cannot rule out the fact that a child is entitled to early childhood education for more than 20 hours a week. I do not understand how it can be justified that this is an ideological choice or something like this, because, as Mr Kosonen has said here, it is both necessary and necessary. And if Mr Kurvinen does not believe that the child should have that right to early childhood education, then perhaps he will understand it when the studies show that in the municipalities where these limits have been imposed, the cost has increased and bureaucracy has also increased. Is this what they want?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u118	Mr President! Children are entitled to early childhood education, a 20-hour right, but freedom of choice is important to the city centre. Many parties would be prepared to cut home care support to get funding for early childhood education, thus depriving parents who want to take care of their children at home of the real possibility of this form of care. It is important for the city centre that families, which are still diversifying, can make their own choices. We should not decide when a parent is at home or whether, for example, a grandparent can be at home to care for children or whether the family wants to take their children to day care. Often the same family uses different forms of treatment at different stages of life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u119	Mr President! Here, apparently, when this conversation was taken to this kind of value and attitude level, it then went under something under the skin. Of course, I do not want to offend anyone, but I will be the first to correct Mrs Nylander's comment: I have not said that there is no right to early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u125	And one last response to this debate, Mr Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u126	Mr President! Thank you. — In many municipalities where this limitation has been implemented, the cost has increased because more groups have been set up, and it is indeed possible to question that. If Mr Kurvinen really wants to invest in other important issues and services, is this the right way, because bureaucracy has increased and costs have increased in many municipalities? These facts can be verified. The Ministry of Education and Culture has commissioned a study. Then I will think about this family leave reform when it comes to home care. Is it not possible to replace home care support in part by obtaining longer rights to be at home, both parents and both?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u127	Let us take a few more comments. I understand there was a long debate here earlier. I got one of those batons, but let's keep this up for a while. — Mr Myllykoski, you will not be deliberately forgotten, no one ever, nor you. So now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u128	Mr President! It's great not to be forgotten. — But now the debate has actually been forgotten a little differently. We have moved on to education when we should talk about early childhood education, which involves access to learning conditions for every child in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u131	Ladies and gentlemen! Let's see if there's any more answers. The names of Mrs Parviainen, Mr Vahasalo and Mr Kosonen are still here with regard to the replies. - No, they're not. These are the actual speeches that have been requested. So let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u132	Mr President! I will return to the staff structure and training. It is true that there was a somewhat flawed wording, as we have used the term in the report. It unnecessarily increased the confrontation. I myself interpret the messages and the voices as to the fact that there was now a little willful desire to exacerbate the situation in order to promote the own goal of people with different educational backgrounds. But it is our job in this Chamber to put things in a way that we represent the whole picture and strive for the best possible. Mr Andersson raised this case in Poland several times. Personally, I do not know the background and I do not want to speak out for Poland or against Poland, but as a municipal decision-maker, I think it is important to maintain part of the services as municipal services and to bring wealth to that, then, that there is private early childhood education service. Especially now in this situation, as the value of education within municipal decisions increases with the transition to the province, I would see it very important that the municipal early childhood education service is organised by the municipality itself. Finally, I fully agree with Mr Nylander that it is now important to integrate these services into a whole, which is certainly a wealth of it. Child health clinic services alone cannot solve this situation, but need to have the ability to speak in all these services. I would like to highlight the "Children for Speech" model, which explains the needs of the child in the context of service activities, as a preventive perspective requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u133	Mr President! So the old law on early childhood education dates back to 73 C.E., and in my time I took a bill for its reform, and it was signed by over 100 representatives, and it has just been patched up. Progress has been made one step at a time, and we are now in a situation where the last umbilical cord on the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is broken. Up until now, early childhood education has been considered a part of social work, and now it is no longer a social activity. And I am a little surprised at the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as to where that opinion comes from. This bill is now firmly linked to early childhood education as part of the education system, as its first step. For example, the word pedagogy was not found at all at the time on the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health’s side of the day care law, and why should it have been found, because that half of the sector would not have been there. The starting point is the priority of the child’s best interests. The game is a child’s job, so even though it is part of the education system, it does not mean that school starts early, but that the game is used to support the development and growth of the child and to take advantage of the sensitivity periods of the child’s learning. We haven't been able to use them. The other side is that when there are challenges in growth and development, early intervention on the early childhood education side will help the child with the whole career path of his life, making it easier. That is the whole point of this. We hope that special provisions on child support will be made in the next parliamentary term, because this is not yet ready, but there is still a lot of progress to be made. The fact that this early childhood education is now part of the education system is also bound to be reflected in the structure of the staff, which is now being clarified and clarified, because there is a very different educational background for those who work there. We want those job descriptions and job descriptions to be consistent with the training of staff, with the competence to make the best use of staff skills for the benefit of the child. Every profession working in a day care centre is still needed, and they work there as full equals, equals, equals, but they have different tasks, because at the moment everyone has done everything, and then they cannot get it out of the way. This is the peculiarity, which has not been the case in the past, for these transitional provisions to extend up to 2030 to these new qualifications. Even our war comes sooner than this. Anyone who is now studying or working on the stability and training that he has will continue to do the same level of qualifications and the same task. This change in qualifications now applies only to those who are only now in school, who are not yet at the age of choosing a study — then they have to be told — so this is a fair game for everyone. We have had a number of – a few at least I remember here – changes in the level of eligibility where the transitional provision has only been for a couple of years and every one of them has had to acquire a new qualification at that point, so this is really like a soft model in these qualifications. Then they've been calling for why the head of the daycare centre has to be a master's degree. If you have read the government’s proposal, at least here in the detailed explanatory statement says: ‘The setting of the minimumrequirements by the proposed side is that the management andplanning of pedagogical and pedagogical skills of employees is more effective in the management of daycare centres. “ So he's like a pedagogical leader. The socionomist of early childhood education has a degree in the social field and the master's degree in education has a degree in education, so they have a slightly different starting point and perspective. Both are needed, and each has its own strengths. This is important to note.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u136	Mr President! I myself have two children, and as an experienced expert I can tell you about group family day care, public and private, and also about the practices of two different cities. I can also see how valuable work is being done there with our children and how people will eventually be affected. This early childhood education law is extremely important for the uplifting of pedagogy, but ultimately it is essential to hold and secure these children. They, such young children, will not learn anything if there is no safe environment for it. This law, which led us to make seven statements in the Committee on Culture, has been very contradictory, but in that way it has also been an excellent performance for all of us, that we are now at this stage and, hopefully, we will soon be able to formalise this. However, this has, over many decades, finally been the result we are going to get out of it. These concerns have been expressed here on a number of occasions, and I think that what we have said will respond perfectly to all these concerns, even in the expert hearings. The first is the equality perspective, and we really expect the Government to monitor and then evaluate the impact of this law on the equality of these services throughout the country in all population groups. A great deal has been said about this staff structure, and here too, in particular, the opposition has raised the issue of the human resources of early childhood education groups, which we then had to change because of the government negotiations. To this I could say that this is very different in different cities, i.e. you cannot put a sign of equality in the size of groups of children in cities, just on the basis of the ratio, because there are very different nursery facilities. It affects how children are able to operate there and how staff are able to act. I have experience with a small town where this size has been raised, but the space makes it possible that it does not feel like it is cramped at all, but then the situation in the big city was quite the opposite. But this staffing is a challenge, it must be said honestly. We also expect that the effectiveness and effectiveness of the provision on personnel allocation will be monitored urgently, because, even now, there have been such continuous deviations in different cities, and I also asked a written question about this a few months ago. Although there is a regulation currently in force that the ratio cannot be constantly and day-to-day deviations and should not last throughout the day of operation but should be short-term and occasional in nature, this is still being violated in some municipalities. Now we have raised this statement to a degree and we demand that, if necessary, adequate legislative measures be taken as soon as possible to guarantee the interests of children, so that this does not happen in the future. As a third statement, we have this desire for a comprehensive set of regulations for support in early childhood education, for which Mr Grahn-Laasonen has already replied that it is in the process of being prepared, and it is hoped that it will then become a reality during this term of office. Fourthly, we have a language issue in which we take account of sign languages, both Finnish and Swedish, and the safeguarding of their early childhood education in their own language. The last three statements still concern the staff structure, the adequacy of training places and the number of graduates, so that we can really monitor the fact that this law, which will be fully in force in the 2030s, will then be able to achieve what is needed. The good thing about this law is that this entry into force period is long enough for these specific parts to be able to see if it will actually be possible. It is also extremely important that regional and linguistic care is taken to ensure that these early childhood education teachers are trained throughout Finland and in all parts of Finland. I cannot help but note that, at the moment, kindergarten teachers are being trained in Joensuu, where the training from Savonlinna was transferred, and there have been unfortunate long-standing breakages in education. With regard to that final statement, it is excellent that these training opportunities and opportunities for career advancement should be secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u137	Mr President! I tried to fit everything into my reply, but no — when I have lived in Häme my childhood, a little bit of slowness always comes along. However, of these training opportunities for staff: It is a good thing that they are specifically raised here, but it must only be realistic to say that the committee that gives the report has no budgetary authority. We already know, as far as the training of engineers in construction is concerned, that they are applying for adult lines together with young students. This is what we should have made possible. Perhaps we should have taken a bolder statement in the report that we are securing adult education places in such a way that socio-economics are given sufficient access to training. It would have been kind of that. Now, there is good text, as it should be, which means that there must be opportunities to become a leader, even if there is, but there must already be opportunities for training, so that we actually also have the opportunity, on the adult side, to receive the same kind of education that makes it possible to move forward in the career. It would have been particularly important to include it. But when Mr Nylander said whether the family counselling centre is the place or whether it is early childhood education, somehow I see it as a whole. In this family counselling system, which Imatra has had in Finland, for example, the number of detentions has decreased very strongly when the possibility of early intervention has been made. I would see as such a personal opinion that it is perhaps better that it is not the place where parents meet the person on a daily basis who becomes a so-called complainant, but that it comes from one of the places that takes care of the family together when it comes to cases even before pre-school education, and even then we would be involved in this family counselling system. I would be firmly in favour of progress on that basis. We certainly agree that the decision of the centenary was the right one, and then, on the basis of the study, we can say these things, which are good channels, that we can extend this thinking to the welfare of children and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u138	Mr President! I'm trying to be brief. I have before me a statement from the Federation of Finnish Teachers from yesterday — I do not know how wide the distribution has been. It contains the title ‘Improving the quality of early education’,andthereforethe followinginits opinion:‘SOOL is amazed that earlyprivatisation of education has not taken place in a broad and up-to-date socialconferencing,for The growth of the private sector as a producer of early childhood education services has now taken place in silence.” Here, at the beginning of the discussion of the early childhood education law, when the Minister for Education was present, I think Mr Li Andersson asked the Minister a question he did not answer. The question included the Minister's view that the municipality of Poland has decided to privatise its early childhood education services completely. So the Minister did not answer this at all. I do not want to be ideologically uptight in that way. In my opinion, early childhood education services are available in Vantaa and many cities, even in Tampere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u141	Mr President! Now I have no idea what Mr Gustafsson said.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u144	Mr President! That is precisely how it is now thought that the resources are sufficient, but when that budgetary power is not the issue at this point, then that must be taken care of. However, I can take comfort in the fact that we will certainly come after it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u145	Mr President! Absolutely the last speech. I ask Mr Vahasalo: does he and the assembly agree and does it now take the line of the assembly that if the municipalities privatise comprehensive school education — the importance of early childhood education itself in very parallel with primary school — then small municipalities and medium-sized municipalities can privatise primary schools so that this is the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u146	Mr President! This is a question of the law on early childhood education, and most importantly, this law now really sets the same requirements for all providers of early childhood education, regardless of whether it is a public or a private organisation. And I do not think that this should be the subject of a basic school debate, but that there is already a situation in which we have public and private providers of early childhood education, and so it is very good that this law, hopefully, will soon come into force. This really clarifies the legal obligations of the organisers, but not so much creates new obligations for municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u147	Mr President! What bothers us here is that, here in every case, and especially in this bill, we want to force confrontations. Private and public, different categories of staff and training — everything is set against each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u150	Mr President! I myself would see this day care or early childhood education — whether it is public or private — as more a question at municipal level as to the rational use of resources, the size of these groups remains reasonable and the services are available throughout the city. I do not understand what the qualitative difference would be, so that the private person would be better or worse than public day care, and of course they must be monitored on the same criteria. Nor do I understand the idea that early childhood education or day care can be compared to primary school, while the basic purpose of day care is to allow parents to work even though they have children. And children can also very well be without day care, they can also be in home care. School is then something quite different, because it is intended to teach different things according to the curriculum that are needed to live and survive in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u151	Mr President! It's very brief. I believe that there is a need for both public and private actors in early childhood education services, but I think it is extremely important that we have the same rules, the same criteria. It cannot be that we pick only raisins from buns and then say not to this child, because it is like this and so much need for support and so on. If we're in, then we're in on the same rules and criteria. But both are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u152	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 11/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u153	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 11/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u154	Mr President! It seemed for a while that we had to get the kids to sleep first before the females could go hunting, but now we're at this point. In other words, this is a bill to move the female from a calmed bird to an unsettled species, and therefore the damage of the female can be better prevented when it has to be hunted. This is made possible by the fact that the female is covered by Article 7 of the Birds Directive, i.e. it is not a protected bird in the EU, although it has been protected by the Finnish Nature Conservation Act. The committee would like to emphasise that, as in the past, an exemption should continue to be applied for during the breeding season. However, the application for an exemption will be transferred from the environmental administration to the game administration, which will certainly speed up the acquisition of the permit during the period of exemption, i.e. during the breeding period, and, above all, it will become cheaper. But most of the damage caused by the females is done outside the breeding season, and then the females can be hunted, taking into account normal hunting rules. In due course, we weighed down the presentation of this legislation, precisely because, at the same time as the walnut is moving into a species to be hunted, the criterion for its compensation goes away, i.e. when compensation for the damage caused by the walrus has been reimbursed by around EUR 100,000, this compensation would not be in the future. However, since compensation for damage caused by animals can no longer be paid in full, it makes sense to remove species that are not really endangered and can then be reduced by other means. We should not be nervous about the fact that the female is being hunted in the eyes of the shine of killing. I don't think it's the kind of game that anyone would do that. Only when the females cause damage will this be the case. The committee did a great job, even if this law came to committee on Thursday and we are already dealing with it here. That is, if there is any will, the law can be passed very quickly if necessary, and thus can be put into effect as early as 1 January. the day of August at the beginning of the new hunting season. That's good work. And this was also a fine activity in that the committee itself raised this issue in its previous report. In fact, the committee has made it perfectly clear that this legislation, a very positive, good change, will make it easier for many farmers, for example in the fight against bale damage, or by way of derogations, for example, berry farms or many other companies in which the females cause stock damage, so well achieved. In this report, the committee then drew attention to the explosion of bird populations in terms of cormorants and white-cheese geese. They are part of Annex II to the Habitats Directive, i.e. they are protected species in the EU, and we thought that hunting for them, so-called hunting for protection, should be possible within the framework of the Nature Conservation Act when it comes to a million-dollar column. At the end of the EU, it should then be assessed whether there are grounds for threat, but as long as they are there in the annex, it is better to carry out protective hunting on the basis of the Nature Conservation Act. We demand that measures be taken as soon as possible. Thank you to the committee, and I say that this report contains an objection from the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u155	Mr President! It is great that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry believes that hunting for the protection of cormorants and white cheek geese should be possible under the Nature Conservation Act, so that damage can continue to be compensated, and that the committee considers it necessary to implement this regulation as soon as possible. This is indeed an important addition to the text of the report, which now obliges the Minister of Responsibility to do something about the problem of cormorants, and I hope that the Minister will take action with a very, very rapid timetable. The cormorants are causing a great deal of damage in our coastal area. They tax the catches of professional fishermen, destroying the flora and trees of their nesting islands with their feces. The nesting stock of cormorants has grown strongly in Finland. It is high time that regulation was made easier and that protection hunting for cormorants could be carried out in an effective way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u156	Mr President! We are now dealing with the amendment of the hunting law, which in practice means that the female is transferred to the list of unsettled birds. This amendment of the law now allows more flexibility and efficiency in limiting damage and harm caused by females. As we heard from the presentation of the report by the chairman of the committee, the females cause a great deal of damage. In particular, they break feed bales, confuse feed stocks and, in part, food processing facilities. They also nested in chimneys and climate channels. In other words, they cause significant crop damage, endanger hygiene levels and directly bring the risk of salmonella into food production facilities. This decision will also dismantle red tape. So to date, you have had to apply to the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomen ely-keskus for a permit for the destruction of females. Although they have understood this problem and have always made positive decisions to date, it has taken up to two months to apply for an exemption, the time for processing it. In other words, the damage caused by the females has already gone a long way forward in those facilities. Indeed, in committee, we also considered that hunting for white cheek geese and cormorants should be possible under the Nature Conservation Act. We know that on the southern coast of the Kvarken region, in that coastal-Suupohja region and then around Vaasa, there are already large areas of destruction caused by cormorants in particular. I consider this particularly dangerous in relation to the UNESCO World Heritage Site, which is in the immediate vicinity of the town of Vaasa: do we allow the cormorants to destroy such a rare nature, which has been recognised internationally? And let us hope that changes will be made to this. Last year, almost 5,000 people from the coastal Suupohja region signed a petition asking for these cormorants to be destroyed. Yes, the footage received there was really, really unsettling. By these birds, the fine island was completely defiled, with nothing but white stones and tree trunks. All aspects of nature had been beaten out of there. In fact, the female has already been on the agenda for several parliamentary term periods. When I myself have had the opportunity to be in the esteemed Committee on Agriculture and Forestry since 2009, I remember from that time that the committee was talking about this problem of sausages. In other words, it can be said that the problem has already been recognised over several years of government, and precisely that this issue needs to be dealt with. Fortunately, we have now found a government base that took the committee's concerns seriously. And, as was heard from Mr Kalmar, the chairman of the committee, the committee took the initiative here and proposed this amendment to the law to the ministry, and the Ministry, after consulting us, took up and made this proposal from the government, which was then dealt with quickly. Furthermore, I would like to express my greatest thanks to all those Members of Parliament from the opposition parties in the committee who were behind this very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u157	Mr President! To begin with, this government proposal does not concern the amendment of the rules on the calming of the cormorants or white-cheese geese, but only the female. To begin with, it is also good to say three points. Firstly, there has been an increase in the female population, and secondly, the female population is clearly causing damage in places, such as crop damage and environmental confusion. Thirdly, there is a need to prevent and limit the damage caused by women. There is no doubt or disagreement on these points. Mr President! The second point is whether, in some areas, such as Varsinais-Suomi and Ostrobothnia, the correct sized measure to limit local and point-like damage is the transfer of the protected species to the list of unsettled, i.e. hunted species, in accordance with the Government's proposal, where current legislation makes it possible to limit the damage by affecting, among other things, nesting possibilities and evicting and hunting females in the context of the derogation procedure. As a general rule, derogations have worked well. As an intelligent bird, a female quickly learns to avoid areas where they are disturbed and shot. The derogation procedure for the female is an administratively light process. Derogations are granted on a multi-annual basis and only rarely complaints are made concerning derogations for female. Mr President! At present, the costs of damage and the prevention of damage to farms are also reimbursed. This practice, with the government's proposal, would disappear altogether. The Ministry of the Environment has stressed that allowing the killing of females outside their breeding period alone is not enough to eliminate the damage caused by the females and that other means should continue to be used to reduce the damage, where an effective method already exists and its use is possible. The Ministry of the Environment also stressed that, in the event of a change in law as proposed by the Government, it should be stressed in the communication on the changing status of the female, that hunting is still prohibited during the breeding period and during the breeding and rearing phases of the different offspring. Unfortunately, these aspects of the committee's report are not sufficiently taken into account and, in part, not at all. Mr President! Removing the calming of the whole species is a rather pervasive way to prevent local damage. Both the Natural Resources Centre and the Finnish Environment Agency pointed out in their opinions that a change in the law proposed by the Government could cause harassment and destruction of females even in areas where it does not cause damage, which in turn does not contribute to the overall acceptability of hunting, which I consider important. Mr President! For these reasons, I have tabled a motion to reject the draft law in committee and I will also make that proposal at second reading. I would also like to point out that, when the Government bill is implemented and the female enters the list of unsettled bird species, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry should ensure that the effects of the change are monitored not only in terms of the damage caused by the female but also in terms of the size and distribution of the female population and in order to verify possible changes in the presence of the female.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u158	Madam President! Mr Halmemenpää said that prevention could prevent damage. This is not the case, because the walnut goes very far from the nesting site to eat, and in practice you can think about what if, from a mile radius, all the nesting sites are mapped — a rather desperate job. Or who's on duty next to the bale line, watching that the female won't destroy the bale? Instead, when the female is a learning species, we hope that the females will then understand to leave the area to areas where they can fly free when they do not come to the courtyards or to the edges of the fields to destroy the crop. In addition to that, it must be remembered that when these derogations were applied for before, even if they were:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u159	Madam President! Mr Halmemenpää mentioned in his speech that in this context it would not have been taken into account that hunting is still prohibited during the breeding period and during the various stages of breeding and rearing of young children. This is not true, because the committee drew particular attention to the fact that all the birds were protected during the breeding season, so the female will also be subject to a period of conservation covered by the breeding season by a Government decree, during which the catch of females would only be possible under the derogation granted by the Finnish game centre or the notification procedures provided for in the Hunting Act. In other words, this has been taken into account in this committee's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u160	Mr President! That is right, Mrs Hautala, that is the point of the report. Apparently, you were imprecise in listening to what I just said. I said that this amendment, in line with the draft law, is not enough to eliminate the damage caused by the females alone, and this communication should then highlight the fact that hunting is still prohibited, and this emphasis on communication is not there in the report. Those points, which the representative mentioned, are in themselves — that the hunting rules are complied with — but it has not been emphasised in any way that this communication should be taken into account. Mr President! As President Kalmari said there, the female is indeed a learning bird. It disappears where it is disturbed and shot, and this is what it does with exceptions. When derogations are granted per year, two or three years at a time in accordance with current practice, I have interpreted and received the answer of the responsible authority from the Ely Centre in Varsinais-Suomi that the effectiveness of the derogations has been good and impressive. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u161	Madam President! The population has increased so strongly that, in my view, with derogations, the situation can no longer be controlled. Let me give you an example of my own municipality, Liperi, where there is a mill and there has also been a dairy: there has been an increase in the stock of bears and an attempt has been made to proceed with derogations. Those females have not gone anywhere from there but continue to disturb life in the entire church village. In any case, the situation is that we need more drastic measures now, and it is an excellent thing that the Minister and the committee have tackled this problem, and now I think that this solution is a good one, and that it can live up to it. It is clear that they will be calmed down during the nesting season. We all know that during the nesting season the bird is being calmed down. If that is the case, this proposal is very much to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u162	Madam President! It is important to note that, in addition to causing a great deal of trouble in rural areas, the females also cause it in urban areas, as was suggested in this previous speech. I'm from the paper industry. There, too, in the stocks of the forest industry, the females pose a major problem. And as far as this bird learning is concerned, there's this kind of destruction scone: the sparkle of CDs. For a short time the wimp will learn to dodge that warehouse, but damn it, when it is so docile that it will remember to come back to that warehouse when these measures no longer work. The female is also a very clever bird, and that is how it causes a lot of damage in urban areas. From berry bushes and cherry trees in a few days, it will destroy the entire crop if the people of the house do not happen to be hasty. In that sense, this learning should be emphasized, but it is also a damaging quality for that bird.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u163	Mr President! As Mrs Halmemenpää said earlier, this dismantling of the calming down of the whole species is quite a powerful way of tackling the problems that the female is really causing and which have allowed the female to apply for an exemption for its eradication. And as has been pointed out here, the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomi handles and has granted them — and indeed for several years at a time — so that in that sense it is a light procedure. Now that the calming down of the species would also mean that no compensation could be claimed for these damage, which, in my view, is very regrettable for these farmers, who have been harmed by the cow and who have been able to apply for compensation before. This policy is breaking out. But I must now ask the chairman of the committee and wonder how the Ely Centre of Southwest Finland, which is the authority which is currently handling and issuing these derogations, has not been consulted at all. It would have been extremely important for the Authority to have also been consulted,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u164	Madam President! First of all, Mr Halmemenpää: the very first sentence refers to ‘preventive measures’ and to this legislation in addition to the future. The expert hearing was decided by one thought to stop, and we had heard all the key umbrella organisations. Later, Mr Halmemenpää did quite rightly raise the question of whether the expert hearing would open up again, but we felt that the Ministry knew the same things as Ely, so we did not decide to reopen the expert consultation, and this was also a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u165	Madam President! A couple of things. —This was the subject of a request for an exemption, and this Yes, it must be said that every time something like this is asked for a derogation — whether for a week or three years — it is extra work. The government's line is that we must try to reduce this kind of extra bureaucracy, and here is an excellent example of the fact that these are the ways in which this bureaucracy will be reduced. As a second point, I would say that it has not been emphasised separately — or perhaps it has not been emphasised separately — that the female must not be hunted or disturbed during the breeding season. Hunter, responsible hunter, complies with the hunting law. For over 40 years I have been hunting, and I know that neither the female nor any other mammals or birds are allowed to be disturbed during the breeding season. It does not need to be highlighted separately in the law. It is enough for the hunter to comply with the current hunting law and the hunting decree.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u166	Reply Mr Halmemenpää, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u167	Madam President! Now, it sounds a little like we're going to put Finland in shape one wimp at a time. I do not think that this is one of the greatest threats to Finland's future. The female does not lose with exceptional permits, nor does it disappear by hunting, and the purpose of this bill is not to destroy the species of birds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u168	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u169	Mr President! Transferring the female to the list of unsettled birds will allow more flexibility and efficiency in limiting the damage and harm caused by females. It was wondered why such drastic measures were being introduced. Simply because if a stock of animals or birds grows too big and causes serious damage, then drastic measures will be introduced. In this respect, I would like to thank the representatives of the government parties and the government for this proposal, and in particular the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, who has been very firm in taking this matter forward. I am very pleased that we in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also had the courage to tackle another problem. This came also from the president's proposal, thank you for that. As we have heard in previous speeches, coastal cormorants have grown too large and cause local damage to both the fisheries and the recreational use of the area. The committee added such a paragraph to the text of the report: ‘The committee considers that the hunting of wild-goose geese and meridians can be carried out in the area of naturalprotection law,wherein damage can be Further :‘The committee considers it necessary to implement the regulatory framework as Now my eyes turn to the ministry, namely the committee's addition to the text. We look forward to a rapid regulatory change so that we can tackle the growing problem of cormorants and white cheek geese.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u170	Madam President! I put down the full calming of the female in my written question as early as 2011. I repeated my motion a year later in 2012, but the first-period MP was not heard, let alone listened, especially since I was in the opposition and the responsible ministry was unaware of the rural problem. [Central Group : Ohoh! ] My last written question on females was submitted in 2015. That's when I looked at the dog problem from the point of view of the rescue services and the sweep. The female is present in a large part of Western Eurasia and also in North Africa. The female populations in Finland are strongest in the southern, western and eastern parts of our country, but the female population has been found to nest in Rovaniemi and Kemijärvi in recent years. It is estimated that between 110000 and 130,000 females are nesting in Finland. The stock is quite abundant and is getting stronger. As a result of climate change, the female population has become more widespread, as has been said in many speeches here. The city bird has become a bird likened to seagulls in urban and rural areas. The damage caused by women is compensated every year by tens of thousands of euros. The claims for compensation are multiple. In the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the reduction of female damage requires a reduction in the female population. As has been heard today in a number of speeches, the means of expulsion are inadequate and no longer work. I think that the number of victims is directly proportional to the number of accidents. If damage is to be reduced, it is my understanding that we will then have to reduce the cause of the damage, whether we talk about the female or other, for example, the large beasts of land. Article 7 of the EU Birds Directive makes it possible for the female to be unsettled throughout the year, so the female can be transferred to the unsettled birds. It is therefore possible to reduce the number of females in accordance with the provisions of the Hunting Act. Mr President! With reference to the recent discussion, I would point out that all the birds are protected during the breeding season, all the birds, the sledgehammer with the others. During the calming period, catches are subject to an exemption permit issued by the Finnish game centre or the notification procedure provided for in the Hunting Act — in other words, if a bird is to be caught or disturbed during the calming period or during the breeding period. Outside the cleaner, such a procedure will then no longer be necessary if and hopefully when this law passes. I would like to stress that females cause damage all year round, but the biggest damage occurs outside the breeding season. After the amendment of the law, the damage caused by the females will no longer be compensated. This issue was dealt with in committee in a thorough and almost unanimous manner. Only the representative of the Greens opposed the lifting of the full calm of the female, as has been heard on several occasions in this Chamber, and he left a different opinion in the committee's report. The committee raised the issue of unsettling this female as a matter of its own. I would particularly like to thank the chairman of the committee and all those who have contributed. I pay particular tribute to those representatives of the opposition who saw the meaning and purpose of this law and who stand behind this amendment of our law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u171	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! There have been many good speeches here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u172	Madam President! Let us discuss an extremely good government proposal and a good committee report. Now that this matter of the wuss is under discussion in this government here in Parliament, it is indeed the last moment to take on this big disadvantage now in actual fact also. The hearing in that committee has also been raised here in this debate. The chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, in his presentation of the report, expressed the scope and consensus of the consultation, and now Mr Mikkonen questioned why the Ely of Southwest Finland had not been consulted during the hearings. Nor was one of the exempted farmers who had managed this handicap over the years, let alone one of the farmers or operators in the food chain who had never applied for an exemption, or who, in some way, experienced an activity in the exemption process that did not go along with it. Well, of course, the conclusion of the consultation was a unanimous decision, of course, as the chairman of the committee said here, and if these two parties had been consulted, I do not believe that the majority of the committee's position would have changed. Although Mr Halmemenpää and Mr Mikkonen here have just proved that they have been granted derogations and these are long derogations, in my opinion they are still quantitative permits, i.e. they are not, in that way, free authorisations for the removal of disadvantages. In that way, too, there is control over the number of them that will be destroyed during that period. But when we go to this time before this law comes into force, it is clear that there have been different operating models for these expulsion procedures, and when, for example, these blank pipes are expelled — no matter what kind of food farms they are — then the females will disappear for a while, and then they will almost come to the end of the pipe to sit and watch, because the next time comes. So the female is such a wise animal that it will not disappear from that handicap area by mere harassment. I sense a little that there is a question here as to whether this disadvantage is now so extensive. Mr President! We have representatives from all over Finland, and we are contacted about different issues. Yes, I have at least had a contact network that has come to me a little along Finland from these females over the years. And I believe that there have been quite a few of these disadvantages there in the province of Halmemenpää and that you have also been able to reach out to them. Take, for example, the farmers who have suffered so much from this handicap and consider what they have been prepared to do so far: they have banished them, they have covered them, they have made fearers, they have made protection of the building, they have visited them at night to be alarmed. So it has been extremely hard work, and if we now think of this kind of opportunity to dispose of also by shooting or ending these females, then this to no extent means that this whole species of birds is being removed from our nature. There's no point in scaring me and telling me that this is what's going to kill the entire female population. Not to any extent. But, Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that we are talking here about the disadvantage, which is what we are talking about throughout the food chain, of any kind of food production: the primary producer, the farmer, the dairy farm. Then there are various seed packing plants and fish processing plants, where these are harmful. There are all sorts of things in this food chain, and the pollution that comes out of it, and when they break those packages and so on, there is a risk of disease that fortunately we have not had any major problems yet, but of course every day that risk increases. I also used in committee as an example that all you have to do is go to your own village market on Midsummer Eve and see how much the females are interfering with our food sales in the market, at market events, staining the city's roofs, which are really unethical. Which means there's been a lot of harm to these females. When I return there to the handicaps of the farm, I cannot help but equate them with the fact that when the big flock is actually being destroyed, destroyed, it is a bit like a rat fight. When rodents enter a livestock building, it is a little similar: start to feel hopeless at some point, but they have to be removed so that their own production can also continue from the point of view of food safety. Mr President! This is an extremely good government proposal, and it is an extremely good report which was made very quickly in committee when this came to us. That is a completely acceptable point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u173	Madam President! “Take off” is said I must say that, in principle, Mr Halmemenpää raised the three points by which he justified his own critical view of this in certain respects, and I fully agree. It is quite clear that the females cause damage and are, for their part, harmful animals and their rejection must be able to react, but I would like to hope that the issues raised by Mrs Halmemenpää regarding the exemption procedure and the breeding season, and so on, the representatives of the committee, will not condemn as inappropriate or unfounded views. They're fact-based truths. I personally support this report. I am quite sure that my parliamentary group will probably be divided here, and that is not out of my mind. The debate was quick and we had good hearings, but certainly Mr Mikkonen's observation that we could have heard more was correct, because then we could have verified what was quite well established in the committee that authorisations had been granted. Although the chairman of the committee pointed out that there have been complaints, I was not quite clear about the percentages of complaints. But according to BirdLife Finland, for example, they have not made one of the selected exemption procedures. What others have done is another matter. It is regrettable that we were not able to act in such a way that this would have gone through the notification procedure. It just wasn't possible. We are still subject to that exemption procedure when we talk about the problem of nesting time, and that is a fact. This does nothing other than perhaps making it easier to apply for derogations when this comes to the Game Centre, so that the application for permits for the EUR 150 charged by the Ely Centre becomes a price of EUR 70. It is supposed to be the path that lowers the threshold for the trader to be able to apply for an exemption when costs and administrative bureaucracy... Well, the bureaucracy of the administration won't get away with this, but the prices may come closer. I would have been personally in favour of this kind of notification procedure. It would have been smoother and even easier for bureaucracy and it would have been desirable to bring this problem to bear. We must admit that these damage is significant and must then be able to look the truth in the eye, so to speak. Here, Mr Hongisto did not courageously use the word wolf, but here I am taking out what Mr Hongisto did not say. He certainly also meant that we should be able to react in that sector as well. It is unfortunate that this is no longer possible to apply for compensation, and this is part of the risk that producers who do not have their own opportunities or have no cooperation with people with a hunting licence will be a little out of it now, then that they will not even be able to apply for compensation, and that is a bad thing for the producer. Of course, there have been few requests, but I believe that this is often due to bureaucracy and a rather expensive EUR 150 application fee. Madam President! When the committee went on to deal with this issue, we were very exclusive that we should be able to make a solution to the damage caused by the females, but I am a little sad that we then brought in the cormorants and the white-cheese geese. Well, we hundreds of people don't have that problem anymore, but we've moved it to the north coast. We have had good experiences of what can be done by eviction. The entire population of cormorants could be transferred from the sea-beard to the Swedish-speaking region. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u174	Mr President! We humans affect nature very much. We influence what is the plant situation, what is the animal situation, what is the climate situation. We also have to take responsibility for all of this, and the responsibility is that, for example, this issue is now on the table. Thank you for taking that matter seriously here and taking it forward. I don't know the whole bird. Fortunately, we don't have it in East Lapland, but we have impossible animals and problems in East Lapland that we don't have anywhere else. I am very grateful that they too are being addressed here, even though they are not the problems of this back door at all. What, then, is our situation on different sides? We have our own problems, we really do have many predators, and it is nice that we have really been able to tackle them here in Parliament. This matter of compensation for damage, which has now also been discussed today: none of us wants to live on compensation funds. Those compensations are the last thing to do. We must always first think about how to prevent the damage. That prevention is the first thing, and, fortunately, it is now also the case that we are actually trying to do the right thing to prevent the damage, and then we should think about it, if they come to someone else, what we are going to do in this job. The amount of compensation for damage has been fully used, which can be paid by EU approval in Finland. That is a very worrying issue. For us in the reindeer sector, it is difficult that many people have now had to cut back on the compensation that people should have received. Reindeer men would definitely have preferred to keep their reindeer rather than feed them to predators. The number of predators has been increasing and increasing, and that is not anyone's wish. At least no one's come to me to tell me that they really want that reproduction to happen. The bear is the worst cause of the damage. It is the worst cause of damage because now, even in summertime, when it kills a reindeer or a sheep or any other animal, there will be nothing left of it in two days’ time. There's no way to detect the damage. The number of bears has increased very much in Finland. Their permits have now been slightly increased, but certainly not as much as they should be. We need to be able to pay attention to how they can be removed more. That is why I really understand the gawdy stuff when I know that we have our own problems, and these are people's problems. The number of animals in certain cases increases a great deal when we have not managed these things in good time. There has also been a debate today about the cormorants. I myself am the chairman of the Confederation of Fisheries, and there has been a great deal of mention of these seal and cormorants. Although we have only seen one of those cormorants once and that, too, caused absolutely absurd damage, we now understand the situation of the cormorants very well. Simply evicting a problem for a neighbor is certainly not in anyone's interest, but the whole cormortasia must be able to be resolved sensibly in Finland. I have now been able to learn a lot about the cormorta situation around Finland in the coastal area and see what kind of beast it is. That situation must be addressed in some way. The situation in Finland is that, if we are concerned about animals, we are also concerned about the quantities of fish on the coasts and we are also concerned about these coastal fishermen and that we are not allowed to eat domestic fish, because everyone goes to the mouths of cormorants and seals. The seal is also a beast in my eyes, just as those great beasts of the earth are. The number of seals, like the number of cormorants, has now increased exponentially in ten years, quite absurdly. We have a responsibility to the natural situation, and we really must tackle the number of animals. It is no one’s advantage that certain animals then dispose of other animals so much that there the balance of nature, or biodiversity, suffers a great deal from this. We must take responsibility for this whole. Now that certain changes have been made to the hunting law, fortunately, several times during this parliamentary term, I personally hope that at least one proposal will be made in the near future, and that change will be to these hunting permits for the targets. Landbird hunting permits cannot currently be handled by tourism companies at all, and it is very important that local tourism companies, especially in Lapland, should be able to sell their target hunting permits so that they can ensure their own programme services and other tourism products and livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u175	Madam President! There is an urgent need to remove the sedative in the females. I think this is good news. The Government proposes the transfer of the female to the list of unsettled birds of the hunting law and has submitted a proposal to Parliament. The Act is intended to enter into force as from 1 August 2018. So the long-awaited decision is now finally coming into force. I hope that the law will be given swift treatment and entry into force. The hardwood population, which has grown strongly in recent years, has caused damage in both rural and urban areas. Females are causing crop damage, breaking silage bales, nesting in chimneys in buildings, mixing storage facilities, causing all kinds of dissipation with their feces around swarming areas. Today, in order to compensate for the damage caused by women, the Ely Centres have been able to apply for grants. In the 21st century, claims for compensation and grants have increased, indicating a significant increase in the population and also in the damage caused by it. For example: between 2012 and 2016, the total amount of the grant has been over EUR 400000. In the future, after the amendment of the law, compensation for the damage caused by the females would no longer be paid. The catching and killing of females would take place in the future, within the limits of the hunting law, outside the breeding season of the females. The breeding time of all birds has been protected, so the regulation would also provide the female with a cooling time of the breeding time. During the time of pruning, birds must not be killed without a derogation, and therefore not females. I have nothing against the birds or even the females, but if their numbers become excessive, they must be able to limit them. This principle could also be extended to white cheek geese and cormorants. Of course, it is possible to continue hunting them under the Nature Conservation Act. Of course, the positive aspect of this is that when it is done under its law, there is also the possibility of applying for damages. White cheek geese and cormorants cause a lot of harm and dissipation here in Helsinki, the capital region, but also on arable land around southern Finland. Here again, I hope that Parliament will be able to take action quickly. With derogations, I do not believe that these matters can be handled effectively enough, because, as has been shown here in the debate, the female is indeed a learning bird. It learns the tricks and also learns to dodge them. In the urban area where I live, the disadvantages of the females are aesthetic but also cause a lot of uncleanness. There has been a huge increase in the number of female flocks, and figures have been presented here as the total number of females. Personally, I would like them to be quite low, because even a visual observation is significant in the sense that there has been an increase in the number of females. So no females will be destroyed, but the problems that women cause will be eradicated and eliminated. That is why this bill is very good and worthy of support, and I hope it will be dealt with quickly and will indeed come into force at the beginning of August. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u176	Madam President! This proposal, a very good government bill, suggests, among other things, that the female be placed on the list of unsettled birds, which allows for a more flexible and effective limitation of the damage and harm caused by females, and the most important of these words are ‘more flexible and effective’,as has been the case in several times. During the time of littering, the bird is still protected, as are all other birds. A great deal was heard in committee about the prevention of female damage, but, especially in the field feedback, farmers have come to say that the method is very laborious, and it is very frustrating for many, because the female, as a learning animal, comes quickly to the scarecrows and the like after a while, so that intimidation does not work very well for a long time. On the other hand, as we have heard earlier, this has caused the problem to simply move to another place, which means that the problem will not go away, and this proposal now has the objective of eliminating the problem. Further consideration should also be given to regulating the stock of other harmful species. The committee raised the issue of white-cheese geese and cormorants, but other species also cause quite a lot of these problems. For farmers, the main problems have been the cranes and swans, especially in the autumn. They eat huge areas of grain fields. The compensation is also very marginal, and these baffling measures are very difficult to implement. These issues should also be addressed without any bigotry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u177	Mr President! The proposal is certainly necessary and justified. Sometimes I am entertaining myself by thinking that if someone who still has common sense listened to this session, what would he think? I would assume that he would wonder why such a matter should be discussed at all. If there is a species of birds or other species with a sufficiently large strain to cause significant harm and to endure hunting, why not hunt? This is weird when we talk about birds. This is particularly strange when it comes to the dangerous great beasts. Are we really so alienated from nature and its cycle? In reality, it is, unfortunately, complicated, especially for the sake of the EU — it is also a problem here. But if I have understood correctly, the EU has not prohibited us from allowing her to hunt at national level. It's just that we haven't decided to allow it. More generally, the dismantling of protection seems to be surprisingly much more difficult than the adoption of a conservation decision, and it is good that the committee has taken a position on the possibility of hunting an enormously damaging cormorants. It is now the case that in Åland, hunting for cormorants is already possible by their local decision, so we do not want to get worse here on the mainland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u178	Madam President! I think it is appropriate to have this debate here as well. We are now seeing what situation has taken place. If you think about where the female is and where she is, where she has been in Finland, then the bird has never been in Eastern Finland. When you think of theft and the place of theft as an industrial area, we have a huge number of females and they have spread to that factory. Especially during the wintertime, when I was working outdoors in my previous working life, it was good to watch them move to the landfill as frostbite. It was at 9 a.m. when they went there, and after 2 p.m. they came back to the factory to warm up after the frosty mornings, so they had food from the dump. In view of this, I have come to think that the female has become such a bird, which is a spreader of the disease. In my view, the destruction of the female, or the form of this law, is quite justified in this situation. They also spread diseases in the yards, they come to all of us. They move very much, and they eat from birdboards. It may cause other, these common birds, diseases that they can no longer endure. But as far as this goose pattern is concerned, I think we in Finland are protecting geese very well. Our hunting times are very limited, and when you think about this migration goose situation, those herds are very great when they fly in spring and autumn, but when they go to Central Europe into the territory of the EU countries, such as Holland, and land there in the field, they are asked to use nets to get them out of there. The reason is that they soil the fields and feed that cattle eat, and in this way, in a way, they cause the production of milk to be contaminated and the production of meat to be contaminated by feces. That is the argument why it is possible to ask for them there. In my view, even in this context, when we talk about the situation of white-cheek geese, we have not yet gone too far. I understand the cormorta situation. For us in Eastern Finland, it is a rare animal. It has not really been seen much there, perhaps a little observation may be, but I understand that where it has been troubled, they want to reduce it. I have to say that Finnish nature changes quite a lot these living conditions, when such things as a sea rake are found in our inland areas of theft. It is considered a very rare bird, but we have it already come to that area, which means that the birds are apparently moving by warming the weather and by the climate change of other species to wider areas. We are now in a situation where such new animal species come and then have to adapt to them. If there's too many of them, then they'll have to be removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u179	Mr President! As has been well demonstrated in this debate, we all share the common picture of the increase in the female population, the increase in the female population and its spread to a wider area than in the past, and the damage it causes is also different. And no one has said that this calming down will somehow result in the walrus disappearing as a species, no. I think that Mrs Myllykoski was very concerned about what these problems are, what this growth in the female population has led to, and how they can be addressed and prevented. As far as I am concerned, this dismantling of the serenity of the female is a very and too strong way of tackling local and point-by-point problems. But there are indeed problems, and that is why we have now had this exemption policy, and I would see that it would continue to be the channel that should be used. More Members have said that it is not possible to remove the problem with an exemption, but when I understand that this derogation has now specifically applied for the permit to hunt, and in the same way the problem remains, even if we are now hunting a bird without an exemption outside the breeding season. That is why it is extremely important to find other ways of keeping the sandstock in check and how we can ensure that they do not cause the damage they undoubtedly cause. Although we may imagine that now that calm is dismantled and can be freely hunted, then that would be the solution to this problem, I do not think it is likely to be, but it is still causing damage to agriculture, and that is why, above all, we should think about other means. It has also been pointed out many times that this change in status also means that no compensation will be possible in the future for the damage caused by the leather, and I think this is a bad thing for these producers or others who have received these compensations, because even if hunting is now being increased, I do not think that every point will be able to dispose of those birds before the damage has been done. Indeed, perhaps now, as a summary of the fact that we really must try to prevent damage, but we are now using too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u180	Mr President! As has been said many times over the evening, the very strong growth of the population is causing significant economic damage, additional work and costs for both housing and entrepreneurship, and, in particular, for agriculture and the food industry, also a significant risk of hygiene. That's why we're going to take her down. The committee had a firm, expert and almost unanimous hearing on this issue, and the conclusion of which is that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry's positive position on the year-round calming down of women and the rapid implementation of the amendment of the law is clear. The female will not become an outlaw with this change, as has already been said many times, but restricting tranquillity only to the time of nesting will help effectively to prevent and combat the damage caused by the females, because most of the damage caused by the females has been done outside the time of the future nesting. If expulsion measures and measures to combat them are not effective enough, even during the breeding season, females may in future be requested by derogation from the Finnish game centre or under the notification procedure laid down in the Hunting Act, and so on. I would therefore like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for raising this issue and for driving it forward and Minister Leppää for his vigorous handling. It is also to be welcomed that the committee's position in the report is that hunting for the protection of cormorants and white cheek geese should be possible under the Nature Conservation Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u181	Madam President! I would like to thank you for a good debate and I would like to correct one further misunderstanding, perhaps a little, as to whether the notification procedure can now be applied to the female in the future. Yes, because it has now become a species to be hunted, and now the decisions on derogations are made by the game administration and, once this decision has been taken, the notification procedure can be followed. If someone were to get excited about complaining, even if, after very great consideration, the authorities had made a decision, and only on a damage-based basis, and if anyone had to complain about these matters, then the notification procedure would no longer apply. In the last two hours, I have been told, for example, how the permit decision has been obtained after a reasonable period of time and, for example, ten females and ten males were granted permission and it really took a couple of months and cost 160 euros. It's very expensive, and every time I've had to pick this up separately. If we now consider, for example, food facilities where the problem is at summer time, or other cases where the problem is at summer time, these problems can be tackled when it is timely and not when, for example, the berry harvest has already been destroyed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u182	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that this amendment to the hunting law has been brought about, and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has produced an excellent report. This is a change of law that I greet with great satisfaction, because I have seen in my own neighbourhood the way that the females have terrorized the environment. There are so many of them where they hurt. I happen to have a very good forest edge area in my yard with a lot of squirrels, and it is interesting to follow them in the winter, but for some reason these squirrels have disappeared, and the reason is this walnut. It has terrorized, put to death, apparently eaten these squirrels in its mouth and, of course, causes such cosmetic harm when it is constantly running. But the amount of feces they sow in the nearby area is quite impossible. Let it be that it is a single phenomenon in nature, I understand it — it is an important creature even a wimp, it must be admitted — but there should be a balance in these discussions when the positions of these creatures must then be regulated. Otherwise, things will get out of hand. A good example is this white - cheeked goose. In Finland, we have a very strong impact on our livelihoods under the Nature Conservation Act and various conservation regulations in practice. In the Central Karelian region, Rääkkylä—Kitee-Tohmajärvi region, I visited the damage done by white cheek geese last spring — huge damage. In this hall I do not believe that anyone would believe me if I went out and described what happened in those fields: when a flock of geese landed in the field, the 10 acres of field was eaten overnight, the whole crop was destroyed, and of course, when the farmer does not get any substitute food for the useful animals, namely cows and calves and other cattle that he necessarily needs in his livelihood, the game is lost. Besides, these birds spread various diseases. I don't even know what they're spreading. Here are better experts who know what diseases are coming with those birds. But what is the background in Estonia and Sweden? There's no problem. They know how to handle things. It is quite clear from this that we are being attacked by people who are purely rural in nature conservation, and that we are doing things that are detrimental to industrial policy. The same goes for the cormorta. In Sweden it has been taken care of, as in Estonia and the Baltic countries it has been done with style, it is not a problem there. This will inevitably prove that these various nature conservation projects in Finland prevent sensible business activities, which unfortunately is mostly targeted at rural areas, since there are hardly any farmers' fields in the cities. And when these small-scale farms collide with such obstacles, which are artificially created in the name of nature conservation, even a small loss of harvest will lead to a negative result, and then we will be faced with very difficult issues. I would hope that one day in the Finnish Parliament there will be heartwash enough to recognise the facts and stop harming people's livelihoods with these nature conservation issues. There's room for all these animals in this country, but there's a lot of reason to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u183	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen had an excellent speech. As far as these skins are concerned, how do the greens view the rats? These are similar disease spreaders and eat grain and livelihood from all people. If rats enter the territory of the Greens, even here in the city, then they will be destroyed. It doesn't ask any conservationists anything. But at the moment, nature conservation programmes give a one-sided picture. Among other things, I watched a show on the females about how necessary a bird this is. However, the feedback that comes from the countryside is different. The same is true in the cormorants: in the area where they are located, the position must be regulated so that they can be dealt with. Swans: For example, if more than one pair of swans come to a small area, they throw the others out of there, waterbirds and all. It's a very angry animal, and now it's out of control. The same with these white cheek geese: nothing more than all the extra pots. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u184	Madam President! This proposal for a change to the hunting law is good and welcome and the guidelines of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry are excellent. Especially good is the removal of the calming of the leather and the fact that the problems caused by the leather can be addressed more conveniently and smoothly in the future. We have had examples of the rumba and bureaucracy caused by this female hunting, and now this problem is easier to solve. I do not believe that the female population is particularly affected by this, and if it were to happen so funny that it would start to be an endangered species again, then the legislator will be able to intervene again. I believe that Mrs Hoskonen raised an extremely important issue by talking about the problem of white cheek geese. Indeed, the marks that can be seen in the parks here in the capital region are limited in comparison to the damage these birds in swarms do elsewhere in Finland. Unfortunately, in this context, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry was unable to resolve this white goose issue, but hopefully in the near future Parliament will intervene and deal with this issue in such a way that the damage caused by white goose can also be combated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u185	Madam Speaker! This was about to happen to me almost like a woman who was destroying — badly — when she had the floor and there was no information that the list was moving faster. But it was great that this opportunity came to talk when sometimes I feel that there will not be too many of those nice, everyday decisions we made. Sometimes I feel that the good decisions we make will only be reflected in people's everyday lives years later, but this is a government proposal and this report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is a very pleasant one for many people in rural areas and, in particular, for many farmers. At least we in southern Ostrobothnia, in my own region, have had very serious problems with the females, and this has been one of the things I have received a lot of feedback from myself. I consider this to be a proposal and an act that reduces unnecessary bureaucracy. It is part of the smoothing of government regulation, and it is also such a facilitation of practical everyday life. I would therefore like to express my thanks for the fact that Minister Leppä has pushed this forward, and I would also like to express my own thanks to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, chaired by Mrs Kalmar, who has taken this forward on a very broad basis. This has not been a government-opposition issue. That's excellent. That's a good performance. Here, too, previous speakers have pointed out the problems caused by many other protected species, and I share that concern. The damage caused by the cormorants is terrible. It is an ecological disaster, and it is the destruction of nature that the animals, the birds, are currently causing on that coast. I also think that we need to find sensible solutions to this wolf issue. We just have to get the permits. The wolf doesn't belong in people's yards. It is not normal that even in Kirkkonummi and Espoo wolves are already running around people's yards. By the way, Mr President, we have little challenge in the fact that when the species are calmed down, of course its stocks will increase, and then it is humane that there may be a harmful number of them. Somehow we should react more quickly to this increase in stocks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u186	Madam President! Indeed, I welcome this good report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A few more words about the various harmful measures taken under the Nature Conservation Act, which specifically affect people in rural areas. This female work is now quite good, the cormorants too, as well as the handicap for farmers caused by white cheek geese. I was just looking at a photo with Congressman Torniainen last spring, 2017 in May. The area of the field, according to what I've seen, is about 15 hectares. It can be bigger, but it can be at least 15 hectares. During the night, when a flock of white - cheeked geese landed on it, the whole crop was lost from the field. The farmer was desperate. He said quite frankly that he is seeking compensation, but when it is not enough, because when there is a shortage of livestock food, of course the seller knows that the price is rising, and the money he receives in return is so small that it gets nothing. In practice, the profitability of the holding has passed from that year. Well, if it were one year, ladies and gentlemen of nature conservation, if it was only a one-year allowance, the farmer would probably get away with it, but when it comes to the fifth year, what are you doing, ladies and gentlemen of the Green League? Will you go to that person and say that we will pay these bills, pay fuel bills, feed bills, vet fees, taxes, insurances and such? I'm sure you won't. Another example of Kuhmo last autumn. It has nothing to do with the female, but it is still related to the Nature Conservation Act: wolf. The Natural Resources Centre has just released its wolf population estimate, 200 individuals in Finland. Last autumn, when moose hunting began in the Kuhmo area, the Kuhmo Game Management Association did a wolf stock count when it happened so happily that it was snowy, and as we know, the wolf does not move after the snowfall. It's a very local animal, it stays in place for a few days before it starts to move. In that calculation, 33 wolves were counted in the Kuhmo area, Estimated by the Natural Resources Agency for the same area 5 wolves. I'm not saying that The figure calculated by the men of the Kuhmo Game Management Association is right for the million, but it is quite certain that it is right with 20 percent accuracy, I dare promise. So 25 to 40, in between, it hurts. According to official estimates, Kuhmo has 5 wolves and a real figure over 30. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, when there are two little boys in the house where I went, and they have a situation in their lives where children are not allowed to go out on their own, if the father and mother, when they are farmers, do not have to watch the children outside and protect their playtime, then who does? Is this right? When you see a wolf or something like that in southern Finland, a bear, the Air Force is on the move, the Navy, the border guards, the police and anything. If this were the case in Kuhmo or Ilomants, we would have a constant state of emergency, quite continuous. Cops would be constantly guarding people's safety and the army would probably be securing the children's school path. Madam President! With this speech, I wanted to prove that yes. There is something seriously wrong with the activities of the Natural Resources Centre, which cannot be made when the damage caused by local people is calculated and what is, for example, the mass predator. Or we are dealing with a problem which is commendablely good: thank you only to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to the excellent chairman and to the committee as a whole for having this job done. We should take this open-mindedness. Such a bright headset of protection that exists in this country: Take a look at those sea areas, by the way. There, the Baltic seal and the grey seal eat away the livelihoods of all fishermen. Then, ladies and gentlemen, our only option is to eat foreign fish and get dioxins and other good additives into our bodies. Of course, the good thing about it is that when you get enough dioxins, this earthly toxins and worms don't leave the grave wondering what's wrong with this guy when nothing bites you. This is a serious matter, but I hope that one day you, ladies and gentlemen of the Green League, will descend from the ivory tower to real life, visit the farm to see what farmers see today, for example because of these geese. Or great beasts: Do the two little boys in the evening have to have a guarantee that their parents won’t have to watch them in the yard or Grandpa won’t have to or Grandma is somewhere else? Ladies and gentlemen and the management of the Natural Resources Agency there, if you happen to hear — I have not yet seen the director of the Natural Resources Agency who would have genuinely come to listen, yes, they will pretend to hear but will not listen — where is your morality when you do this? I do call for the honesty of the civil servants, which is required by law, and the condition of the Civil Service Act, to uphold the common good and to act honestly and openly. This has not been done, and I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u187	Madam President! Your illustration that the greens are in the ivory tower was so lame that I cannot sign it, and I find it somewhat confusing that you use such a parable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u188	Madam President! Returning to the actual issue under discussion, to the proposal to amend the hunting law, to the Finnish Hunting Association in its opinion and to a number of other experts in their opinion, says: ‘The female bird, which learns to avoid the damage to which they are being killed. “ That is the case, and it is precisely for this reason that the exemption procedures currently in place have worked well, according to the granting authority. It is not, therefore, a matter of understanding that we do not understand that the female population has increased so that, in addition to eviction measures and the networking of buildings, it must also be hunted, but I would ask you so that you do not understand that shooting is not the final solution to the problem, nor is it the kind of red tape that you use as a justification, because during the breeding period the exemption procedures are still in force. I believe that the fact that derogations have now been granted for two or even three years is a rather flexible practice, and that is a good thing. But as far as current practice is concerned, I disagree that when the price is EUR 150, I think it is quite high and then it could be made more flexible by lowering that price. The committee has indeed dealt with this issue very quickly, so quickly that, before I could understand it myself, the expert consultation had already been concluded and it did not hear either the farmers or the person granting the waivers or, for example, Evira. No expert report has shown that the female has become a bird, which is the vector of the disease, and this is why the particular risk of hygiene is that of the female being transferred to hunting. Dear friends, if you have a birdboard outside your home, there are serious diseases. I suggest you wash your hands every time you do business on a birdboard. But at least the committee has not been informed that the female is now somehow a special vector of the disease and that is what this draft law is all about. There are diseases in the feces of all birds. The female is no exception for either the better or the worse. Mr President! Let me add that wild animals do not engage in terrorism. I consider this type of expression of natural hostility to be quite inappropriate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u189	Mr President! Indeed, it must be noted with pleasure that this has been speedily moved forward. I hope, of course, that the issue of white cheek geese and cormorants, regulation, will also move forward soon. But when Mr Hoskonen raised the damage caused by the beasts, the animals that were protected by the industry sometimes feel that the trader is at a disadvantage. For example, the damage caused by predators to the reindeer industry. Compensation comes, but it certainly does not cover all the work and pain that it becomes. But many times I have wondered how stiff this system is at the point when this calming down should be dismantled. Mr Kurvinen referred to this. Could there not be such a system that when the population really grows beyond its sustainable level, it should be easier in some way to lose these tranquilizers? Of course, that would mean that the calculation systems should then be very precise, so it could fall into it. But I would hope that there will not always be such a confrontation when we try to resolve these issues again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u190	Madam President! I would also like to ask about the different types of predators, which have now been laudably dealt with in this way — and this is what we must do with the cormorants and so on with the white cheek geese and others — when the Natural Resources Centre is carrying out its large-scale predatory assessments. I remember the time when Alexander Stubb, when he was prime minister, faced a few of his careless percentages — whether he said it backwards or backwards — with the situation that was immediately the case. This gentleman, the Prime Minister, was immediately under great suspicion as to whether he was speaking next to the truth. I don't say that word when they say it's forbidden in this house, but he was accused of it. But what about when? The leaders of the Natural Resources Agency are twisting these predatory strains? Don't they have any responsibility? The Civil Service Act and also the Finnish law require that they act carefully and promote the common good. If there are 35 wolves in the Kuhmo area calculated and the official position is 5 and at the same time the Natural Resources Agency's worker there is engaged in wolf feeding and photography with state money, working time, using state equipment, then the question is whether this is correct. And I dare stand on my own feet, for, as I said, I have been there on the spot and seen the photographs. I am simply asking you, ladies and gentlemen, whether this is right for an official to do this. I am so sorry about this that those people in the border regions risk their lives every day, not just in Kuhmo, including Ilomants, Upper Savo, Vieremalla and so on. There are many mothers in this room right now. How many of you would let your own child play in the yard when you know that the wolf had eaten a neighbor's dog the day before and attacked the cows in the pasture? I am quite sure that in this Chamber the representatives of the Green League, as other men, are very well aware, looking away and acting as if they did not know anything. These children live there with a daily threat every single day. Every day they put a school backpack on the back and take us off the road, there's a threat ahead of us. If a parent does not have to take a taxi there by the side of the road, who will protect them? Evening prayer, morning prayer, hopefully — but it won’t help if a pack of lost people comes along. Here we stand and speak beautiful, good like this. But I would like to call for the attitude of the officials on this. Yes, a government official must obey the law and stick to the truth, and unfortunately this has not been the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u191	Chairman of the Committee Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u192	Madam Speaker! Mr Halmemenpää asked whether the centre did not understand that derogations could have survived. In all cases, derogations have not been possible and the notification procedure has not been able to be used as long as the female has been covered by the Nature Conservation Act. Now that it is a species to be hunted, the notification procedure can be moved to, and I do not believe that the game management people are going to ring birds when an exemption should be granted, but they are dealing with an exemption properly in time and, once it has been processed, they can proceed to the notification procedure. No one wants to kill a female from Finland. The female is part of the Finnish species and will remain there, but we will be able to combat the disadvantages and improve food safety. And as far as the cormorants and the white goose are concerned, we should be free to judge when a species is plentiful enough to cause unacceptable harm to nature, how we can reduce these harms to nature and humans.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u193	Mr President! I fully agree, as the chairman of the committee has decided here, that we really should be able to deal with these issues without enthusiasm. But, unfortunately, even in this debate, this did not quite happen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u194	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 15/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u195	Madam President! This government proposal 45 concerns road law, and here is a small presentation of what it contains and how it has been dealt with in committee. The Government's proposal to amend the Road Law is central to the regional reform. Since the proposal contains proposals which are not linked to this reform, which are timely and urgent, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has proposed to the committee that all provisions relating to regional reform be deleted from the proposal at this stage. According to a report from the Ministry, proposals for regional reform would be re-submitted to the committee with a separate Government proposal during autumn 2018. As a result of the changes presented, the provisions on road classification and trunk network, general road maintenance requirements, service level, maintenance and national transport system planning could enter into force as soon as possible. The committee welcomes the fact that the proposals of the parliamentary group on transport network funding for long-term planning and funding of transport systems can be made further. The main objective of the proposal is to ensure the quality of road maintenance through more efficient planning, a definition of the level of road service and maintenance and more efficient monitoring. The committee welcomes the fact that the proposal would lead to the Government's decision to define a transport core network of national importance. The committee notes in its report that the definition of the core network must not lead to the level of funding for other routes being too low to achieve the level of service that is set for them. According to the proposal, the objective is not to increase the correction debt by the backbone network or by other power or carrier lines and to maintain control of the debt also on the regional and interconnectors. The committee notes that the clear objective must be to reduce the debt to repair in the longer term. The committee considers the proposal of the working group which assessed the financing of the parliamentary transport network to be a minimum, from which funding should be developed upwards in the future. According to the survey, the service level and maintenance level set out in the proposal will require additional funding at least by the amount of additional inputs allocated to basic bus maintenance during this Government term. The need for additional funding is consistent with the additional funding of EUR 300 million for basic infrastructure provided by the parliamentary transport network funding group in its final report. The Committee welcomes the proposal to draw up a national and long-term transport system plan covering all modes of transport. By way of a change, the committee has added the regional unions to the list of people to be consulted who should be asked for a statement on the national plan. The Committee also considers it important that the planning and planning of the transport system also take account of private roads as an integral part of the transport system. The proposal also provides for roadside advertising and reporting. The committee has included in paragraph 4 a provision that the Centre for Economic Affairs, Transport and the Environment must cooperate with the notifier and the municipality concerned prior to adopting a restrictive or prohibitive decision. The Committee considers it important that cooperation should aim to find a solution for the activities of roadside advertising or advertising in each situation. In order to avoid existing problems, regulation is being modernised so as to make good use of road-side advertising and reporting, which is of practical importance for local activities, in an appropriate and coherent manner at national level. Mr President! The committee has dealt with the initiative on winter maintenance of roads in the context of the road law. According to the report, the measures proposed in the initiative are very far under way and the committee therefore proposes that the initiative be rejected. Mr President! Finally, I would like to mention that this report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u196	Madam President! Thank you, Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Pakkanen, for a very clear presentation. From this content of the law itself, it might be said that when everything related to the regional reform was removed, the changes concern road classification and the trunk network, general road maintenance requirements, service level, maintenance and national transport system planning. These are, to a large extent, issues that have also been addressed in parliamentary work: long-term planning of the transport sector, 12-year plans for road and rail rehabilitation and, through these, better access to EU funding. In general, it could be said that in committee hearings it became clear that this law has been fluently written and drafted in a genuinely interactive manner. I would also like to say here that, when the Ministry decided to remove from the proposal all the provisions contained in the regional reform, which in itself was the only right option, the committee unanimously drew serious attention to the fact that it is exceptional for such large-scale changes to be made to a government proposal without a supplementary government proposal. It is also good to thank colleagues from the government parties here in this Chamber for this unanimous and serious observation and good committee cooperation. Then what happens in practice? In order to achieve the objective of the law, the most important thing will be the adequacy of funding, new investments and road repair debt, as new, different financing options will almost cry out in addition to budget funding. It is also worth noting that an infinite number of major transport-related reforms are currently under way. Seamless cooperation and the management of entities require strict monitoring to ensure that these common objectives will be achieved in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u197	Madam President! From the outset, it is appropriate to thank the Committee on Transport and Communications for a good report and, of course, also for stretching in an exceptional situation. I understand the criticism put forward by the committee about the exceptional measures taken by the prolonged preparation of the social and regional reform, but at the same time I am grateful that we are finally making progress on the urgent transport policy projects not linked to the social reform. These include, in particular, provisions on road classification and trunk network, general road maintenance requirements, service level, maintenance and national transport system planning. Among these, a particularly good change in transport system planning is the transition to 12 years of national time span. In Sweden, for example, there has been good experience of such planning covering more than one parliamentary term. Long-term planning has been able to implement many large projects cost-effectively. We'd have a lot of need for something like this, wouldn't we? More than three months ago, we celebrated the completion of Finland's longest and oldest motorway project Turku-Valalimaa after 62 years. Similarly, we in Central Finland had to wait more than 30 years for the Kirri-Tikkakoski highway 4 to be implemented. On the other hand, Mr President, as the committee states in its report, financial adequacy will be central to the implementation of the law and the achievement of its objectives. A good objective here is the level recommended by the parliamentary working group. In turn, if funding is to be carried up, then options should be put to the debate to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the private side alongside public funding to carry out major and urgent transport infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u198	Madam President! The Government's proposal has long-awaited long-termity in the field of fairway policy and is a step in the planning of, for example, the national transport system. It's gonna be legal. The amendment of the law will also contribute to the implementation of the guidelines adopted unanimously by the Parliamentary Corridor Working Group in February 2018 when they are now made legal. The amendment of the Road Law does not remove the fundamental real problem, namely that there is no adequate level of bus funding and that there is no budgetary focus on bus funding. That is why this work to reform funding for the fairway must be continued in that parliamentary working group. What, then, is going to change in practice now? In the future, the law will lay down matters related to the classification of roads and the trunk network, the general requirements of road maintenance, the level of service, maintenance and the planning of the national transport system. In practice, for example, a 12-year national transport system plan becomes legal. That's a very good thing. This will also give us a long-term perspective on fairway policy, so that it does not always change when the government and parliament change. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that the debt of correction does not increase on the backbone network or other power and carry-on lines and at least remains under control on the sub-regional and interconnectors. It is also very important that the whole transport network is dealt with as a whole. Mr Pakkanen, as vice-chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, presented the committee's report very well and also raised this road-side advertising and information report, which was raised very well in committee, unanimously, on behalf of all the members of the committee. There was a desire to clarify precisely that the municipalities can also decide what things are to be said there and to inform everyone that the signs are in order. Representative In his own speech, Taimela drew attention to the fact that the Ministry of Transport brought in a very modified government proposal, which was much different from the original one. All matters relating to regional reform had been eliminated. In my opinion, it is very good that this could be done. This will also enable transport system planning to be rapidly regulated and good things to move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u199	Madam President! This proposal for a road law has been carefully discussed in committee, and much has been said about it. What was unusual about this draft law was that it did not really come out of the committee at all as it did then. These references to the provinces were deleted and replaced by Ely centres. I would like to make two or three withdrawals on this committee's reflection and on the positive aspects of this bill: The first is this transition to 12-year transport system planning. It is a very welcome change, and it will make our country’s transport system planning work more flexible and long-term. It must be noted that this 12-year planning will therefore be carried out at regional, future regional and then also at national level. In addition to this, we still have a parliamentary 12-year transport system planning team that is rolling in on this. I believe that by getting this process running and running, we will get better and better planning in Finland and we will get better results and better projects. It is worth noting, too, that the practice of how this 12-year planning works in practice has not yet been established, and it is certainly worth keeping an eye on Parliament as well as on how it will then be applied in the Office, the Ministry and then in this parliamentary working group. Well, it may still be particularly gratifying that the committee was unanimous in its approach to this EUR 300 million extra funding for basic infrastructure management. This is the recommendation of the first working group which considered the financing of the parliamentary transport system, and this parliamentary recommendation, therefore, ended up here as such, and I think that is a very good thing and shows that we have parliamentarianism here in Parliament. I am also very pleased and grateful to the good spirit of the committee and to the cooperation and consensus that this is Article 52 of the Road Code. Changes were made. So it deals with these signposts and billboards. We have probably all heard stories from different parts of Finland about how difficult it is to put different types of signposts in places where they would be needed in accordance with the peasant's sense: cultural sites and major centres of commerce and so on. The committee now wishes to clarify this point and to create conditions that will make it easier and smoother to set up these signposts and billboards in the future. In part, this also implements the Government’s deregulation objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u200	Mr President! I myself was dealing with this proposal, and I am mainly pleased with that report, of course, with the comments that have been made on how this removal of the provinces in the middle of the legislative process was quite extraordinary. With regard to section 52 and the dismantling of the sign bureaucracy, which has been mentioned in several speeches, it is of course a good thing that this proposal has brought about a little improvement, but whether it is genuinely corrected, I am not entirely convinced, because the wording that was finally introduced in that article seems a little watered down. They're talking about cooperation. Whatever that means in practice, it remains to be seen. Here seems to come up with a wider feeling that where ely, there the problem. Now, if the regional reform were not to take place, then I think that something must be done about the loathsomeness of the ely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u201	Madam President! It is good that the road law should be reformed and, above all, now that the regional reform is coming, we will be able to update the legislation. It is good that the framework networks should be defined more precisely and, above all, that serious attention should be paid to the maintenance and quality of roads. It is quite clear that today's economy demands that the interconnection networks are in order. This means, of course, the rail network, the road network. Water transport, too, is part of this, because if one day we are able to develop waterborne transport in such a way that heavy transport is transferred to the waterways, it will immediately ease the burden on the roads and also give more leeway to the network. However, one of the worrying aspects of this planning of the road network is, and I find it, the fate of Eastern Finland, worrying. One is the Six-way and the other is the railway line from Helsinki, which runs towards Lappeenranta, Imatra and from there to Joensuu and north. This rail network has, in a way, remained in the position of being a child. Since summer 44, after the peace agreements, the connections to Vyborg and, so to speak, to the larger world were cut off for a reason that happened, and since then the development of these transport networks has been a little slow, to be frank, sometimes painfully slow. On this point, Madam President, I hope that, with the new planning of the transport system on the way and the members of the Committee on Transport and Vice-President here, and with the dignity of the Vice-President, this message will now be made clear that the Sixth Road, and also this rail transport on the eastern border, will be ensured in such a way that it will be labelled as a trunk network and that it will be restored to the right level. Yes, Joensuu and Eastern Finland need a fast train path and a well-fitsted Sixth Road, and Route Six continues northwards. It is quite right that systems play on the west coast and so on, but just as important are the Six and the railway line on the east border, so I hope that the Committee on Transport will look into this. I therefore believe that the message will now be heard and Minister Berner will take immediate action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u202	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen made a good six-way speech, and I can assure you that a significant number of the members of the committee live along the road, so I believe that it will be taken into account. Representative Mäkelä paid attention to the Ely Centre. I personally feel that it is good to work in good cooperation with today's Ely Centre, and the negotiations are at least good in South-East Finland. Today we also had an excellent debate with them. All the representatives were invited there, and I believe that paragraph 4 of this paragraph, and that is where this matter relating to the advertisement, is important and this will provide good and flexible solutions for this. I would like to thank Mrs Taimela in particular, who drew attention to this, to which the committee unanimously drew attention, to this extraordinary method of abolishing these things as a matter of urgency, but it is indeed the case that, when this decision on regional reform is not yet complete, it is good to make progress on these other transport issues and legislative changes in order to keep to the timetable. Then we can return to these points after the regional reform has been completed. This was an important observation from Mr Taimela that, for reasons of timetable, this matter was taken up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u203	Madam President! In this way, as a member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, you understand the hand signals given by the police and ladies and gentlemen from the Chamber. That is why I will make a significant cut in my speech. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Taimela, who well described... I do not want to say that the members of the opposition, but the representatives of the committee, agreed to take this matter forward, and that was comforting to me. And although it was a very critical position about how the ministry is throwing the so-called unfurnished bone to the committee and we are going to have to chew it, I respect and give my appreciation to the advice of our committee, which, under the pressure and in the rush, was able to make this possible, that the government's wish was fulfilled and that law is now at this stage. Of course, Vice-President Pakkanen did make a good speech when he presented this report. This is gonna be more than a parrot sign. It was a good thing, and the right things had been raised. Then I would like to thank Mr Kopra for what is known as the toilet, who raised the question as to whether Article 54
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u206	Mr President! Of course, each province has its own transport projects, but I would still like to support Mr Hoskonen's view of the importance of the route on the Sixth Road and Lappeenranta and Joensuu. A lot's happened on Route Six. Yes, there has been a big change since it was made into two lanes, now the most recent section of Lummäe’s passage, which I drove down to the house today. It has speeded up the journey substantially, but the fact is that it is far from being able to drive all the way to Helsinki on a two-way road, but there are still areas with a small speed limit of between 70 and 80 kilometres per hour. In other words, there is room for improvement that there should be a transversal road along the whole journey in two lanes. At least that would be our goal. With regard to this double track, which has actually turned into something other than double track after funding has dropped to less than half, it would also be a project that would require more money. There's not gonna be two tracks on the whole trip with this money. And now the situation is that the state is trying, without any legal justification, to extract millions of dollars from the municipalities for the noise protection of their tracks. I don't think the government is doing this mean thing. It is only a question of not having enough money in the project, which means that funding would be urgently needed there too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u207	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 16/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u208	Madam President! We are dealing with a proposal from the government for a new road law which brings together the rules on behaviour in transport. The purpose of the new Road Traffic Act is to make road users act as consistently and proactively as possible. The Committee considers transport safety to be of paramount importance. As the rules change, especially in the early stages, the importance of taking other people's attention into account in transport will be emphasised, because it will inevitably take its own time to adopt new rules. The committee particularly welcomes the fact that the legislative proposal takes account of the introduction and development of vehicle and transport automation. I would like to raise a few points here. A pedestrian reflector and a cyclist's helmet: the committee welcomes the fact that the regulation on the use of reflectors and the helmet remains a clear message in the Road Traffic Act as to the necessity and importance of their use. There was a lot of talk about winter tyres and pin rings in the committee: in principle, the committee welcomes the introduction of flexibility in tyre regulation. The responsibility of motorists themselves is emphasised in many different contexts. However, the proposals on the use of winter tyres in the expert consultation have also received criticisms and concerns about the impact of the proposal on road safety. This was a matter of concern and concern to many members of the committee. The impact of regulation and compliance with it should therefore be monitored very closely and the necessary measures taken without delay, if deemed to be necessary. On many occasions, the Committee on Transport and Communications is also known as the Committee on Transport and Communications. In this case, there were also genuine road signs — many new signs, colours and their purpose. A few examples of some new road safety rules: There are a number of proposals that have also been negative assessments of the impact on road safety during the course of the proceedings. According to the proposal, vehicles would be allowed to leave the intersection using the most suitable lane without endangering or harming other traffic if there are two or more lanes on the crossing track. In addition, vehicle parking on the left side of the road in the direction of travel would also be allowed if it were carried out without endangering other road users and without endangering any harmful ground. The effects of these, in particular on safety, should be carefully monitored. Here are just a few examples, but as I said, the committee always looked at these reforms, particularly in terms of safety. Reform of the sanction system: The proposal proposes to reform the system of penalties for minor infringements of road transport by introducing a new administrative penalty, a traffic error charge. With regard to the system of sanctions, the committee refers to the in-depth opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of which the Committee on Transport and Communications has made a number of changes to the proposal. Development of automatic speed control: There seemed to be many experts in the committee. I'm one of them. A lot of photos have been put on the road by the police myself. The committee stresses that there should be a speed limit mark either in connection with each automatic camera or in its immediate vicinity. At the same time, it should be assessed whether there is a way to promote the attention of cameras in order to strengthen the preventive effect. This will also have an effect on road safety. The effectiveness of cameras in speed control is beyond doubt. Children's safety equipment also spoke to the committee a lot. The Committee considers the use of child restraints to be a priority. However, for practical reasons, the committee has added an exception to these safety devices, according to which the absolute obligation does not apply to the carriage of a child under 135 cm long and at least 3 years old in taxi transport. However, a child under 3 years of age must never be transported in taxis without a safety device. Mr President! This includes a few statements and I would also like to read them here. The committee proposes two statements for approval by Parliament, the first of which is as follows: ‘The Commission requires that the new road transport law reforms be made Second draft statement: ‘The Commission requires the Council of State to And also on this report from the committee, I would like to mention that it was also unanimous. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u209	Madam President! Since Mr Pakkanen, Vice-President of the committee, has once again given an extremely good presentation of this law, I shall make a few shortenings of what I have said. In other words, this road transport package under discussion is indeed 250 pages in its scope of report, and it already shows that this law has not allowed us, too, to become mossed over this spring by the Committee on Transport and Communications. The purpose of the law is to reduce the number of regulations and simplify the administrative burden, and it will also increase the responsibility of us road users for the smooth operation of transport and road safety. As Mr Pakkanen has already said, the committee talked about parking problems, the temporary stopping of vehicles on sidewalks and bikes, the safety of children, the need for a bicycle helmet, the turning of the yellow barline into white and, in particular, this change in winter tyre regulations, when it is intended to make regulation more flexible to respond to the changing weather conditions in Finland. This package is quite wide-ranging, and that is why I would just like to draw attention to the spirit of the two statements made by the committee: this is a very comprehensive reform that needs to be communicated to the various road users and also to follow up possible negative developments in terms of road safety — this is the spirit of one statement. The second statement concerns feedback from all regions related to parking problems for home care staff. Visiting times are already too short, and no unnecessary time can be spent looking for a parking space, and we therefore required, in the form of a statement, that the Government prepare, in cooperation with the municipalities, a uniform solution to facilitate parking. These two statements, as well as the whole report which was worked on in committee, were made in a very good spirit of cooperation, although the hearing was quite extensive and there were some points of this kind in the course of the debate. Thank the committee for its excellent reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u210	Madam President! I would just like briefly to thank both the Government and the Committee on Transport and Communications for their excellent work on updating the road transport law, or, as was mentioned in the referral debate on this matter, the national law to this day. Three in particular take good leaps for the better. First of all, it is a good thing that regulations relating to the behaviour of transport are finally brought together in one place and the resulting bureaucracy is reduced. All of us on the road know what the current road traffic law has produced at its worst. Citizens' time and money have been spent seeking interpretations of individual traffic offences. Secondly, it is good that this reform gives more responsibility to the individual road user. While it is up to our decision-makers to define the general rules of transport in this house, each of us road users is ultimately responsible for how safe our road traffic is. As these rules are easier to understand with this change and are grouped in one place instead of several separate acts, it will be easier to achieve this objective. The third good change in this proposal is its preparation for the needs of future mobility. Robotic cars and automated transport are also commonplace in Finland within a few years. The most visible change in the current situation is that a person who controls a car from outside the car will also be considered a road user in the future, and that after parking the vehicle will not be allowed to take off uncontrollably in remote control, for example. Mr President! The committee has made many sensible changes in its report. I would like to raise the committee's line on the use of technical equipment during driving and on speed limits in agglomerations. In addition, the problem of parking for home-based services has received an appropriate statement in the report. Of course, further consideration remains, and here one of the most important is this winter tyre regulation. Personally, I would have liked to have seen a clearer end date for the use of pin tyres in spring, especially since Finland has set a political road safety target of halving the number of road deaths from 2010 to 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u211	Mr President! Safety is absolutely the most important thing. We in the committee discussed this law very much, and then very often all these security issues were raised. We talked a lot about the helmet, the tyres, the use of reflectors, traffic signs, road paintings, the use of safety seats, camera surveillance, a lot of transport-related issues, and the first thing we talked about was how they affected safety. We heard a lot of experts in the committee, and that must have been a close thing for all of us, because this affects all of us. We are all on that road, and it is important for everyone to avoid all accidents as much as possible. When we heard the experts, a number of minor corrections were made to this law, just as the experts said and what we discussed this matter. I will now bring up one fundamental change. Many people think it is a minor side-effect, and it is also small in law, but for us Lapps and rural people and reindeer people it is really big and important and really important. It is a matter of people who use snowmobiles at work, in work, this is a big deal, namely the use of a protective helmet and the use of an emergency switch during work. I think it is very important that when a snowmobile is driven in leisure time, then the helmet is definitely used, it is not allowed to escape at all. I've seen and heard so many accidents around here that the helmet has not been used in these leisure sleds. Then the use of a helmet is absolutely essential. But now, when it comes to job assignments, it is a completely different kind of sled, which means that it is a very slow, peaceful sled. Originally in the government proposal, everyone should use a protective helmet for safety reasons when driving a snowmobile and an ATV and that the emergency switch must always be switched on before the snowmobile is started. This is an important issue, and this is what I want to hold onto. But reindeer husbandry and forestry are things where snowmobiles are driven at a very calm pace. And when the reindeer forest is driven on the sled itself — I know what it is — the speed is very slow, between 10 and 15 kilometers per hour, the snows come in between the trees, the sweat is on the head and you always have to jump off the sled and move around a lot, you have to see where the reindeer are going and where the other search crews are going. Now, fortunately, we heard these experts, and when the experts were consulted, then those people who have never heard of this kind of business before realized that it is a completely different matter, it is not a matter of leisure sledding where accidents have occurred. An important point for our committee on this issue too was that there have been almost no accidents at work. Then the experts said that if these security equipment were to be used in these situations, it would be a security risk, so this would just be the other way around. And then, thankfully, we made the changes. When I was in that reindeer parliament a couple of weeks ago, there was hardly anyone talking about anything but the fact that it is true that we have to start wearing a helmet when it simply does not work. Then we in the committee managed to make such an exception to Rule 93 ‘the obligation to use a protective helmet does not apply to reindeer husbandry or forestry work,or And the same then became available to the emergency switch in these duties for the snowmobile. I would still like to thank the committee for the fact that safety was always taken into account in all matters, but also certain exceptional issues were taken into account, because we must also be able to work on a number of issues. This was one of the days at work when I noticed how important it is that we parliamentarians are from all over Finland and people involved in different fields. Now I can also go home with this law when such changes were made. Thank you to the whole committee. It was great to have the conversation about everything that happened about how important security is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u212	Madam President! As already mentioned by the representative Taimela praised the presentation of the vice-president of the committee, and so did I. For my part, I shall try to stay shorter and will comment only to a certain extent on the speech made by Mrs Maijala. However, I hope that this interpretation of the law that we did on this helmet issue will not prevent people working on the site of power companies, for example, if the company requires protective equipment to be used through its own safety certificates, so that we would be in conflict with the company's desire to protect its own personnel. It's kind of a follow-up spot, how we want to act. For me, there was more justification for wearing a helmet than Mrs Maijala said, and I was also enlightened. I must say that I believe that in our committee everyone knows that we have reindeer husbandry in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u215	Madam President! This reform of the Road Traffic Act as a whole is a very large whole and I would like to emphasise that, since it is now a matter of such a large package and reform, this will be the case after this decision has been made here in Parliament, as well as the need to provide and share information on the content of this law so that road safety will continue to be maintained in the future. There's such big changes here. The aim of this reform is to ensure a smooth and safe and sustainable transport environment for all road users. Efforts have been made to make the law as unambiguous and understandable as possible, including by removing the legal burden of interpretation and shortcomings. This law also takes into account the introduction and development of automation of automatic vehicles and traffic in the future. It is worth noting that this government proposal also increases to some extent the responsibility of each road user in terms of traffic use and traffic safety and traffic flow. This also provides road operators, such as municipalities, with new tools to make transport arrangements in a way that takes regional conditions and needs into account. This brings together the traffic rules as large entities, creates conditions for the exploitation of technological development, and the reform contains a great deal of new traffic rules and traffic signs. It is also noteworthy that the road operator still decides on road-specific speed limits and that there may be changes to vehicle-specific speed limits. In my opinion, it is noteworthy, as has already been pointed out in previous speeches, that this is a large package and that the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications was unanimously adopted. Thank you all for that. If we had gone through every traffic sign or a traffic code — I can say that there must have been different views in committee, as I myself did, and there are still some that I disagree with, but this is such a big deal that it is not worth going through one road mark at a time. The same things that were discussed a lot were the fact that the fines were abolished and that the traffic error charge was replaced by this system of penalties. The winter ring rule was also discussed, and there may be a variety of views about it, and also about this, that when on the roads the colour of the barrier is changed from yellow to white, is it just right in Finland? A lot was also discussed about pedestrian reflectors and cyclists’ bicycle helmet
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u216	Mr President! When it comes to those snowmobiles and helmets, I remember when this expert came to us to tell us about these things, which apparently had such a personal experience that it made us understand in the Committee on Transport and Tourism what the problem of wearing a helmet was there when it was doing reindeer husbandry. The following day there was news in the paper that we do not have experts from Lapland. I think that was a bit confusing news, and I had to comment on it that at least the Committee on Transport and Tourism has been there. In general, this treatment was good-spirited and reason prevailed in many things, as in the helmet issue mentioned above, and that must be welcomed. The proposal was thick, had work to do and was wide-ranging and, to a large extent, acceptable. Previous speakers have already said essential things about how to deal with it. I would like to make a few of my own comments, which, along the way, raise doubts and may still be minor flaws that need to be considered in the future. First of all, this initial presentation of the traffic error charge was confusing. It even stirred up quite a public noise. It had doubts as to the legal certainty with regard to this reverse burden of proof, but now that the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has been examined, it has been substantially refined and probably now in an acceptable form, there is no need to propose amendments. Amendment of the winter tyre requirement and entry into the law: Even strong expert views were expressed that this change of regulation does not increase safety but actually weakens it, may even cause death as we take off on summer tyres, even though there should be winter tyres. It's hard to tell if they're right or wrong. It will be seen in the future when this regulation comes into force. At least, in my opinion, there were even very unsatisfactory expert opinions on insurance law and liability issues on who is to blame if these accidents occur while this new winter tyre requirement is in force, and then how are those compensations going to go? That too remains to be seen. This white line will hardly increase safety, at least in relation to yellow, for the better, but it is now in that law. Of course, comments were made and problems were identified about automatic traffic control, that is to say, the tint police, but the actual measures and clauses in this area are still a little hollow in this bill and in the report. I believe that this should be taken into account in the future, because mechanical speed control alone does not bring any road safety; it is also a question of transport as a whole and of the presence of a police authority in the traffic that lives there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u217	Mr President! First of all, thank you, then a little bit of not reprimands, but amazements. I would also like to thank you for taking into account in committee the groups that work on snowmobiles. I myself come from a reindeer herding area, and this is certainly a very good decision for them. Mrs Majala has already described the nature of this work very carefully, so it is no longer necessary to do so. But it is indeed a good thing that you have understood this and still do not have to wear a helmet on the ground. But then there's the other thing: You could have made it a little easier for elementary schools to train and teach. The definition of the use of a bicycle helmet ‘in general,it is a matter of ‘satisfactory’that I have had several separate discussions with schoolchildren of different ages,meaning that’s usually to be used’. If I say, then, that the next paragraph says that there is no need to use for medical or health reasons, there are many different explanations, yes, from children. It would have been good if it had become accurate, the ‘generally’ had been removed and had reached a minimum age to be used. It is the task of schools to ensure the safety of the school journey, even if the child travels without the school people. It always comes to the conversation when you come to school on your bike, if you have a helmet on. I would have liked this to be made easier from the point of view of schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u218	Madam President! This government's proposal for a road transport law was a wide-ranging package, and the committee took careful note of it and spent a great deal of time trying to clarify and improve it and consulted experts on a large scale. Among other things, this proposal contains important elements in this area of safety, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that the committee drew attention to the fact that much popular speed control is not the primary means of promoting road safety, but rather to the desire for a better presence and visibility of the police in transport. We understand that this is also a resource issue. Perhaps it was overlooked and not recorded in the report, but it was pointed out in the consultation of experts that the driver's driving condition is very important in the accidents that are taking place today, and that is something that we should certainly pay attention to. When the bill was submitted to Parliament, there was much controversy about this change in fine practice in minor errors, i.e. on the side of fines. It was said that in the future even a mile of speeding would be fined. Well, this will not be the case, but in practice the current tolerance will be maintained, and the police will also have the opportunity to consider on the road in case of an offence whether or not to impose a fine, but, as a rule, small speeding will not be allowed. This traffic error charge, which is therefore an administrative charge, is no longer a penalty for a crime, and that is good, for many of the speeding and this kind of minor offence really is an offence and not a crime, and it is good that citizens will not then be punished for such minor errors in accordance with the principles of the criminal justice system. This also means that in the future, after three offences, these offences, which have been convicted by traffic error charges, will not result in the loss of a driving licence, as is the case with the system currently in force, and this is a good thing, because the bread and livelihood of many people depends on the fact that the card remains and must be able to drive, even though sometimes the minor infringements and mistakes occur. They happen to us all every once in a while when we're in traffic. Furthermore, the committee had a lot of discussions on camera surveillance and camera control posts and expressed the view that these control posts should be marked in the future so that the controlled speed limit is immediately present on or near this pole, so that those travelling along the road know at what speed to pass the pole. The expert reports showed that there is often uncertainty on the road as to what is the correct speed, and this has resulted in unexpected situations when, due to certainty, slow down to low speed. If the President allows one more sentence: Representative The trout first drew attention to this need for information. This is a big change, and we really need to pay attention to information.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u219	Mr President! It is true that reindeermen talk about reindeer and taximen talk about traffic. They talk about what they think is their own business, and I happen to talk about reindeer sometimes. Of protective equipment, then, to use them, we must add that even reindeer men, many of us, wear helmets when, for example, we drive on ice for ice or something like that — all the people with helmets on. That's different, then you're not on duty, you're wearing helmets in that situation. But then on the issue of the power line, should there be a protective helmet there too, when the builders have to wear helmets too? There is also a huge variety of helmets, and it is certainly a good thing that, for example, in these electrical line situations, if there is a repair, there is a helmet in the head that prevents something from falling on the head, then there will be no harm. So, strictly according to the circumstances, these helmet issues. We then had many interesting discussions there in the committee on these issues, for example whether to wear a helmet when an old cabinless tractor drives potatoes to the ground. Well, luckily, we got the law in place that maybe then we won't need a helmet. Although I was wondering where, when you were really slowly driving that cabinless tractor out there in the field, you would have needed a helmet. Maybe I'm gonna throw a potty in the master's head, and now you're driving the wrong way. But then Mrs Parviainen raised the issue of the use of this bicycle helmet: would it have been a good thing if the legislation had made it compulsory to wear a bicycle helmet? We came to the solution that we put in this form that ‘usually’to wear a helmet, ‘usually’to use a reflector,however not to do so,that ‘must use’ because there is a mulch issue: it is difficult to monitor another. The text in which we put it in that law is not necessarily good legislation, because it is not clearly such a ban. But it is this kind of important, important and security-enhancing and guiding measure that we took this kind of weakness for this journey, and we tried to put the best possible way of this text into it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u220	Madam President! I would like to point out here what Mr Kopra has just said about this issue, how to take away the card from errors or small fines and, so to speak, take away the industry. This was particularly good, and I must thank the committee for having the understanding that it is a matter of particular importance for professionals and paid workers, because at the moment, if you are taken away from driving rights for three months, it means that you will not receive any money from your work because the employer will lay off for that period. It also means that when you have a problem with getting paid that it has been a mistake due to your own fault, you will not receive an income-related daily allowance either. In other words, double punishment for one error, which may also be a driver-independent cause, such as the lack of brakes on the trailer and the third time that comes into play. Many rural taxi entrepreneurs have these experiences that bread leaves. When that ban is imposed for three months, the school rides run out of time. This is very good and gives the possibility of making it more flexible for us not to be forced to go to a livelihood hatch, which may then be a loan, so to speak, until the next wages come. The closing line, the reflector, the helmets, the yellow or white line and the snow tyres: it is certainly the case that there were quite different views in the committee as to what was proposed by the Government or Government. Personally, I did not understand the yellow line issue, because under winter conditions it is more visible than the white line when we are in the snowy region, and neither does the automatics, as I do in my own car, sense these lines. It's not the color that counts, it doesn't recognize the color, it's the color we should have been able to see here, but things are moving forward. When it was obtained unanimously, it was better than being left behind. Here, too, there was a shared view with the MPs of the government parties that this was pointless going into a pan-European system. President! If you give me 15 seconds, I won't be in the toilet. — To the extent that this follow-up, which is contained in the report, is still important. We must monitor the situation of winter tyres, and I would like to see the focus of the Ministry of Transport and the Finnish Transport Agency on the fact that accidents caused by winter tyres follow what is the group that is going to happen to these accidents, because I am most afraid that those who do not have the wealth to buy winter tyres will then perhaps drive those summer tyres a little more carelessly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u221	Madam President! Mrs Parviainen raised a very important point and pointed out, specifically the use of a bicycle helmet: whether it is used and whether it should be compulsory or just a recommendation. In its own report, the Committee on Transport and Communications concluded that the Committee welcomes the fact that the regulation on the use of reflectors and the helmet remains a clear signal in the Road Traffic Act as to the necessity and importance of their use. When experts were consulted in committee on this particular bicycle helmet, it has to be said that the views of the experts were very divided in such a way that the cycling and bicycle organisations feel that there is no need for a bicycle helmet at all. One of the reasons is that, for example, urban bikes, like here in Helsinki, have become very widespread and do not have the helmet, and if the helmet had to come, the use of urban bikes would probably be reduced. Now that it is in the form of modern law, urban bikes are very popular and yellow wheels can be seen very much in that city. On the other hand, traffic safety and similar organisations believe that the bicycle helmet should be used more and more. That is why we came to the conclusion that this current system is good and correct and that the use of a bicycle helmet is recommended. And then, in schools, it usually stays there at the school’s invitations to learners to wear a bicycle helmet. Personally, I wish everyone would wear a bicycle helmet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u222	The 9th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 25 June. The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central office. Amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 10 a.m. on Thursday 21 June 2017. The debate will begin at the plenary session on Monday 25 June at 12 noon, with a rapid part-session, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, the President may, in the order he is considering, give the floor for one or two minutes. A detailed discussion will take place at the plenary session on Wednesday 27 June 2018 at 14 p.m. All amendments will be tabled in detail and then put to the vote. To the extent that no amendments to the draft amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u223	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u224	Madam President! Under the current law, tourism companies have been granted an exemption to offer transport as part of a package of tourist services without a licence for taxis. We have dealt with the first and second package of transport services in this Chamber during this parliamentary term. For the first time, we Social Democrats tabled more than one amendment to the taxi legislation and the second package, we objected to the wreck. It is worth recalling why we are in this situation that a week before the new legislation enters into force it is already being corrected and supplemented. As part of the first package, therefore, as the Committee on Transport and Communications as a whole, we in the Committee on Transport and Communications called for the second stage of the law to return to the question of whether there should be some kind of limit on the requirement of authorisation for activities in which the transport of persons is only a very small part of some other whole package of services. What happened then? In phase two, the return to the final government proposal did not come to an end, as it did not receive political approval in the government parties as a whole. Now we are in a situation where the Ministry has reacted as a matter of urgency since the contacts between tourism operators — good, but not good legislation. In the case of taxis, there is great concern about future legislation, which will come into force from the beginning of July. This week, when the Minister came up with a press release pointing out that tourism service companies as part of a service package will not need a taxi driver's driving licence in the future, I received more than one call. I do not think that I was the only Member of Parliament who received these communications, which were clearly already of the opinion that, in future, more can be done to amend the law even more in relation to, among other things, the removal of on-call obligations, the place of employment and so on. Many tourist service companies rely on thousands of seasonal workers, and their training as taxi drivers in relation to linguistic challenges alone is not, I would say, totally impossible and also costly. Today we have received this government proposal so that it has been read by us on 14.25 and now in the referral debate. Tomorrow, in committee, we will hear experts, and then immediately it is time for the preparatory debate — exceptional. With a large number of members of the Committee on Transport and Communications still here today, I also hope that, when this is exceptional, this will remain an exception.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u225	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister, to the ministry's officials, to colleagues and to all the parties involved for being able to act on this very fast schedule. According to my memory, no law has ever begun to be made and worked at such a fast pace, but when it was discovered that there was indeed an emergency in hand, it was decided to correct this situation. The only thing that hurts is what's doing. We have had a tremendous amount of time during this parliamentary term especially on the Committee on Transport and Communications on our ministry matters under way, very much, and surprisingly little has come up against situations that have been forced to do such repairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u228	Madam President! It is proposed to amend the Transport Services Act in such a way that when carrying out domestic or tourist services, the driver would not need a driver's licence. However, the condition is that the transport is part of the service package provided by the company and that the vehicle is under the control of the service company. The aim of this government proposal is to ensure the conditions for the tourism industry to operate. The Government's proposal facilitates the availability of labour and reduces regulatory costs and reduces the administrative burden on the company. Entrepreneurs in the tourism sector in particular have raised the need for this government's proposal and also hope that it will be implemented quickly. Representative Mr Taimela said in his own speech that this government proposal was brought here to the Chamber exceptionally quickly, and that is also quite true. Personally, I would like to thank the Minister for Transport and the Government for the fact that the government's proposal is indeed already here at the hearing. I personally hope that the Committee on Transport and Communications will also have a smooth handling of this matter and that the government's proposal will move forward quickly and bring the law into force. It will be able to improve the activities of tourism entrepreneurs in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u229	Madam President! This bill did indeed come quickly here in the Chamber, and then tomorrow the committee will begin to hear about this. Of course, in order to move the law forward, the committee is working quickly on the two sides of the saints. This is indeed an exception, as is the representative. The trout in that own speech said that on such a fast schedule such presentations will come. This is indeed such a change that a taxi driver does not need that license in a tourist service company like this when he carries out those own internal driving activities of the company, which perhaps belong to these software companies. I believe that in tomorrow's hearing this limitation will be made so that there will be no misunderstandings. After all, this is in the present state, even in today’s legal text, and the same article is written in the same form for these companies. Now, of course, this new legislation has only been widely stated that a taxi driver must have a driving licence and that companies have a licence and a company licence. It was the spirit of that other law when that law was being prepared. You didn't run away from anyone with any information or stuff. The important thing here is, of course, that this kind of company, which has a program service or home service, does not then transport Kela transport, social transport, social tar-joam transportation, because this is the borderline, that then again it driver's professional qualifications must be and then there must be all the other mental taxi related car features involved that come with these order system and payment policies and connections. This is now an important clarification of this proposal for tourism service companies, and tomorrow, in committee, this will begin to be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u230	Mr President! It is a great thing that we are now trying to solve this problem with such a fast timetable, and I believe that you in the committee will be able to do so. It is now a matter of transport being part of the whole range of services provided by the company. That is where Mrs Maijala raised the point of view of the big tourist company, but I would like to say, for example, that this small nature photography company, which actually works only two or three months a year, has to consider whether it really needs a licence for a taxi company. The great thing is that the driver doesn't need to. For example, how to order a taxi from where I live, I take the example of a message I received from the north: “Get the watch from the hotel03to the two-French and the exported tent for four hours. Then you're gonna go check on the rapids and the mouse owl we found yesterday. Half a day you'll take them on a snowmobile to Oulanka's eagle stand, and when you get there, you'll be looking for moose. After dinner you could drive for the northern lights.” So it is clear that this kind of service does not quite fit the idea of what it is, and these are indeed groups of two or three people who are transported by this nature tourism guide in its own car. Does this really need a taxi license then? Thank you for taking this and remedying the problem that has now come into the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u231	Mr President! I also criticise the fact that the government is correcting half-baked laws with urgent lobbying. When it is not yet known what will happen with this amendment of the taxi law, let us write a little more. In the past, the law has departed from a level playing field between traders. Now we're going to tamper. How do we take into account the safety of passengers? In other areas, summer workers are required to be qualified for their duties: cards, passports, tickets and notes. Do the government and the ministry not appreciate the profession of taxi driver when they feel that the job can be done completely in a vertical forest? I believe that the minimum requirement for this legislation is that the balance is not undermined by the current situation. What is now permitted with the exception of tourism services can continue to be the case. It is unacceptable to extend the scope of exploitation or the possibility of circumvention. This can't be a new taxidermy for the old man. The specific needs of tourism need to be carefully and carefully addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u232	Madam President! Indeed, the actual law on transport services provided that these tourist service companies would in future be required to obtain a licence and driver's licence, and it has now been established that this does not make sense in such a business. I think that this example, raised by Mrs Parviainen, was a very good illustration of the situation we are in. Now the Ministry may not have a series of corrections, but a correction bolt to correct this issue, and then, in committee, we will be dealing with this in a timely manner. When you meet that performance, you can see that there is talk of home and tourism services, but only tourism services are mentioned in the explanatory statement. It remains unclear what these home services are all about, and now that we have a large number of committee members here in the Chamber at the moment, I hope that tomorrow, under the chairmanship of the Vice-President, we will also be able to discuss this and find out what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u233	Madam President! The representative, Mr Kopra, raised the very issue that struck his own eye. We should not now involve the expansion sector. Let us keep this situation the same, because this means that some of the Kela rides would be connected to this if you look at home services as you do at home services. I understand that because home service companies providing local business services also have the need to carry people to pee tests or blood tests, home service companies can manage activities like taxi service companies. Let's not get this into this, let's just keep it in the tourism section. At least in committee, I will forcefully demand that this observation, which the Minister and the government have raised, be carried out as a requirement for tourism service companies. Let's fix it now, but let's not involve the rest of the sector. Let us just keep this on the tourism side and let us not involve something that we have no chance of hearing or reading if we open this package to a wider extent than just to travel. It is a tragedy that this applies — as far as I understand it — even to the companies of one person who package their services: I think it would be very good if Mrs Maijala or Parviainen were to discuss two kinds of scale between companies here, so there should be no conflict here. In line with the Government’s proposal, these are not exclusive to each other, but enable the company to sell the package. But that means that the company can produce a person from the airport to the service point and that package includes moving from one safari to another, from one tourist destination to another, when it is the whole package, but transport services personally can only be provided by the holder of the taxi permit. I think it is the right line that you should require that if you have gone to a hotel and want to go to another hotel, then that trip belongs to a taxi company, not to the entrepreneur of that tourist service, if it is a question of a person's personal need, of moving from one place to another. We need to narrow it down. These package tours must be an opportunity for a tourist service company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u234	Mr President! Attention has been paid here to the very important points. The essence of this whole legal issue is that there is currently very well-functioning legislation on domestic and tourist business activities in these matters, and neither has become practically complaints. So this has worked. I have been asking a lot of questions about this in both sectors over the last few days, and neither of them has caused any problems at the moment. And now this law, which we have before us in this debate, compared to the current situation — I can say it here for the taximen and for those who have feared this situation — makes it difficult for them to do so in any case. In other words, all home and tourism service companies must apply for a taxi permit. The company must apply for an authorisation for this activity and it is a chargeable permit. And all these cars, which are used in that transport business, must also have certain insurances which are different from passenger car insurance, and at the moment companies are negotiating with insurance companies on how big those insurances are and, as we know, taxi insurance is in a completely different category than passenger car insurance. Now it is very likely, as I have already heard, that these cars, which are currently used for both domestic and tourist business activities and which are possibly used to transport people, will also increase significantly the premiums, and it will have different accounting obligations more than in the past. In other words, I believe that these fears have already been taken into account here as a whole and that the situation will certainly even improve from the present. I just set an example for one big company. I have also talked to a great many small, even one person, tourist service companies, and they have exactly the same problems and the same situation, which means that it is a matter of urgency for what this is going to mean. So, right off the edge of companies from all over Finland — not only from Lapland, which was here most on display, but from Nuuksio’s entrepreneurs — has been in contact with me. Finally, I would like to say that the third stage of this law on transport services — that is to say, the traffic cycle, which was originally mentioned — will not be discussed until next winter. There is currently a consultation on it. So, in any case, we will still be dealing with this whole issue, and, among other things, clauses will change in the whole legislative package. So we're going to have big changes in this legal package, an incredibly big package.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u235	Madam President! When this motion begins in committee tomorrow, I hope that all these points will now be clarified in the course of the committee's consultation. As Mr Kopra and Mrs Myllykoski said in their own speeches, let us listen to the opinions of the experts and then, of course, try to reach the unanimous opinion so that this would quickly move forward from the present situation, and then, after the next 1.7th, there would be a fair space for all entrepreneurs and consumers. On that basis, at least not this evening but tomorrow I will listen to it and on that basis we will put forward a proposal which I hope will move forward unanimously and bring about this bill. But we really need to clarify these, where the border is and who are, because there are obligations and responsibilities that are equally born and have those rights. But let us listen in peace to the expert consultation first and then look at the final text.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u236	Mr President! Further clarification as to what the situation is and what it will be as from 1 July. — In other words, everyone understands that, under the current tax licence regulation, it could not be expected of such tourism companies that they would have taxi licences with fixed-term regulations, on-call obligations and on-call obligations. Everyone understands that, under the current regulation, such an exception is a necessity. Now, however, the law on taxis is changing. Authorisation regulation is essentially liberalised — is this excessive anymore so great? And is this need for deliverance as genuine as before, above all, whose deliverance and to what extent?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u237	Madam President! I am sure that we have heard a lot of weights and estimates before us, but I would say that I am going to go ahead of business here. As a left-wing MP, that means jobs. We are, as it were, on a common subject, but I would like to stress, in my own speech, that we are not now taking elements that are not related to tourism. Now, on the other hand, I must say to the Vice-President that, if we can get this done tomorrow, before the President from Brussels comes, this matter has already been dealt with. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u238	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that we in committee tomorrow, the same group that is now debating here, are going to have a debate. Tomorrow we will discuss this matter in greater detail. It is good that this issue of home service came up here as well. After all, the situation in this sector is the same as in the tourism sector, which is where it has been assumed that no substantial change is going to be made to the current situation, and where it is intended that life on the 1.7th should be continued. The same things apply to them as to the tourism sector, which is currently the subject of certain legislation, and now it is intended that the legislation should be extended in the same way as it is at present with regard to them. I would remind you that we still have a third stage in the law on transport services now in the process of working on it, and we can, if necessary, put certain things even further into the picture, and the most important thing is that we can keep these jobs, that we can keep these activities going, that no problems can be caused, that we can do this correction pattern, which we needed to do. Then, to Mr Mäkelä, whether it is unreasonable for everyone to have these taxi licenses completed: It is unreasonable because there are thousands of seasonal jobs at the moment, which is what this is all about, and now thousands of people should be carrying out this taxi card. These are tourism students, for example. These are their internships. Is this what you're supposed to be doing for a couple of months' work? And then, as I mentioned earlier, a large number of these assistants are foreigners, and they should then start studying Finnish or Swedish to be able to complete this card because the Finnish taxi card cannot be completed in any other language than Finnish or Swedish. This would cost an enormous amount of money, and we would simply no longer be able to employ young people on such a fast schedule. In other words, jobs are definitely ahead of us, but the responsibilities of entrepreneurs are really tough here, and there is no way of circumventing that responsibility. It is definitely in the interests of taxi drivers that we do not have a huge number of people who are so-called extra taxi drivers, but those who are trained as taxi drivers are also taxi drivers, and not every person who is involved in tourism program services is then a potential taxi driver.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u242	President! To conclude, I would like to comment on Mrs Majala’s speech — that sounds a little dramatic. Is it really the case that all these thousands of seasonal workers are now driving those cars? If so, is it really safe? Do they have the skills and qualifications to drive a car and drive people? And now, can these seasonal workers likewise make food without hygiene passports, engage in other activities without the necessary qualifications or permissions? What kind of wild west is there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-20-ps-70.u243	Mr President! The Wild West is certainly not there, but there are very closely monitored activities in all of them. When we talk about whether everyone is driving or not, it was today that I talked to an entrepreneur, and he said that it is a question of these seasonal workers moving cars, for example, a mile. So if they move a mile from that customer to that place, then there should be a taxi card for that mile if they are going to move short pieces. When there is a driving licence, you can move such short pieces. Most of these transfer tasks are really just like these small transfers, and certainly there are all the instructions there, and yes, entrepreneurs have so huge responsibilities at the moment there are and supervisions on the site that there can't take to begin any of these kind of accidents to do. When we talk about hygiene passports and all these things, they are legal matters, and at the moment we have so much control over health protection that these entrepreneurs are actually subject to very many controls. That is why entrepreneurs now had an enormous need to do so, that they do not want to break the law here either, even though they do not move more than a mile in the forest to the customer. When the law says that permit matters must be in order, they must act according to the law.
