ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u1	A letter on the Ecumenical Service of Independence Day has been sent to Parliament by the Celebrator, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u2	I ask the representatives to meet to attend the Cathedral in front of the National Library on Thursday, Independence Day, at 11.40 a.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 16/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 4 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u4	Madam President! I shall make a motion for amendment 1 in accordance with the objection. the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u5	Värderade Talman! Jag understöder, I agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u6	With the support of Veronica Rehn-Kive, Arja Juvonen has proposed that the entry into force rule be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u7	Madam President! I am submitting a motion for amendment of section 2 in accordance with the objection. the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u8	Värderade Talman! Jag understöder, I agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u9	With the support of Veronica Rehn-Kive, Arja Juvonen has proposed that the entry into force rule be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u10	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 14/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 4 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u11	Madam President! I propose that the annex to the Act be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u12	Mr President! I support Mr Modig's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u13	Madam President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u14	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u15	Silvia Modig, supported by Riitta Myller, has proposed that the annex to the Act be adopted in accordance with protest 2. With the support of Mr Immonen, Rami Lehto has proposed that the annex to the Act be adopted in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u16	The vote will take place first on Mr Modig's proposal against Mr Lehdo's proposal and then on the successful report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u17	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 28/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 4 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u18	Irade fru talman, Madam President! I propose that Article 11 of the draft law be read as follows: amend in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u19	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u20	Ms Löfström, supported by Ms Taimela, proposed that Article 11 shall be adopted in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u21	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 18/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 4 December 2018. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u22	Madam President! I would like to make an objection to the motion for a change in the section that state subsidies should not be cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u23	Madam President! I support Mr Paatero's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u24	Sirpa Paatero, supported by Matti Sem, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u25	Madam President! I'm making a motion, section 55. The ECB shall, as a matter of urgency,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u26	Madam President! I support Mr Paatero's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u27	Sirpa Paatero, supported by Matti Sem, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u28	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 4 December 2018. In the course of the debate, Mrs Salonen, supported by Jari Myllykoski, has tabled four motions for statements under protest 1. Emma Kari, supported by Krista Mikkonen, has suggested that 3. the draft law is rejected and made a statement in accordance with objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u29	The first decision is to adopt or reject the third draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u30	Mr President, I find myself in the rare situation of having to say that I have just voted incorrectly. We had to vote green, 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u31	Enter on the record.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u32	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. The vote will take place first on Emma Kar's draft statement against Mrs Salonen's 4th draft statement and then on the winning report. Mrs Salonen will then be put to the vote from 1 to 3. on the proposal for a statement separately against the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u33	The 8th item of the agenda is the topical debate on the will to defend the country. After about 5 minutes of speech by Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö, I give the chairman of the Committee on Defence to Ilkka Kanerva for 3 minutes, and then I give a two-minute reply to each representative of the parliamentary group. I will then give you V-button answers in the order I am considering. A maximum of 1 hour is set aside for the discussion. The first speaker is Minister Niinistö, five minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u35	Thank you. — The chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva, for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u36	Mr President! Thank you for your insightful idea. We Finns are fewer than one out of a thousand people in the world. Of course, we judge the world’s course on the basis of our own values, knowing that the majority of mankind has a different world of values from us. Unfortunately, most of the time it's more carnal than ours. However, thanks to a good foreign, security and defence policy, we are well placed to develop our distinctive life form and to contribute to positive international development. Finland's position is stable, safe, but not self-evident. In addition to intellectual and economic independence, we must also ensure our state independence and our defence capability, which is based on a strong will to defend the country. We are not prepared to defend our country because we want war, but because we will never go to war. The demonstrations of power policy in our neighbourhood, in Europe and beyond, reveal the world in which we live. The will to defend the country is not an old-fashioned rhetoric, but a central part of our country's resilience to crisis, resilience. In addition to traditional military threats, many forms of hybrid and cyber threats have emerged. In this world, our defence is based on credible, up-to-date military capabilities, the foundation of which is general military service. There is worrying movement among young people in the will to defend the country. There is no reason to use the panic button, but it makes sense to have an open debate on the reasons for the changes. If the same development is to continue, there is a place for more serious reflection. I am surprised at the results of the study, because I think that the feeling in the field is very different. I recently visited the Pori Brigade, where I developed an idea of highly motivated garrison material. Perhaps a new kind of teaching there has provided a good basis for motivation to serve as a garrison and a reserver. The Finnish will to defend the country is strong, even internationally among the highest in Europe. The idea of civic service is worth developing. Of course, this would not replace universal military service, but in any case women are a huge asset in the development of national defence and overall security. Our will to defend our country is built on the fact that young people also feel that it is worth defending our society. This will is based on human and economic prosperity, equality and trust in the wisdom of our foreign policy. We must build our country in such a way that we rely on the basis of defence to safeguard our own country and our own values.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u37	Thank you. — Now for the representative of each parliamentary group, the two-minute replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u38	Mr President! The current debate on the will to defend the country in Parliament is necessary and timely. Last week the Finnish Defence Information Planning Board published an annual study on Finnish attitudes to foreign and security policy and defence. The survey showed quite significant changes in Finnish views, which deserve attention. Finland still has a high will to defend the country, and trust in the management of defence policy is strong. Trust comes from a strong feeling that we're all in the same boat, you don't leave a guy behind. The survival of Finland and Finns is a common thing both in conditions of deep peace and in times of crisis. This year the events of 1918 have been remembered. The Year of Civil War has been the Year of Reconciliation, Unity and National Unity. The great line of Finland, which is over 100 years old, is the quest for unity. 100 years ago, Finland held the first municipal elections based on universal and equal voting rights. A functioning democracy is a prerequisite for security. Mr President! The foundation of Finland's defence consists of a general military duty, a strong will to defend the country, a pool-based, well-trained force, the defence of Finland as a whole, and close international cooperation. Finland therefore strengthens national defence capabilities and strengthens international defence cooperation. Finland’s overall security is based on extensive cooperation. The model is functional and suitable for Finland. It binds Finns to strengthen security from each citizen to the highest level in the country. Every Finn is a defender of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u39	Mr President! Finland is a country worthy of defence and the best country in the world with many indicators. According to a recent study by MTS, however, the will to defend the country has fallen. This, combined with other threats to our security environment, such as increased hybrid influence, is a worrying direction. In particular, the promotion and strengthening of the will of young people to defend the country must be a central objective of defence policy. Homes, families and schools have an important role to play. We must ensure that young people have enough information as to why Finland has been defended and why it is still worth defending. It is important that young people are also informed of the stories and understanding of the sacrifices made by the generations that have passed on to Finland. Our biggest day of independence creates an excellent framework for upholding values that create unity and bring Finns together. The transfer of silent information from one generation to the next is important. In addition to the strong will to defend the country, the cornerstones of Finnish defence are general military service and sufficient defence resources. There is also a need for extensive opportunities to participate in the various tasks of defence and overall security on a voluntary basis. It is necessary to reform the compulsory military system in order to make young age groups feel that the will to defend the country is also higher. We cannot give up the obligation to provide military service, but the system needs to be developed in a more equal way. In addition, the next government must examine the possibilities and conditions for civic service. Civil service would also make national defence participation available to those who do not perform military service. However, possible civil service would not replace general military service but, possibly, as a result of careful investigation and could legitimately supplement it. As has been said, Mr President, every Finn is a defender of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u40	Madam President! In an opinion poll published last week by the Finnish National Defence Planning Board, the will to defend Finland has fallen to its lowest since 1989. However, when discussing this matter, it should be borne in mind that, compared to any other European country, the will of our citizens to defend the country is still very high in Finland. The most worrying thing about the results of a recent study is the decline in the will to defend the country for the fourth year. The Socialist Group in Parliament calls for measures to strengthen the will to defend the country. We are proposing to look at the background of developments through scientific research in order to find and influence the real causes. The Social Democratic Parliament Group also stresses the need to bring the expertise of all Finns, including the women's age group, into our overall defence. Madam President! Here in Parliament, individual issues divide parties, government and opposition. However, matters of defence have been seen as common for decades. We must work to extend the spirit of unity in matters of national defence to other major issues in society. The will to defend the country is the cornerstone of Finland's credible defence solution, primarily because citizens feel that it is worth defending their country. It is not only a desire to defend the structures of our society, but also its values, ideals and human image. We must therefore strive to enable every citizen to feel that he is an important part of our society, the Finnish national home. Here, too, our decision-makers play an important role as an example in finding solutions to disagreements in agreement. And on the eve of Independence Day, I would like to end by thanking the generation of our wars, whose invaluable work will allow us to live in free Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u41	Mr President! According to a study commissioned by MTS, the will of Finnish defence has clearly fallen. The result is surprising because the situation in the Finnish security environment has not changed substantially since last year, even though conflicts continue in Ukraine, for example. The lowest will to defend the country was among young people and women. Less attention has been paid to the fact that the question of the will to defend the country was specifically about armed defence in the interpretation of research results. Significantly, the question of whether Finland should defend itself armedly in all situations came up with six percentage points less yes answers than in the previous year. In particular, the share of insecure people has increased in many measurement results. It may be that the responses reflect a view of the diversification of the nature of modern war, since at the same time the personal will to defend the country has remained at a high level of 84 per cent. A clear majority sees the current system of compulsory military service as the best option for Finland. For several years in a row, support for NATO membership is declining. The public is particularly concerned about climate change, terrorism, uncontrolled immigration and the launch of a debate on the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Yesterday's debate on voluntary national defence highlighted more awareness-raising work for young people and women. Mr President! According to the Blue Defence Programme, the entire population should be given the opportunity to participate in the defence of the country. In schools, for example, a theoretical secondary basic course in national defence would provide young people with basic knowledge of national defence. In addition, women should be given the opportunity to participate more widely in the various tasks of national defence. It's a matter of national defence. It's a matter for the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u42	Mr President! National defense is our basic rock. One wise man once said: Every country has an army. If it's not yours, it's someone else's. Those words have stuck in my mind, for he was very right. The Finnish will to defend the country has traditionally been very high, as well as the percentage of armed men carrying out military service. Seventy-four per cent of the total population still support universal military service, which is the only realistic alternative to defending the country as a whole. It is a cost-effective and above all superior system for us Finns. However, the trend for general military support is falling. According to the survey, the will to defend the country has also fallen down especially for persons under 25 years of age. Of course, even in that age group, the majority still understand the importance of the matter. Perhaps this small lapse is due to the fact that much of our young men and women no longer have direct contact with the veteran generation. Perhaps the sacrifices are no longer present. The knowledge of what has been sacrificed for our country must be passed on to posterity. This is therefore an important role for veteran and defence organisations, for example, who are doing valuable work. We Finns believe that smart Finnish youth will understand why we fight if we fight. Remember, good people, the words of infantry general Adolf Ehrnrooth: “The people who do not know their past will not rule the present, nor will they be prepared to build for the future.”
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u43	Mr President! The essence of the will to defend the country is that every Finn feels worthy of defending our country. We must ensure that everyone is involved, that everyone has access to training, access to the building of society and trusts to receive help if necessary. The will to defend the country has decreased when asked about the readiness to defend armedly under all circumstances. The drop was particularly high among persons under 25 years of age. At the same time, it should be noted that the will to defend the country has not been much lower when it was asked about willingness to take part in various tasks of defence according to its own abilities and skills: 84% would be ready to do so. In fact, we do not seem to be able to offer the right routes to take advantage of the Finnish people's high will to defend the country. New threats have come up alongside the traditional armed threat, but when it comes to defence, military service is usually the only thing that comes up. We do not have any other kind of education for our citizens from the point of view of broad security, even though the need and desire are obvious. We should therefore consider ways of expanding everyone's involvement in national defence. I very much regret that, on the other hand, the Minister of Defence has been consulted to rule out different groups by questioning the will of Finnish Swedes, dual citizens, civil servants or women to defend their country. Mr President! It is clear that compulsory military service needs to be updated to this day: in a more equal and selective direction. For only one sex, the compulsory system is foreign, especially for young people, for whom equality is a matter of course. The next government will therefore have to report on civil service for all. The key is to ensure that our society remains worthy of defence to everyone. And, as the survey shows, the greatest security threat is the progress of climate change, which we must fight together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u44	Mr President! The annual reviews of the National Defence Information Board are interesting to read. Although the size of the interviews is reasonably small, some of the questions extend up to the 60s. Long time series tell more than a single cross section. In the most recent survey, the debate was the one about defence. Two thirds of the respondents felt that Finns should defend the country armedly, even if the outcome was uncertain. The will to defend the country is down there, young people and women. Would it be because these groups, young people and women, are being heard less in society? If citizens feel that society is fair and equal and offers inclusion and positive prospects for the future, there is also the will to defend the country. A country can also be defended without a weapon and thus fulfil its constitutional obligations. The personal will to defend the country has not fallen much. It is still exceptionally high. More than 80% of respondents would be prepared to defend their country according to their personal abilities and skills. Finns want to defend their own country, not military alliances, that was also made clear in the review. The question may be asked whether the increasing presence of foreign troops and military equipment in Finland has a negative impact on the will to defend the country. General military service will remain the backbone of national defence, but that is not enough. It must be accompanied by the development of alternative forms of participation. There is a will to defend the country, but are there any proper policies? During the next parliamentary term, there must be an answer to these questions. Unity on the fundamental issues of the nation is a greater force than the number of war machines. Cohesion will increase with equal access to society for the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u45	Värderade fru talman, Madam President! Förra veckan publice planeringskommissionen för för försvarsinformation sinsenaste undersökning av försvarsviljan i Finland. Enligt den Mätningen anser nu 66 percent av befolkningen att Finland ska försvara sig med vapen om landet blir anfallet. Det är en märkbar minskning från föregående matning, och speciellt orolig är jag för att minskningen har variantt störst i gruppen unga personaler under 25 år. Det är som sagt det mest oroveckande. Det är viktigt att vi kan upprätthålla ett trovärdigt försvar nu och i framtiden, och för att det ska kunna lyckas måste försvarsviljan vara kohög, och därför ska den iär trenden nu tas på allvar trots att försvarsviljan internationalellt sett ännu är ög i Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u46	Mr President! The reception of Independence Day, hosted tomorrow by the President of the Republic, has again been called on by veterans of our wars. Among the veterans invited this year are ten veterans over 100 years old. Thanks to the contributions of these and other veterans, our country has had a long time of peace and prosperity. A long period of peace has certainly contributed to the fact that the horrors and crises of war seem distant to many Finns, especially young people. In the midst of prosperity, it is difficult to imagine how to act in a crisis situation, and young people look at the world differently from older generations: global challenges, such as climate change and the situation of refugees, appear to be more real problems than the armed defence of their own country in all situations. However, the reality around us is that Finns must also be ready for military threats and crises facing their own country. The conflict in the Azov Sea is a fresh reminder of the possibility of a military threat. The best guarantee and security for our independence and security is a strong will for defence and unity, and this must be maintained. The military service must continue to be developed and incentives created for young people performing it, and military service must not over-complicate or weaken access to, for example, study. Mr President! This debate and the forthcoming report on the will to defend the country mentioned by the Minister are indeed necessary and timely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u47	Mr President! Indeed, it is necessary to clarify in more detail why this decline in the will to defend the country is due to. At this point, we can only express our own conjecture. I have the impression that Finns are ready to defend independent, militarily non-aligned, neutral Finland. My own view is that the weakening of the will to defend the country may be linked to the very vague perception of our security policy stance in recent years. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, Finland has tried to interpret the Treaty of Lisbon in such a way as to oblige the Member States of the European Union to provide military assistance to other Member States, and in Finland legislation has been amended so that soldiers can also be sent abroad for combat tasks. Another factor that has clouded our position and our line is Finland's relationship with NATO. The Host Country Agreement is open to interpretation. In Sweden, Parliament dealt with a similar document and laid down its own conditions for this cooperation. On the other hand, Finland has been increasingly involved in military exercises in NATO and the leading NATO countries in a way that has created confusion about Finland's foreign and security policy. At a time when support for NATO membership has declined among the people, the Finnish Government has made a very strong effort to intensify its cooperation with NATO. In connection with the parliamentary elections and the formation of the next government, it is important to discuss the basic lines of Finnish foreign and security policy, the interpretations of the host country agreement, military exercises and participation in military crisis management.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u48	Thank you. We have now received comments from the groups, then Minister Niinistö, for 1 minute, and also to the chairman of the Committee on Defence for another 1 minute. Then we go to the debate and can make reservations already. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u49	Madam President! Thank you for your constructive contributions. Indeed, every Finn is a defender of the country, as was stated in several group contributions. Finland is a country worthy of defence and every Finnish has something to defend. As the Chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva, and I myself have pointed out, there is no room for reproach in the will of the military to defend the country. So we're doing something right, and thanks mainly to the Defence Forces. Of course, the same value base would apply to the entire age group, but we can try to influence it more through home and school. I mean, society as a whole, not just the Defence Forces. Civil service was mentioned a few times. However, like Mr Vikman, I would like to stress that the compulsory nature of general military service cannot be compromised, nor can it be an alternative to civic service. In the area of large-scale security, the participation of citizens can be increased, but it is not in any way a substitute for carrying out an armed service. The current system is good for defence. It provides cost-effectively enough young wartime troops. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Mustajärvi that there are no troops from foreign states or foreign states in Finland other than at the invitation of Finland, in exercises that improve the performance of Finland's defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u50	Then there is the chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva, for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u51	Mr President! As far as these numbers on the defence will are concerned, perhaps — perhaps, there is no evidence, but this is my view — it has contributed to the fact that, alongside the actual armed defence, people feel that there are many other challenges, threats and risks to our security arising from our operating environment. We know the hybrid and the cyber, right up to the climate change debate, and we are experiencing this in a way that requires more than an armed defence, of which we cannot afford a burnt penny of wood. I hope that we fully agree with this in Parliament. The second point is, of course, this debate on the future possibility of military service. There is nothing left for men to compromise on, but it may obscure what is at stake in the minds of some.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u52	Mr President! Finland’s security solutions have received broad acceptance and also high appreciation, and we have a great deal of confidence in our own defence. There are two pillars of this arrangement: one is the general strong will of the people to defend the country, and then, as has been said here, it is necessarily a matter of general military service. There is cause for concern about what the recent research results tell us. If the public will to defend the country falls, you may ask whether general military service remains as popular as it is now. If we did not have universal military service and the desire of young men — and often of young women today — to perform military service, our security status would be quite different from what it has been in recent years. We would be in a completely new situation where confidence in Finland's defence capacity could not be what it has been. That is why this sustainability of general military service must really be addressed both by Parliament and by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u53	Madam President! Finland is a good country and it is good to live here. We have many things that are not self-evident. They relate to education, health care, freedom to say their own opinion, and even a little while around the world, you can see that this is not the case everywhere. The backbone of national defence is the universal military service and the military forces of war based on the reserve, and that is what we must always hold onto. I was a little shy of that speech by the Greens, which referred to the fact that we should move on to some sort of selective military duty. There are dangerous examples of this from our neighbour in the West, Sweden, where attempts have now been made to restore military service without succeeding in doing what should be done. We need more information for young people. I believe that we should also increase national defence education in the curriculum. National defence organisations could play a major role here in cooperation with schools: Why is the country defended, what is the army in general, what are those exceptional circumstances and so on? Why is the country important to us?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u54	Then Congressman Krista Kiuru. You've got some news there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u55	Mr President! First of all, it is very important to say on this day that yes the will to defend the country is one of the most important inheritances that is passed on from father to son, generation to generation, from mother to daughter. Thus the veterans of our wars, who once stood on the border, were faced with the impossible. Many returned, many stayed. We have a lot of debt to pay in this country. In that respect, Parliament has played its part today, and also yesterday, in discussing these issues, but also in improving the rehabilitation of veterans. Today the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has taken decisions in this regard. We have also taken yesterday a legislative initiative by the Joint Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which all the groups have been involved in, and the good news is that it has long been expected that the disadvantage rate of the war ombudsmen could be reduced, and now I am pleased to tell you that, in Parliament, this bill will be dealt with unanimously as a matter of urgency and we will be reducing it to 10,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u56	Madam President! I am very pleased that this bill, which Mr Kiuru has just presented to us, is here on Independence Day, so that we can discuss it together and certainly get everyone's support. It is wonderful that here too we showed that Parliament is united in the affairs of war veterans and war ombudsmen. As we know, the war ovals are getting fewer and fewer. The average age of veterans is 93 years, and at the beginning of this year, there were only about 1,500 wartime invalids still alive. Veterans are a debt of honor for younger generations. Our legislative proposal now before us represents an essential benefit for the disabled people concerned and thus facilitates their position. I hope that we will all support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u57	Mr President! Maintaining a strong will to defend the country is in the interests of the nation as a whole, and it is indeed a pleasure to say on the eve of our father’s Independence Day that we have all parliamentary groups together taken a legislative initiative to amend the Military Injury Act. That joint initiative is a tribute to those who were willing to give everything in their power for the common fatherland. Indeed, that bill extends the right of the war-qualified to receive state-funded care if the aged war-validian is no longer able to cope at home due to weakened health. Our task is to safeguard the right of elderly war-qualified people to services and to care for their well-being. Mr President! Finland would not be such a good country without the sacrifices made by our war veterans and war choosers. That bill will be dealt with as a matter of urgency. I believe that it will receive the strong support of the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u58	Madam President! Minister, you said in that first speech: ‘How to learn how to defend Finland. “ Vice-President, you said that we, the decision-makers, were acting as an example. It seems to the naive that we have just voted on a military accident and that there is no retroactive compensation for the garrison. After all, from the beginning of the year, the law is about to enter into force to bring the garrison into the same state as those involved in crisis management. They have now received special additional insurance cover for accidents, injuries or deaths for two years, and now the Finnish garrison is in an unequal position compared to them until the end of this year. So until the end of the year, there is a situation that the conscripts do not have this additional insurance cover. So I ask: how valuable do we here regard the garrison, his health and his life? I think it is high time we told them that, in the name of equality, they should be placed on the same line. I now appeal to the whole Parliament: we took a legislative initiative together,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u59	Madam President! A joint legislative initiative by the parliamentary parties to reduce the disadvantage rate of the war-qualified to 10% is a fair and good solution. The blues are totally behind it. In the same breath, it must be said that the decision of the previous governments to abolish several of the garrisons was a mistake and was also a mistake from the point of view of maintaining the will to defend the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u62	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the thanks that the groups together managed this, the veterans’ affairs. Many speakers also referred to the important work that veterans have done and what we owe them, and for that I really saw on the eve of Independence Day a great thank you. But when we think about the future, I see for myself that we cannot only associate the will to defend the country with tradition and think that through it the will to defend the country will be added, that we will have a better connection with the warring generation, but above all that we will see to it that this society is equal and that everyone will feel that it is theirs. What has come up well in many speeches, we should also find ways of expanding defence, and that is why I believe that the idea of this civil service is worthy of clarification. But of course we also need to see to it that we have military service and that we can make both men and women, willing, best abilities available there, and so we can think that it can also be made a little more selective.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u63	Irade the Talman! At the practical level, the obligation of military service has changed considerably over the last decades in terms of leadership and practice. I believe that there is good reason to say that military service is not only an obligation but also a right and that very few of those who have gone through it regret the six months or 12 months spent there. In that sense too, it would be important to guarantee the entire age group this possibility that the whole age group would be included in the invitations and would have to wonder on its own whether or not to take part in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u64	Mr President! It's great to finally get the rehabilitation classes for the front veterans. Finland is a very good country for us Finns, as has been heard on many occasions, but our history includes both sorrow and joy. Defending our own beloved country and rebuilding it has united our people, but despite difficult times, Finns have been building their own country for 101 years and making joint decisions. The centenary year last year was celebrated with the theme Together. It provided an opportunity to understand the past, experience together and give direction to Finland's future development. It is now up to us and also the younger generation to continue this valuable work that previous generations have built up. It takes people to defend our country. Universal military service is a good system and the basis for everything, but, ladies and gentlemen, credible defence also includes weapons. There is a need to be realistic about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u65	Madam President! It is important for Parliament to hold this topical debate. The weakening of the will to defend the country is very worrying, and it is particularly sad in this way at the beginning of the Fourth of July. At the same time, however, this is a pretty good wake-up call for us to take things for granted. Many colleagues have already made a very good speech on this subject and, as has been said, this current trend cannot continue, but must be reversed. We must never forget our roots or the price of our independence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u66	Madam President! Finland, 101 years old, is worth defending. The high will to defend the country, together with a vast reserve, universal military service and military non-alignment, is our defence and thus our independence. President Niinistö has clearly stated that our most important line of defence goes between our ears. And where does this ultimately lie? The fact that as many Finns as possible feel that Finland is worth defending. And it relies on the fact that as many people as possible feel that they can be involved in society. This is precisely the basis of our independence and the integrity and strength of our nation. Especially this year, when we are celebrating the 1918 Memorial Year, it is good to remember that participation, the general and equal right to vote in municipal elections, was the decisive factor for it, such as Mauno. Koivisto has stated that the miracle of the Winter War took place before the Winter War. Thus, the more people can
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u67	Mr President! I believe that this is not a question of knowing the past, but of the present and of people's experience of inclusion and of the unity of society. If the will to defend the country is to be raised, it is therefore essential to take greater action against the exclusion of young people and to strengthen social equality. On the eve of Independence Day, I also think it is extremely important to stress that patriotism should not be a concept that excludes a large proportion of Finns from the background, mother tongue, religion or political opinions, but that patriotism should be something that everyone can feel and also define. I was pleased to note the research data released today that young people in particular consider Finland’s nature and national parks to be the most important patriotism. I also think that shows how this concept also lives with the development of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u68	Mr President! Here and at the national defence party, perhaps the most widely used sentence is that our country will be defended if or when it is worthy of defence and if it is fair to its citizens. That is why justice does not include forwarding, nor does it include slushing. We must build together such a Finland, which the person who lives here feels for both factual and emotional reasons as his own country, and therefore also wants to defend our own country. History awareness, to which reference has been made, does not determine the will to defend the country, but it is the basis of it. We must know our own history, including all the stages of our last wars. There should be no loss of history, never. And at the end of the day, we must all, as has been the case so far, in a wise way uphold consensus, political consensus, the main line of our defence, including universal military service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u69	Madam President! Yesterday I had the honour of attending the Helsinki Peacekeeper Christmas party. There are about 600 members. Most have been in war, or at least in a crisis area, and I can say that of course no one wants a war or a crisis from that group, but the will to defend the country is very hard, harder than perhaps a terrible many others. There, however, too, was the subject of a debate on this current small fall in the will to defend the country. One estimate was that it may be that a particular mainstream media, now said Yleisradio, Helsingin Sanomat and so on, has made the word “paternalism ” somewhat suspect, as if something were bad. I find it very strange, as is my friend of the Peacekeeper veteran. As for the will to defend the country, a Peacekeeper in his 80s said that the will to defend the country is like his love for the wife: it has been in the heart all along and remains there — and so will the will to defend the country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u70	Madam President! It is important and important to pay tribute to the war ombudsmen to reduce the disadvantage of the war ombudsmen to 10%. I believe that it is also important for them to defend our country today and in the future. This is why it is essential to identify how young people under 25 can see Finland and how they want to defend our country. The youth barometer of 2016 showed that young people's faith in the future of the country is growing, but trust in the future of the world and Finland's future as a country of residence has weakened. The Finnish welfare state receives strong support from young people. It is therefore essential that the unity and inclusion of society be strengthened. Cohesion also strengthens the willingness of young people to work for our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u71	Mr President! We MEPs will also be able to celebrate the 101th anniversary of Independence Day tomorrow, and I hope that I will see a veteran of my own municipality there if, for health reasons, he is able to be there. So thank you to those who have created such a safe land for us. These results also show that we have a sense of security in our country. And security is increased, for example, by cooperation with the Nordic countries and also by international interaction, which is very important. Then this is very interesting and a good thing when the Minister mentioned that a study will be carried out, which is what this proportion of people under the age of 35 is, and why. And I would also like to pay tribute to the fact that foreign policy and defence policy have been relatively well managed in our country, that I thank Minister Niinistö for that, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u73	Mr President! According to MTS, the will to defend the country among the Greens has collapsed. The Greens have also set themselves the goal of voluntary military service. An irresponsible proposal would mean reducing the size of the reserve to such a level that it would be impossible to defend the whole country. General military service will therefore continue to be needed. Although the threats are becoming more diverse, we must also be able to see that traditional military threats do not disappear. As I mentioned earlier, this understanding must also be built up in schools for our young people. With hard work and respect for each other, we have built Finland one of the best countries in the world, and I believe that we have all the prerequisites that everyone can continue to experience as a country worthy of defending Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u74	Madam President! That question of the will to defend the country and its calculation may have been interpreted somewhat unilaterally, as a number of colleagues have pointed out. In other words, there was a drop in participation in armed defence, but not in matters of overall security and defence, and most importantly, not in the case of military forces either. In the sense of trying to think about what should then be learned from this study, more and more people must certainly be given the opportunity to be involved in the defence of the country as a whole and especially in those groups which are currently not subject to military service. And, indeed, these two things must by no means be put into each other's options. This civic knowledge and civic skills relating to overall security should certainly be taught at primary and, in particular, at secondary level, so that we still have the opportunity to catch up almost the entire age group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u75	Madam President! We have a lot of good practices in this Parliament that you would think would improve the will to defend the country: this is the report procedure in which all the political groups are involved, it is being done together, and it is being done unanimously. But, of course, you have to ask yourself what kind of impact — when this has not been studied — this defence power reform took place during the last parliamentary term. In some provinces, the garrisons disappeared. Now, however, it is not clear how it has affected the will to defend the country in those provinces — when it is generally estimated that where the Defence Forces are visible, the will to defend the country is also at a high level. So this would have been a good thing for me to make clear. All in all, however, in this Chamber we can do much to increase the will to defend the country. I do not think that it is necessary, and perhaps not right, for us to start assessing which political groups have supported more and which is less, because this is a common issue. I believe that the starting point
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u76	Mr President! I support Mr Reijone's view that we in this Chamber would be able to think that the will to defend the country and the defence of the country is a common cause for all of us, not a value based on the results of a limited survey. Sustainable security will not be achieved if not everyone participates, and we want everyone to do so. That is why women and young people must also be involved in the defence of the country and in the construction of society as a whole in all areas. The military service itself is of great importance, especially for the young people’s will to defend the country, and that may also be reflected in the surveys. It is important that the ministry lives in time and also develops according to the values of young people. Military service is the first contact of a young person with national defense, many young people like this. If it seems outdated, discriminatory or contrary to its own values, it is likely to reduce its willingness to defend the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u77	Mr President! Yes, there are also worrying features of these international military exercises: In practice, the Americans invited themselves to the Rissala air battle exercise. The NATO officer, the leader of the Hankonieme invasion exercise, said that ‘we are here to show power’. A recent attempt was made to bring in the notorious B-52 bombers and stealth destroyers to Lapland in connection with military exercises. Both of them were coming to Lapland, but they didn't come, the company was tough. These have the effect of trying to undermine Finland's foreign and security policy line with this type of opening, to test it. And when citizens have a surprisingly good ability to read what is happening in politics, when they see these exercises with their own eyes, it certainly does not add to the public’s sense of security and can also influence the measured will to defend the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u78	Mr President! I will return to this conscription debate. It does matter what positions the parties and the parliamentary groups take on this military service as well, and it has been of great value that we have been able to build Finland together in this regard and give respect through universal military service, and also to those who have done it. It is a great sacrifice for those who go, and as we know, it is not necessary today. If these people, these young people, did not go out to do their military service, then we would be in a whole new situation after that. And that is why I would appeal to the parliamentarians and the parliamentary groups here too to keep this defence of universal military service to one man and one woman. If we do, we have performance and we also have faith in our defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u79	Madam President! I can only wholeheartedly endorse this speech by Mr Heinäluoma. The military service is the key cornerstone that we have in maintaining the defence of society, and the resulting reservist age, the rematching exercises it brings with it, the defence obligations it brings, all the community that goes with all this, that we need to keep strong. I also sign that we are also the examples, we are the guides here in Parliament when we raise these issues: what we want to cherish, what we want to maintain. The Veterans generation has been reduced. In that respect, tradition has decreased in families. The presence of the Defence Forces in half of Finland is considerably lower than it was 10 years ago. The role of defence organizations is growing. I would like to ask you, Minister, about the importance of defence organisations, about the resources you can give them. What can we do together to involve even more young people in this organizational activity for the benefit of our fatherland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u80	Mr President! The foundation of Finland’s internal security is civil society based on trust. The weakening of the will to defend the country is a worrying signal. On the other hand, it may indicate that the threat of war or the military crisis is seen as very distant. The good news is that the personal will to defend the country remains high and that the sense of security has improved compared to the previous study. The overall safety of society consists of the joint anticipation of risks, planning of preparedness, training and training for all actors in society. The obligation of military service is a part of this in its entirety. Each of us has an important role to play in maintaining and safeguarding overall security. In particular, we can influence the resilience of society, i.e. the resilience of the crisis. Today, the most likely threats do not necessarily come from outside, but from one Finn to another in an effort to create uncertainty and distance us from another. We decision-makers have a special responsibility that we do not act unconsciously or consciously in such a way that we weaken Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u81	Mr President! It is very important that this study was carried out. This debate has already shown that it acts as a kind of wake-up call for what is at stake. I would very much like to agree with what has been said here, that universal military service is the basic body of our defence and must be taken care of. Many times in this debate it is forgotten when we look at the attitude towards compulsory military service and consider that it is also a significant benefit for civilian missions and that this should also be taken into account. The central element of defence is the will to defend the country and it is very important that this will is also spoken of in homes and schools. And there is also a knowledge of history. Not that it alone is the answer, but I strongly agree with Mrs Kääriäinen that we have a problem with historylessness at the moment. And what is protected by national defense? Not just borders, but also our parliamentary system, our judicial system and our entire welfare society. There's a big question here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u82	The time allotted for this important debate has now been spent, so the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u83	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Let's open a conversation. Presentation, chairman of the committee, Mrs Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u84	Mr President! There is a legislative initiative which is a joint effort by all the groups in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and therefore by all the members and alternates of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The question is that, according to the proposal, we hope that those who have a disability rate of at least 10% in accordance with the Military Injury Act could be replaced by the treatment or maintenance provided in the institution and part-time care where the need for it is due to a non-replaced injury or illness. This is a big change, because today that disadvantage rate is at least 20%. At this stage, it is good to inform the representatives that the degree of disadvantage refers to the medically assessed disadvantage, that is, the percentage of disability that has been given to the individual at any given time, and this is called the disability rate in the current Military Injury Act. We therefore propose that this threshold be reduced from 20% to 10%, thus extending the number of invalids entitled to treatment in institutions financed by the Treasury. Many of you are asking if this is a big thing or a small thing. I feel like this is a big deal. Although we are moving the world in this house, we are not doing it through such joint initiatives and good cooperation between all the groups — not on a weekly basis, not necessarily even monthly, not to mention annually. In this regard, I think it is important that in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, where there is a great deal of work to be done, attention has been paid to this issue when we were discussing the rehabilitation of veterans and the improvement of the services involved. After all, that motion was already brought before the big Chamber in committee today. This will also help to improve the status of veterans, with attention being paid to improving the status of war-qualified even by lowering this disadvantage threshold. Mr President! Some estimates of the effects then: We currently have some 1500 war invalids, and here the situation is sad that time is doing its job. Any invalid who has been precisely at the edge of this current handicap limit may have suffered from an increase in his or her own suffering as a result of ageing, but there has been no real possibility of a better level of harm, i.e. better treatment. In this respect, those concerned by this issue are very important and very important. In terms of economic impact, we have estimated that this decision will increase the costs of the state economy by around EUR 10,4 to 12,3 million compared to the current situation, depending on how many of those who actually relocated have used municipal open services. However, it is worth noting that, according to a report received by the committee, the additional cost could be borne by the state budget from all the other resources available for the service of veterans and invalids, i.e. it would be possible to act in such a way as not to increase the need for appropriations, but to be able to operate within the frameworks of central government finances. It may be noted that, in this regard, the extension of the replacement of maintenance provided by the institution in accordance with the initiative is therefore a significant advantage for the disabled concerned and would thus facilitate their position. This is the long-term dream of the parliamentary groups. Yes, we have hoped and assumed and trusted that this debt of honour will also be paid. It is a question of humanity and justice, and I feel, in particular, after the debate on the defence of the country, that our debt to this generation of war-qualified people is incalculable, and this is therefore a reform which also guarantees care for those whose disability rate has been a disadvantage but whose ills have now increased as they age. In this respect, such an important decision in Parliament deserves urgent consideration, and we are already part of the government's proposal for a law on rehabilitation today, when the committee's own report on it was abused today, this is also what we have made clear that this will be dealt with as a matter of urgency. When there is only one week left for Christmas in committee work — although after the committee work Parliament will continue to do so — I assume that next week we will already have a long way to go on dealing with this matter. In this regard too, it can be said that the committee has taken up an important issue on a common front and has taken it to the end. This is how the will to defend the country still lives today, and the payment of the debt of honour, which is actually at stake here, is going to be better today. I would like to thank all the active representatives of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for having received such an important issue in this Chamber as a joint legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u85	Madam President! It was great that we were able to ignore this bill just now when we talked about the will to defend the country more widely. It's really great that right now, on the eve of Independence Day, we're at this bill. As President Kiuru said, this bill is shared by the entire Committee on Social Affairs and Health. It is a great thing that we were able to demonstrate, too, that veteran affairs and war-qualified issues are uniting all the parliamentary parties. We are therefore proposing an extension of the number of war-qualified candidates entitled to the allowance for maintenance provided in this initiative by reducing the disadvantage rate for compensation from 20% to 10%. As I have just mentioned, their average age is already high, 93 years. At the beginning of the year there were about 1,500 of them. I am sure we all agree that, at this bill, we are paying off a debt of honour extending over generations. In the present proposal, it represents an essential benefit for these disabled people and it will facilitate their position with the resources they have left. Mr President! In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the second issue of veterans. Dozens of Finnish municipalities do not spend all the money intended to provide services that support the home of veterans, but return them to the state. Yle reported on this recently, and, for example, the manager of the care services in one of the municipalities stated in the news that it was simply a lack of time: the use of veteran money has been seen as a secondary issue in the work rush. This should not be the case, and there is a need for improvement here. An excellent example of the case was the City of Kuopio, which spends more than EUR 10,000 per veteran. Kuopio is number one in Finland. The second municipality in northern Savo, Kavi, will be well over EUR 9000 in second place. In Kuopio, a special service director has been hired to look for hidden care needs for veterans. The municipalities should now systematically identify the surviving veterans and find out what kind of help and support they need. It is a matter of urgency, the ranks of veterans are decreasing at the same pace as those of the war ovals. Today we also stated that in less than a year's time the veterans will receive the same home and open services as the war ovals. Madam President! I am used to thinking that everyone on the front got some kind of injury or trauma, others got more visible, others perhaps less visible from the outside, and that is why it is really important that we think more and more about the veterans of our wars, the women and men on the front of our fronts, and also those who made a big sacrifice for our country and our independence as a whole, and that we could also direct public services, interests, to them without being divided on the basis of some visible criteria. However, the debt of honour is also in their direction in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u86	Madam President! It is very easy to agree with what Mr Heikkinen and Mr Kiuru have just said. It really is, could you say, such a touching feeling about this matter when we celebrate Finland's Independence Day tomorrow? This reduction in the disadvantage rate of the war ombudsmen to 10% is also a tribute to the war ombudsmen, to what they have done during the war. Mr President! This bill proposes to amend Article 6 of the Military Injury Act. The purpose of the bill is to extend the number of war-qualified candidates eligible for the reimbursement of institutional care by reducing the disadvantage rate for periodic and permanent institutional care from 20% to 10%. The initiative proposes to amend the Military Injury Act so that war-affected candidates with a handicap of between 10 and 15 % following the wars of 1939 and 1945 can be replaced by maintenance or part-time maintenance provided at the facility, even if its need is due to a non-replaced injury or illness. The current legislation allows only the periodic or long-term treatment of 20-100 % of the disadvantage rate in the frat or other treatment institutions approved by the State Treasury. There will now be improvements in this respect. The proposed reform would lead to an increase in the number of war-qualified persons covered by the institutionalisation to be replaced. Most of the invalids who would go into institutional care have already been covered by municipal open services or housing services to be reimbursed under the Finnish Military Injury Act. Similarly, the transition to institutional care for these highly qualified war workers would save on the costs of community care, rehabilitation and housing. In addition, the change would reduce the housing costs of pensioners, in particular as regards enhanced service housing. In that respect, this is also economically well-founded. At the beginning of 2019, there will be some 1,500 war invalids alive. An estimate of 1150 has been entered in the State budget, but this figure, based solely on the year of birth of the invalid, does not include war-qualified persons born in 1926 and younger than them, who have been injured, for example, during bombings or partisan attacks, or who have remained prisoners of war in border villages. The disadvantage rate of between 10% and 15% of the surviving war choosers is about 40%, which means that there are currently just over 600 of them. In the 1980s, a network of approximately 1,700 places of care was built for the institutional care and rehabilitation of the war invalids in the hospital and fraternal homes of the war invalids with funding from the state and the Slot Machine Association. With the decline in the number of war candidates, the customer circle of these more than 20 nursing homes has expanded to the rehabilitation of veterans and the rest of the population and to the services of other elderly people. However, there are currently empty places in many bros. For this reason, the war ombudsmen have also taken a strong position that more war ombudsmen would also have access to these treatment units. The current Military Injury Act provides for a short period of two weeks of rehabilitation per year for the 10-15% war-qualified in the brother homes of the war-qualified but not for the periodic or long-term care needed in the event of deterioration. There will now be changes in that respect. Mr President! In the course of the committee debate, we were very pleased that the Treasury gave strong support to our proposal. They note, inter alia, that the delegation of the Finnish Veterans Associations has stated that, when examining the forecasts of the costs of institutional care in 2018, it would appear likely that the reduction of the disadvantage rate would not require a change in the amount of the budget. The change in the disadvantage rate for institutional care does not require any changes in the information system at the Treasury. A reduction in the disadvantage rate would result in some additional work due to the increase in applications and invoices. On the other hand, customers' applications to the Treasury for an increase in the disadvantage rate would be reduced. In view of the number and removal of war crimes, there would not be a significant need for resources for the Treasury. From the point of view of the tasks of the Treasury, there is no obstacle to a rapid change, and they give strong support to our proposal. As far as this proposal is concerned, could I say that it is a good thing that the various bodies of the Ministry and the Treasury support this. I hope that this will indeed be dealt with quickly and quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u87	Mr President! Indeed, the delegation of the Veterans' Unions is to be commended for speeding up this initiative. And we have to thank the veterans of Finland for an independent country. Indeed, I am pleased that on the eve of Independence Day we can say that yesterday, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, all the parliamentary groups cooperated in this legislative initiative to amend the Military Injury Act. Indeed, this joint initiative is a token of respect for those who were willing to give all they could for the common fatherland. This initiative will indeed improve the position of the war-qualified, and we will indeed extend the right of the war-qualified to access the care paid for by the State Treasury. This is very important because this handicap, this disability rate, has been perceived as unfair. And when the veterans, the war veterans get older, they need more help and support. This is above all a question of justice. With this initiative, we will do what we have to do. Our task is to safeguard the right of the elderly to the services they need and to care for their well-being. This initiative is indeed to be dealt with in committee as a matter of urgency, and I believe that this initiative will receive the unanimous support of the whole Parliament. I would like to say that it is important that we develop Finnish welfare services and also the services of our veterans in such a way that the services are exactly what veterans need. Parliament has been proactive in allowing veterans to choose for themselves and in providing services to be taken home alongside institutional rehabilitation. And now, in Parliament, we have been working proactively to ensure that the war veterans and the war veterans are on an equal footing. It is very important that today we are in this situation when we see how the veterans of our wars and the MPs of war age. Mr President! When the time runs out, I will say that, with this debate, we also want to send a strong message to the MPs and veterans that we respect their work and that we want to take care of the services they need.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u88	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, I would like to express my thanks to all those who have defended Finland, the veterans that still exist among us, and I wish everyone a very happy Independence Day and the prospect of Christmas on December 5. Madam President! This bill, drawn up and signed jointly by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, is a very important issue. It's great that we've been able to do that, and it's great that we can introduce it and take it forward. This initiative proposes to amend the Military Injury Act so that a injured or injured person with a disability rate of at least 10% under the Military Injury Act can be replaced by maintenance or part-time maintenance provided by the institution, including care where its need arises from a non-replaced injury or illness. In plain language, this bill makes it possible for an increasing number of veterans, disabled, injured to be covered by state-funded care and assistance and services. That's what we're looking for with the downgrading of the downgrade. This is a very important issue. We look back to history. I myself have been a nurse in my background and treated a huge, huge number of veterans when I graduated as a young nurse and heard the stories, heard the stories of the lotteries, cared for people who were disabled, lost limbs, feet. There, when we were just talking about this weakening of the will to defend the country, surely it is precisely the case that there is no longer the touch surface of what has once been, the kind of problems that have been experienced, the kind of injuries, blindness, deafness, all that war has brought, mental illness and pain that has not been mentioned. It may not have been possible to say out loud in that world that when it is bad to be, it is because you were there on the front, and what people saw and experienced there. It's been cruel. It's terrible. And when we ask today where our will to defend our country is, perhaps this is the case that young people no longer want to go to new wars, they want to look for alternatives, find solutions to the fact that there are no armed conflicts, there is no war. But as has been shown here in the debate, there is a need for weapons, and this contradiction seems so incredible that I do understand a young person who says that ‘I can’t change the way this world is going to have an effect rather than going to war’. Of course, military service is a very important issue, and it is also a civil duty that was mentioned here, as well as civil service, possibly. Madam President! The future must also be looked at, and I hope that we will also respect and respect these conscripts and conscripts today, both voluntary women who go there, and civilian servants who do their statutory service and duties in that way. We were just discussing the military accident and service sickness law, which will come into force from the beginning of next year. That law finally brings the garrisons to the same line as the Peacekeepers, who, two years ago, were granted the right to additional compensation. It took us two years to appreciate the garrison as well, so that he also has that insurance cover. Among other things, a year ago we had a very shocking train accident, in which three conscripts died, their lives are quite worthless. I've been contacted by the father of one of the dead garrisons. He has told me that I am allowed to tell you about these feelings here: ‘I feel that society has something against us when there is no life insurance, there is no compensation,and there is no compensation by the end of the year. I therefore hope that everyone will take care of each other and that there will be no damage to the garrison, no injuries during the rest of this year, because the Act on Insurance Protection, Supplementary Insurance, will only come into force at the beginning of next year.” At the same time, I appeal to Parliament and to the Committee on Finance, which decides on these extra resources, so to speak, what Parliament has to do with these so-called Christmas gifts — I use the expression 'because it is clear' — that they will take the decision to pay these allowances in another way if the law cannot be enforced retroactively: do everything to ensure that the deceased receive compensation and the injured, the disabled receive compensation, up to a maximum of EUR 21000. I see that this is the future, but history is what has happened. And we are all born here at the time, that we have loved ones and grandfathers and grandmas who have experienced the war, lotts. That is why this initiative, which has been taken jointly by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, is very important. And I also hope that these will not just remain words on paper or wishes. That's where the nursing services need to be provided with helpful hands. There must be staff, staff, those who work with their hearts. It's a lot of rehabilitation, and it's this kind of nursing and helping. Very peaceful and happy Independence Day for all of you! And thank you for still sitting here because the Chamber is almost empty, even though we are talking about such an extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u89	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for this legislative initiative, which we have before us, which the committee unanimously has brought with it through the cooperation of all the groups. There are 15,000 veterans left, and the number is decreasing every day. It is extremely important that we ensure that they all receive adequate services, support and assistance for the last meteors of their lives. This bill is now one way of increasing these services, as the number of war-qualified people is also growing, who are entitled to compensation for maintenance provided by the institution. On the other hand, we know that the parliamentary groups also took a legislative initiative together to ensure that front veterans are provided with the same home and open services as the war ombudsmen. This is a very important issue, and it is great that we are finally getting these things right. However, as Mr Heikkinen has pointed out, there are unfortunately very big differences between municipalities as to the number of services that veterans receive there, home services and rehabilitation services to be taken home. Unfortunately, many municipalities have even returned this money, which they would have at their disposal to secure these services. Indeed, as Mr Heikkinen said, Kuopio has been extremely exemplary here, and this is great. Unfortunately, in my own region of North Karelia, where: Your sote handles these services, we were at the end of this comparison. But now I have a promise from your war that this matter will be put in order and that these funds will be spent and that the veterans in our region will receive the necessary home services and rehabilitation services. What is also important is that the services that we provide are of the kind that these people need, and we also take into account the changes that are taking place in the condition of the veterans as quickly and as quickly as possible. Since we all know that these are very elderly people, there may be a need to receive additional services or to increase rehabilitation rates quite quickly. There should be such a mechanism so that this can be done smoothly and quickly, so that we do not commit ourselves to plans for too long, but that they can be modified flexibly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u90	Madam President! This amendment of Article 6 of the Military Injury Act to the joint decision and will of the parties is certainly one of the best decisions of this parliamentary term, if not the best. Parliament's full support for this project is certainly behind it, and I believe, as the chairman and vice-president of the committee confirmed in their speeches, that the matter will be taken forward with great determination and speed. Thank you to all those who have made this decision and the proposal for an excellent piece of work. Veteran time, however, is changing, as we all know. There are about 15,000 Veterans left among us, and these honourable citizens certainly deserve the best care possible for the rest of their lives, and this bill of law specifically guarantees that. And all we have to do now is to ensure that the money is sufficient for that work, and the second is what Mr Mikkonen has just mentioned, that this work in the municipalities for the veterans of our wars and also for their widows and orphans — this is something that must always be remembered in this context — is done well so that everyone gets access to their services well and does not feel forgotten. Services to be taken home are important, institutional rehabilitation is important, but also that other veteran work, because there is also a huge change taking place there. We are moving into the traditional era in Finland: The representatives of veteran organizations, whose average age is approaching 95 years, are, for understandable reasons, turning aside, and now it is up to younger generations to take forward the veteran tradition, the legacy with which this country was built. And the goal is that 2020 in this country will be a tradition organization formed jointly by veteran organisations, a network that will take care of this work in each province. Of course, veterans are always involved in whatever is left there, but the younger generation has taken responsibility for the operation and is organized according to this variety of traditional associations at municipal level, and then the district level is set up such a district’s own committee — or whatever name it works in the area, so that’s the name that goes on to foster this veteran tradition. So we are also living in a very historic time in this regard. And one can say that tomorrow, at the reception of Independence Day by the President of the Republic, when the veterans are the first to enter the house as a guest group, it is a great honour for the generation that has built and, above all, defended the weapon in hand that Finland has maintained its independence, but at the same time it has also preserved as a nation the right to be among other nations. It has preserved the social system, the judiciary and many other wonderful things, such as the representative. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And on that matter of defence, Mr President, do you allow me to say that I think that the debate on the matter of defence was quite good, very high-quality and high-quality, but I would have liked to see a little more emphasis on one issue which, in my opinion, was too little attention: regional defence. The Defence Forces defend this country, and the veterans in its own day showed that the country was defended on every square metre from that northern Finland to the very tip of Hankonieme. The whole country was worth defending during those wars, and it must be defensible and worthy of defending in the coming decades. That is what Finland and our parliamentarians must ensure that this country and veterans are also taken care of and then, in the coming decades, that the defence of this country is always up-to-date and, above all, defence is made throughout this country and, if necessary, the country is defended if such a situation arises. Madam President! For my part, thank you once again for the valuable work and decision of the committees and the Members of Parliament who have tabled this motion, and for my part, I wish the veterans and all colleagues and all Finns a happy Independence Day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u91	Mr President! I think that today's debate is a good indication that we have a strong signal that there is a large army of war veterans and war ovalists in this Parliament, and this defence force is a united team of all the parliamentary parties and all the committee forces. This is also demonstrated by the common will of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when we saw that this disadvantage is something that should now be put on the table and, in fact, it would be an urgent measure, and it could possibly still be done within the framework of the budgetary framework by organising these matters, and the committee found such a strong group which felt that it was now simply necessary to put this disadvantage right. I think it is good to say that this Christmas is a Christmas for many hundred war veterans, but also for war veterans, because today the committee finalised its report on how the services of veterans in Finland will be improved. In that regard, two good things will be done under the Fourth of July: Of these, the very important human issue is this calculation of the disadvantage rate, which has been waiting for its time, and now that debt is being paid. But it is equally important next week that the hall deals with this whole of rehabilitation, which brings security and assistance to an increasing number of veterans and thereby improves the position of all veterans. In this regard, it is good to remain silent until Independence Day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u92	Madam President! A few more words about the services that I have mentioned in my previous speech in support of the home of the veterans, which fortunately also gave rise to further discussion. That amount has been 45 million this year and is distributed to municipalities in proportion to the number of veterans living in the municipality. Then what can you do with it in the municipalities? The municipality can support catering services for veterans, provide lunch vouchers, provide home help, home nursing. It can be used to do yard work, such as snow creation or lawn surgery. It can be used to do small improvements to support living at home: building ramps, railings, removing thresholds. It can also support Veterans' services, use them for recreational services. It can support extra family carers' freedom and provide support for home rehabilitation. Madam President! What I wanted to raise this issue to the debate was precisely that this is not such a flat-rate appropriation, but that this will be assessed for each veteran according to the individual needs of his veteran. The latest news coverage by Yle showed the huge differences in how municipalities use this money that is available to every single municipality, every single veteran according to their needs. Kuopio was number one in that news service for more than 10,500 euros, while the second one was the Savon municipality, Kaavi 9,500 euros. Mr President! Here I would like to encourage all municipalities to make this list number one for veterans in the coming year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u93	Mr President! I also agree with the fact that the municipalities are now the ones that will be the next to start. After these big decisions on what is being done in Parliament, the next step must be to ensure that each municipality goes through its own so-called territories. Let us see that the municipalities now make the next move to make these veterans' affairs better. It is also a question of whether Finnish municipalities offer and offer these services equally and whether they find all veterans who are in need of the services. Attention should be paid to this as a whole in the future, and next year we will return to further development in these areas of veterans and invalids. The following wards are municipal blocks, and they should be started immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u94	Madam President! From that statement by Krista Kiuru, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that municipal elections must start, I can tell you that in the municipality of Ilomants a long time ago — and in the whole province of North Karelia and probably in many other regions — these talks have been started. In my municipality of Ilomants, this is done in the way that we have a committee for the negotiation of veteran affairs. I am a co-chairman and we have organised our activities in such a way that, of course, there are representatives of veteran organisations in that council, then there are representatives of reservist organisations, there is representation of the municipality and then there is representation of the social welfare and health care services of Siu in the province. All these actors together will make sure that when any defect comes to the attention of an operator, a meeting is convened and that, for example, social and health services for veterans are arranged without delay. There were some problems with transport services, for example, and then There were negotiations with you and a solution was reached that the veteran would receive the transport services he needed without delay, without unnecessary competitive tension, which often caused the veteran, for example, not to get a ride to a party — a veteran party or a Christmas party or a friend’s birthday party or a veteran’s colleague’s party. There was a close consultation with your soldiers and a solution was found that guaranteed every veteran in the homeland a quick ride service as desired by the veteran himself, with no delay in sight. One phone call is enough, and it's on the line. That's how it's supposed to work. In other words, the challenge posed by the President, Krista Kiuru, that municipal elections should start: They have been started, and I claim that they already play well at 95% in this country. But the five percent must be arranged in such a way that all services are up-to-date and very quickly available, because the services of honour citizens — veterans of our wars, orphans of war and widows of veterans who have already died — will be of the utmost importance to Finland as a whole. It's a tribute to the work that a generation of veterans did.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u95	Madam President! The reason why it is so important to spend money on the services that support the home of veterans — when we always talk about many things, both here in Parliament and in the government and as decision-makers, and we have to fight and think about what the common funds are sufficient for — is that in this matter of veterans and precisely in these services, which I am talking about and which the state fully replaces and which are already distributed to municipalities according to the number of veterans living in municipalities, it seems very strange that there are so many municipalities that may return a large part of that money back to the Treasury because it has not been used. I do not particularly want to raise any municipalities to the beak of a stick, but a good example is that the municipality of Pello returned as much as EUR 21424 from the EUR 28,000 it received last year to the state — that is, almost the majority of the money that could have been spent on domestic services for veterans and, as I have just described, these different forms of living at home and life for veterans. That is why I would like to send a very strong message to the municipalities that you can do just as you have done in Kuopio: There is a separate person who will find out who has a veteran mark. They are sought out, their hidden needs are mapped out, and they are given the help that is possible and to which the state grants the money. It is indeed wrong that this money that we have allocated to veterans should be returned to such a large extent. Let's use them while there's still a chance, while we still have veterans among us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u96	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u97	Madam President! I present to Parliament a proposal to combine the sources of income of the communities. This is something we have been talking about for years. This has been wanted for years in the entrepreneurial field. At the beginning of the 21st century, the removal of income sources was supported, among other things, by a working group on the development of income tax in 2002, and also by an expert group on business taxation in 13. In other words, when we have this current distribution of income, it creates situations in which taxable income from another source of income is generated at the same time as the result of another source of income is loss-making. The tax burden will then be higher than it should have calculated on the basis of its total income. Because of these types of problems and the fact that, if problems can be overcome, this proposal has been made to support entrepreneurship and improve its conditions. This was launched in 2016 in line with the line agreed in the budget negotiations and a long work of officials and experts has been carried out in preparation. According to the Government’s proposal, only one income is usually calculated for the entity as income from two separate sources of income, taxable income from the source of business income. Community taxation is governed by the Business Tax Act. Agriculture continues to be a separate source of income. This change concerns the most common forms of entity, such as limited liability companies, cooperatives and savings banks. This amendment does not apply to certain entities whose actual purpose is other than business or other economic activities. For example, taxation of housing companies, public interest entities and general government would be subject to the current Income Tax Act. Mr President! I am particularly pleased with this proposal. As I pointed out at the outset, this has long been hoped for in the entrepreneurial field. It has been an important objective for me to achieve this, and it will still be a good time during this parliamentary term to seal it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u98	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the introduction, especially after a rather long journey abroad. This is a welcome reform for everyone, and it will simplify business activity and its taxation as well. After all, the aim was to eliminate the distribution of income from the outset, or as such it has been mentioned for several years, but, strictly speaking, all sources of income will remain. In this respect, the simplification of taxation has not been entirely successful. In some cases, taxation became even more complex, but the distribution of income for the limited liability company and for some other entities is changed, with the result being taxed in full in the EVL income source more often than before. This is particularly important in so far as the previous reduction in interest rates, which has also been corrected here, which was only partially successful, excluded real estate investment only because it was taxed in accordance with the TVL and not the EVL, which meant that Finnish shopping centres were cash machines for foreign real estate investors. Here, too, the improvement is obvious. The key changes in this Government proposal relate to portfolio investment and real estate investment activities. The committee will certainly continue to look carefully at the fact that, although it is absolutely justified that profits and losses in business can be balanced against each other, there is a possibility of tax planning, whereby investment assets are transferred from private property to the name of a limited liability company. In some cases, this could be limited in line with the Swedish model so as not to reduce sales losses when assets are sold to related parties or related parties. This is something that the committee is rightly looking into. Real estate investment activities also have such an incentive for tax planning if private property is transferred to the name of a limited company. But with these small reservations, this is something to be welcomed, although of course, when this is a huge task for the Tax Administration, one might ask why the source of income from agriculture and the private companies would not have come along with this reform with the same effort. On the other hand, the exclusion of public interest entities is justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u99	Mr President! Indeed, this is a welcome change in Community taxation. The current distribution of income from the Communities is an exception at international level, and we are in a particular position in which taxation is, to the extent that profits are also higher than in competing countries. This does not apply to non-entities, i.e. limited liability companies and similar entities, which are generally subject to corporate taxation, and therefore not to other taxable business activities. This is one of the difficulties that is yet to be overcome when a new type of property, which is an asset of a company that is not directly related to the company's business, was brought here. Its tax treatment in practice, as it does not accept depreciation in practice, will always be subject to tax, but sales losses will not be, i.e. it will remain such a unilaterality. But all in all, this is a good reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u100	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u101	Madam President! If I was delighted with what I just said as a major change of direction for corporate taxation, then I might say that I am even more pleased about this because of this content, because it is the artists who produce the content that are involved, their prerequisites for acting like an entrepreneur. The Government's proposal proposes that performing artists and programme agencies should be able to apply voluntarily for a taxable income in respect of performance fees and allowances for the sale of presentations to organisers. Sales would be taxed at a reduced rate of 10 %. The cultural and entertainment sector as a whole, and the activities of performing artists as part of it, have become more professional in recent years, and business is increasingly taking place. The fact that we create this opportunity to voluntarily apply for VAT is indeed creating a basis for entrepreneurship. We believe that this will support the growth and development of the creative sector and will also enable us to support other entrepreneurship related to the cultural sector, such as the business and development of technology, logistics and services of this type. I see that this proposal will continue to work well for entrepreneurship and growth in the creative sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u102	Mr President! The promotion of entrepreneurship in the creative sectors and the promotion of export income are certainly something that we all wish to see and promote. It is nice to give the government a whole lot of unreserved commendation for a change, and I consider this to be a very successful and important change for the small group of artists who are essential to our culture. It has been the hope of many years of work that this situation, which simplifies procedures, saves a great deal of effort and is likely to lead to more revenue being made available to performing artists. In addition to supporting the business development of creative industries, such solutions and, for example, the determined programmes of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, there is a significant structural change that has taken place in the creation of incomes for performing artists. In other words, when the sale of phonograms has collapsed in practice, then most of the revenue comes from the performances themselves, from events and perhaps from other ancillary sales related to it, which now comes entirely logically to this same 10% reduced rate of VAT, in which entertainment and cultural services are otherwise present. For once, I believe that the tax loss estimate proposed in the government proposal is probably wrong and it is quite possible that the government will receive more tax revenue from this change in hand. Of course, the tax loss estimate was also low at EUR 10 million, but the fact that we have an increasingly successful field of performing artists, programme agencies and the whole music business and performance business brings a whole new vitality to Finnish culture and business and also diversifys the structure of production, services and our exports. So, for a change, it is nice to think that moving this proposal forward is a common interest for all, and we also regard this chosen line as a success.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u103	Madam President! Yes, Mr Harakka, I would urge, could more often be satisfied with the government's tax policy, which, in the big picture, is stable and predictable. You don't get to do it the way you see a mission in some shows. And under this great image, even smaller things can be handled, as is the case with the performing artist, which was, therefore, the preliminary discussion in the tax section. We heard experts, and the feedback was positive. What, then, is the performing artist? Could Minister Orpo, when he retires and gives good speeches, be an artist and be subject to VAT? I don't know what to say. Of course, we have to narrow it down. This VAT rate is 10 here. We have that 14% tax rate. I myself have wondered whether we should combine these rates with 12%. Then, for example, the VAT on food could be calculated, which would be a good thing. I would ask Minister Orpo: have you considered such creative solutions?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u104	Mr President! Experts are of the opinion that this is a welcome reform. The artist here can choose whether or not the business is exempt from VAT, in which case, of course, purchases and purchases are subject to VAT and cannot be deducted from anything, or then he can choose to apply for VAT, in which case he will receive a VAT credit for the 10% VAT paid for the purchase. I believe that performing artists do not acquire assets that could result from the exploitation of VAT that are not related to their actual activities. But there may be more colorful steps in the beginning, and that is why it is good to listen at the beginning.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u105	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u106	Madam President! In the Government proposal, two new laws are proposed, the Act on Growth Services and the Act on the Processing of Customer Information in Growth Services. The Act on the Customer Information System for Business Services would be repealed. In addition, a technical amendment to the Safety Clearance Act would be introduced. The proposal is closely linked to the regional reform. The proposal is part of a package of Government proposals to create a growth service system based on e-services and information management based on the national and regional services of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy for job seekers, employers and businesses. The Finnish Growth Service Agency would be responsible for producing the national tools of employment and economic policy for the joint use of a joint municipal group of central government, regions and Uusimaa’s growth services. Common tools coordinate for the customer the actions of service providers and producers and the customer service process in a multi-producer model where the customer's service package can be built from a part produced by many different service providers. Digital and electronic services, information systems and platforms produced by the Finnish Growth Service Agency are at the heart of employment and industrial policy and its knowledge management. National information systems provide information on the operating environment of employment and industry policies, such as labour mobility, availability and competence, as a basis for political decision-making by the state, regions and joint municipal authorities, comparative information between regions and information on the effectiveness of measures. The proposal suggests that the current Administrative Centre for the Development of Ely Centres and Employment and Economic Development Offices (KEHA Centre) should continue to operate the industry-dependent IT services of the Employment and Economic Development Administration and become the Growth Services Agency at the beginning of the year 21. The Agency would continue to develop, produce and maintain platforms for digital services and information systems in the employment and economic administration by providing services itself and by purchasing. The Agency would also continue to carry out the tasks of state compensation within the meaning of the Act on the Promotion of Integration. In addition, the Agency would extend the one-year transitional period for the payment of subsidies and grants granted by the TE Offices prior to the entry into force of the regional reform and aid and grants granted by certain provinces as growth services. Mr President! The tasks of support for the use of digital services and customer information systems would also be transferred to the growth service agency at the customer service centre of the Employment and Economic Administration. In addition, the Finnish Growth Service Agency would provide centralised advice on national growth services, such as Business Finland and Finnvera, and on government services related to growth services. In this way, national, cross-sectoral advisory services operating on the one-stop-shop principle in employment and economic administration service centres can be maintained, such as the financial assistance advisory service, which provides advice to entrepreneurs with financial and payment difficulties in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice as well as in matters of the Tax Administration. Regional needs would be taken into account in the Finnish Growth Services Agency. It would have a board of directors with strong regional representation. The tasks of the Management Board should include, inter alia, to manage and supervise the Agency’s activities, to decide on the Agency’s general objectives for the outcome of the negotiations and to establish the Agency’s rules of procedure. The Customer Consultation Board would include representatives of authorities, state actors, provinces, joint municipal boards, service providers and final customers using the services of the Agency. The purpose of the Customer Advisory Board would be to ensure that the needs of the State, provinces and joint municipal authorities are taken into account in the performance of the Agency’s tasks. The proposed Act on the processing of customer data in growth services would provide for the processing of customer data in regional and national growth services. There would be two customer information systems for processing, a customer information system for recruitment and employment and a customer information system for business services. The Finnish Growth Service Agency would be responsible for developing, producing and maintaining customer information systems, and funding would be provided through the Agency. The Agency would also be responsible for the tasks of the controller in relation to the information security of the customer information system. Laws are intended to enter into force at the beginning of 2020 at the same time as other laws related to the reform of regional and growth services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u107	Mr President! Minister Lintilä presented a very important piece of legislation relating to a comprehensive reform of the regional government. It is therefore appropriate to take the floor when such an important presentation is on the table, even though the work of Independence Day is already pressing on. One of the challenges here is, of course, that, when the provincial administration is precisely the autonomous development of the provinces, this agency would essentially operate in Helsinki, even if it had offices in the provinces, and my question is this: is sufficient self-development of the provinces guaranteed that it will not be restricted from this direction in Helsinki?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u108	Mr President! As I said, there will be a very strong representation of the provinces and this has been prepared in good cooperation with the provinces and state actors, and at least I do not know anything that contradicted the fact that the regions retain their own development potential.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u109	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u110	Madam President! There is a government proposal to amend the pharmaceutical law. The proposed law would implement the changes to the pharmaceutical safety features of the pharmaceutical directive and the national regulatory aspects of the EU Regulation on the safety features of medicinal products. The safety features of the medicinal products allow identification and verification of the authenticity of the individual medicinal product. The safety of medicines is essential for public health. Citizens must be able to trust that medicines are of good quality and genuine. The safety features of medicinal products would contribute to the safety of authorised medicinal products. The aim is to prevent counterfeit medicines from ending up in the legal distribution channels of medicines, such as pharmacies, hospital pharmacies and wholesalers. The government proposal before us proposes to provide for when and when the medicinal product must have safety features. In addition, the pharmaceutical law would provide, among other things, for when the safety features of the medicinal product can be partially or completely covered or removed. The Government's proposal also proposes to provide for another issue, namely the inclusion of provisions on the so-called pharmacy contract and the obligation for pharmacies to review the validity of the pharmacy contract. Pharmacies check whether the customer has a valid pharmacy contract when the pharmacy supplies medicinal products containing centrally acting medicines and substances classified as narcotics. The proposal would create a legal basis for the processing of personal data required by the EU Data Protection Regulation. The aim of the pharmacy contract procedure is to support rational and systematic drug treatment for drug users with substance abuse or drug dependence, the risk or other need for centralised treatment. Drug dependence is a major problem in which open health care models have been developed that ensure safe and appropriate practices but allow for, for example, the implementation of independent medical treatment and the management of responsibility. In view of the desire to continue to allow the establishment of the pharmacy contract system, it is important to provide it with an appropriate legal basis for the regulation of the processing of personal data. As a legislative solution, the processing of personal data would be based directly on the law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u111	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 12/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-05-ps-126.u112	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the University Act and the University of Applied Sciences Act, and the aim of this proposal is to offer universities new opportunities to respond to future skills needs. The aim is, among other things, to increase the share of Finnish young people with a higher education degree and to improve the possibility of continuous learning. This proposal is linked to the implementation of the vision of higher education and research in 2030, and this long-term vision also has a parliamentary observatory. Mr President! The Finns of Peru support most of the aims of this bill, because we believe that they will at least partially meet the challenges of today, both as studies and working life continue to change. Although the core areas of competence of most professions remain unchanged, many occupations increasingly require new types of skills, which of course education policy should be prepared for in the future. But of course it should also be borne in mind that sufficient funding must be provided for this reform of education policy in future, so that Finns can continue to work in their home country. Unfortunately, the Sipilä government is not very well-suited in the field of education policy. Mr President! True Finns are in principle in favour of making student choices more flexible, but in the future we must ensure that the content and quality of the compulsory education is equal to that of normal education leading to a qualification, and the committee has also drawn attention to this in its report. In particular, I would like to point out here that, like a number of expert opinions, we Finns consider it very problematic that the regulation of individual choices should be amended in this legislative proposal. As far as we can see, it will be incomplete by the time the bill passes. This situation can become particularly problematic if, as is currently the case, the admission of the most suitable applicants to the sector is no longer ensured. We believe that instead of what has been proposed in this legislative proposal, there should be a certain time limit for the choice to be made in order to ensure that the candidates are ranked. That is why we object to the amendment to both legislative proposals and to the proposal for a statement on this same subject, and we will make formal proposals on this at a later stage.
