ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 10/2018 vp on the basis of the opinion on the report. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance, with a maximum of 5 minutes of group speeches. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order I am considering, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u2	Mr President! This is based on a report by the Parliament's Committee on Finance, and a total of six objections have been raised to this report. Ladies and gentlemen, Finland's economy continues to recover, and economic growth is increasingly widespread. According to the Ministry of Finance, GDP will grow by 2.6 per cent in the current year and by 2.2 per cent next year. However, towards the end of the planning period, growth is slowing down according to current estimates. The budgetary position has improved rapidly as a result of adjustment measures and good economic development. The deficit has contracted and will turn into a surplus in the coming years after a deficit of more than ten years. Public debt started to decline in 2016, and the debt ratio will continue to decline over the forecast period. It is estimated that next year's government debt will be 59.4 % and thus below the EU 60% reference value. However, nominally, debt continues to grow and public finances become indebtedness. However, the Committee draws attention to the fact that good cyclical trends do not address the sustainability gap in public finances, as the growth in age-related expenditure due to the change in the population's age structure will continue to be rapid throughout the 2020s, even until the 2030s. Mr President! The Government’s policy has aimed at reducing the debt of public finances and covering the sustainability gap by means of savings and measures to support growth and improve public service production. The Committee notes, therefore, that many of the government's economic policy objectives, such as the end of the debt-to-GDP ratio and the decline in the debt ratio, are being realised on the basis of forecasts from the Ministry of Finance, and also the government's targets to raise the employment rate to 72% and increase the number of employed persons by 110,000 persons during the Government's term of office seem to be being realised. According to the latest Ministry of Finance Economic Survey, employment is expected to rise to 72% next year and to 72.6 percent as early as 2020. The Committee welcomes the fact that the budgetary plan has shown additional investment in education and skills by targeting additional resources, including the extension of the free early childhood education experiment, the promotion of equality in education, the reduction of foreign language learning, the implementation of the reform of upper secondary schools and the implementation of the reform of vocational education and training. The Committee considers it important to continue developing education and ensuring a high level of quality in early childhood education and training on a regional level. The Committee also believes that it is important to invest in the adequacy of skilled labour. In many places there is a shortage of skilled and trained workers. In this year's amending budget, an increase of around EUR 60 million will be allocated to the acute shortage of experts in order to improve the availability of skilled labour, including conversion training and the development of sector specific training in vocational education and training. Mr President! The committee attaches importance to the adequacy of resources allocated to research, development and innovation, as Finland's success is, however, strongly based on high levels of expertise. Finland is known worldwide as a country of high technology and expertise, but the resources allocated to research, development and innovation activities have decreased over the last ten years. The Committee welcomes the fact that a vision has been drawn up for the development of higher education and research up to 30 years in order to strengthen the importance of higher education and research for the benefit of Finnish society. The Committee notes that R & D has a significant positive impact on productivity and economic growth. Furthermore, the committee is concerned about the funding of basic infrastructure management, as the funding of key projects under the Government Programme is coming to an end and the funding of basic infrastructure management is falling. According to the unanimous proposal submitted by the parliamentary working group at the end of February, an increase of some 300 million additional funding should be allocated annually to reduce the road and rail repair debt. [Department : At least! ] During the spending limits period, the administrative sector of agriculture and forestry also faces strong financial needs. For example, for the current EU programming period, the rural development programme in Mainland Finland has a EUR 90 million deficit in 20, which could lead in particular to a reduction in compensatory payments and environmental compensation. This programming period will also be marked by the preparation and possibly implementation of the EU's agricultural policy for the next programming period. In addition, the Committee draws attention to the fact that the funds earmarked for agricultural investment in the frameworks will not be sufficient to finance investment in accordance with the objectives after 2019. Mr President! The budgetary plan has been drawn up in a situation where social and regional reform has not yet been adopted, but the reform is expected to enter into force on 1 January 2020. The level of regional funding is therefore to a large extent a technical calculation drawn up on the basis of regional financing proposals. The parliamentary procedure is still pending, but in response to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the government has proposed, among other things, some changes in the financing of the provinces and the timetable for reform. These changes may have an impact on the financing needs and their timing for the spending limits period. However, the committee stresses the need to ensure adequate regional funding and the smooth start of reform. In spite of the circumstances and the differences in service needs among the inhabitants of the province, they must have the capacity to carry out their statutory tasks, and regardless of the final solution, it is also important to ensure the credibility of the spending limits system and its effectiveness as a governance system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u3	Thank you for the introduction. Let's go to group speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u4	Mr President! According to the principles of the city center, the land should be left to future generations in a better condition than it has itself received. Our election promise before the parliamentary elections was to get Finland in order. Now we can say that the objective has been achieved. Finland has been raised from the edge of the gap to a situation where economic growth is fastest in the Nordic countries this year. Employment is improving everywhere in Finland and the end of living as a debt is in sight. Faith in the future is strong. The change has been achieved through a joint agreement that has required the arrival of all Finns. Mr President! As a professional in construction, I know that when the foundation is in order, there is a chance to build a new one. Our children and grandchildren deserve Finland, where everyone has a good chance to live up to their dreams. We have to take care of each other. Despite the difficult starting point of the economy, under the direction of the Centre, the guaranteed pension for the lowest-income pensioner will increase during this parliamentary term by a total of almost EUR 40 per month. During this parliamentary term, the smallest parental allowance will increase by nearly EUR 100 per month. The improvement of basic security needs to be continued over the next few years, and at the same time it needs to be reformed. Social and regional reform is the biggest equality reform in Finland for decades. We want to ensure better access to basic health care for all Finns, including the unemployed and pensioners. The centre wants to achieve a long and carefully prepared reform. Suspending the reform would serve only the interests of market forces. It is also a question of the credibility of the political system. Madam President! Work is the most sustainable way to eradicate poverty, inequality and exclusion. Now jobs are open all over Finland. However, efforts to meet workers and jobs still need to be continued. In particular, young people and the long-term unemployed must be supported in order to reach the path of employment. As the economy grows, labour shortages have in many places become a shutdown for business growth. The Centre considers that measures are needed to increase the availability of skilled labour. It is good that, for example, the use of unemployment benefit is made flexible in the form of wage subsidies and start-up grants and short-term training is increased. The Centre wants to continue to have at least one higher education institution and sufficient vocational training in each province. In addition to a good education system, continued economic growth requires improved productivity. Research and product development efforts must be increased in the coming years as public finances become more balanced. Mr President! The general security situation has changed and Finland must therefore also ensure that the level of credible defence is maintained. We have to be prepared for big purchases. Finland has a unique concept of overall safety, which we can all be proud of. The essential part of our security is to maintain security of supply. Finland is the northernmost agricultural country in the world, where the air is not always favorable for food production. Farms have lived hard for years. It must be ensured that new generations also want and dare to produce Finnish food grown in clean soil, which is an even more export product these days. The Finnish landscape includes forest and water, many of which have come to enjoy as a Midsummer in one way or another. Research has enabled more diverse use of forests and improved opportunities for cultivation and conservation. Forests bring well-being to the whole of Finland. Their responsible use can be further increased. Every year in Finland 150 million trees are planted. This example alone illustrates the long-term management of forests in Finland and the enormous employment impact they have. When the forests are maintained, they bind carbon dioxide, that is, act as a carbon sink. The forest industry, like the rest of the industry, needs a functioning network of fairways. Adequate financing of the transport network [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u5	Madam President! A description of the budgetary plan for the challenges of the coming years is something to stop in the midst of positive growth news. The good economic situation has not corrected our structural problems. Although right now the economy is growing and debt is falling, we still have a problem with how to finance the important services of our welfare society as care and care expenditure increases and economic growth slows down. The visible economic growth will not be enough to finance benefits and services at the current level for the longer term. According to the Ministry of Finance's estimate, our economic growth will decline after a boom of less than 1.5%. As the working-age population declines, our economic growth depends solely on productivity growth. Mr President! Finland is repeatedly listed as one of the most prosperous and competitive countries in the world. We have a skilled working population and a stable society. It seems that only us Finns stand in the way of Finland’s success. The most educated people in the world do not learn the lessons, even though we repeatedly get the same lazy homework from the OECD and the European Commission, for example. The Commission invites Finland to complete the social welfare reform, to improve its employment efforts and to monitor more closely household indebtedness. In addition, Finland should in particular improve incentives to accept work, i.e. lower labour taxation and reform social security. The Coalition Party has presented a general model of social security reform and wants to further reduce labour taxation in line with the recommendations. In its country classifications, the OECD stresses that structural reforms, such as social welfare reform, are needed to balance public finances. The Association of Industrial Countries recommends to Finland, among other things, a reduction in the tax burden on labour and an increase in environmental and consumer taxation. According to the organization, home care support should also be reformed in Finland in such a way as to increase child day care and parental employment. All these recommendations will be signed by the Coalition Party. Mr President! The employment rate is lower in Finland than in any other Nordic country. The biggest hole in our tax base is low employment. Finland has also been repeatedly urged to increase flexibility in the labour market. The Assembly's parliamentary group therefore agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Finance that the government should continue to provide support for growth and employment and, through its measures, promote the availability of skilled labour in sectors and regions affected by labour shortages. This cyclical peak would be the most opportune time for labour market reforms to support employment and long-term economic growth. These include promoting local reconciliation, lowering the pay threshold and removing the need for foreign labour. Finland is not yet fully aware of the absolute decline in our working-age population every year and the need for more factors in our country. Mr President! The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party stresses in particular the need to ensure adequate funding for education and research and development. These are the most effective means of supporting productivity growth. Investment in education and innovation is also essential for economic growth and employment. In order to get more important high-value jobs in Finland, we need to tax knowledge more moderately, that is to say reduce the strain on labour taxation. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party also draws attention to the adequate financing of transport routes. The circulation of our economic growth, the smooth movement of people and goods, must be secured. With the Danish employment rate, we would have 100,000 more people at work and about a billion more to use for the above-mentioned needs. Mr President! The government is in the process of achieving its economic policy objectives. Public finances are balancing for the first time since the financial crisis. Targets to raise the employment rate to 72% and to increase the number of employed persons to 110,000 persons also seem to be realised in 2019. There is no doubt that the results are positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u6	Thank you. Next, the Socialist Group in Parliament. Congressman Magpie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u7	Mr President! The Social Democrats are delighted that Europe's growth has finally taken hold on Finland. Finland's recession has been longer and deeper than in other European countries, and Finland has been the last to be sucked into others. In particular, we welcome the growth in employment which is approaching the intermediate objectives. The big challenge for the next government is to reach a 75% level. At the same time, it should be noted that this budgetary plan already warns that growth will subside within the next two years. We must not stop now, therefore, but we must ensure that growth is sustainable. Growth needs to be borne and supported by all Finns. Mr President! It is at this time that hundreds of thousands of hardworking Finns will see from their account tape, at whose expense government parties praise themselves. Also this summer, holiday money is being cut, such as last summer and next summer. Even this summer, many cannot afford to travel or even go to the amusement park with children. The longer the work, the lower the salary, the greater the loss that no tax reduction compensates for. Who thinks it's fair for a 20-year-old local nurse to be the one paying for Sipilä's volunteers? At last, it's not about money. It's about appreciation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u16	Thank you. The next item is the blue parliamentary group. Congressman Torvinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u18	Thank you, honourable Speaker! Our economic picture is good, GDP growth forecast 2.6 for this current year. Of course, growth towards the end of the spending limits period is projected to be slightly more subdued. According to some experts, the end of the boom season is nearing. But in order to make a credible economic review, we need to place Finland in the right context. What are the implications of the ECB's activities when the increase in the purchase programme ends at the turn of the year? What will be the effect of customs clearance between the USA and China? And what are the effects of rising oil prices or inflation and its impact on loans? All these factors affect our economic development. However, these issues are dealt with rather narrowly in our budgetary plan, which is actually the answer to the EU's demand for a medium-term budgetary plan. But if we go to our economic feet, they'll be in good shape. Exports are out of the question. Tourism is a new driving force for the economy. Forestry is doing well, the price of logs and, in particular, fibrewood has risen. It's just time to get the lower-grade road set up. The central government debt ratio is falling, and the local government economy has seen a strong turn. For that, thank you to all the decision-makers, colleagues, delegates too. Bank balance sheets are in good condition. The balance sheets of limited liability companies and partnerships will be strengthened. Households' indebtedness is worrying and it is at a record level. Debt is also highly concentrated. A small proportion of households are very in debt. It also has its own impact on housing company loans. We have to do something about it. More regulation, but with little steps. You have to go all the way to the house. It would also be good to gradually increase the purchasing power of the middle class and tie the increase in purchasing power to an increase in the employment rate. The increase in purchasing power allows households to shorten debts or alternatively save or consume. The fact is that households have pushed the Finnish economy out of the pit, but have remained there themselves. Now is the time to pull our households up, otherwise our economy will be too vulnerable. President! Let's go to the reform program. In the context of the budgetary plan, the parties will be able to present their broader multiannual reform programmes. We are therefore drawing up a broad option with a number of programmes and a number of statements. First: the central government must be further reformed. We see it as necessary. The challenges we face are incalculable, but with progressive governance we can create Finland in clearer waters. The silos still need to be removed. In order to manage complex phenomena, phenomena-based budgeting must be carried out. This will enable us to detect, among other things, the cost of ageing or the impact on children. The involvement of citizens must be further enhanced. We also need to reform our training. Research and product development must be invested. Lifelong learning should be one of the key projects of the future government. We know the challenge that a million Finns need to be re-educated in the coming decade. We need to get scalability in education, otherwise the task is impossible. All training should be intensified and used up all the time we have. Among other things, the time between the choice of an educational institution and the start of a school may be between 4 and 5 months. The average age of starting universities should also be reduced. The average age of those who have started in the last five years has risen by one year. At the same time, the retirement age has increased by 3 months. Looks like we're continuing the fools' blanket. There must also be a social reform during the forthcoming government term. The reconciliation of work and social benefits must be done intelligently. You have to add encouraging elements and take the job at every step. Should this reform be carried out gradually by first combining certain similar benefits? President! The key to all these changes and reforms is to get close to people. Administration and services must be close to the citizens. It would therefore be good for the administration to carry out such a ‘near’ reform. And how do we get close to a person? With information and its use. The ‘close’reformisin fact a The knowledge that Kela and the public administration have must benefit the nation. This could help to find those who are at risk of falling out of society, maintain people’s ability to function or improve home care, prevent people from being incapacitated or use this information to support parenthood. The key challenge for public finances is therefore how to use information for the benefit of the nation in the future, how to implement lifelong learning, how to reconcile work and social benefits, and how to reform our administration and get close to people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u19	The next item is the Green Parliamentary Group. Congressman Kari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u20	Mr President! For three years we have been watching this government cut off everything that is most valuable in this country. And now you are telling us that the direction has changed, that education is now being invested in, that inequality is now being combated, that nature is now being protected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u23	Thank you. Let us now move on to the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group. Congressman Uotila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u24	Madam President! From what the government says, we have a super-government. You have turned Europe and the world into an upturn in the economy, and apparently you have managed to revive the ECB's monetary policy even before the start of your term. You dare to take credit for the improvement in Finland's economy and employment, even though the real reason for this is the growth in external demand. You've made some mistakes on the ground. The competitiveness agreement reached by blackmail and intimidation, i.e. the workers' discipline agreement, did little to improve unit productivity, but at the same time destroyed the atmosphere in the labour market. A moderate wage development, to which the Ay movement was ready to commit, would have had the same effects. But the government chose the path of humiliation. Your concern about the sustainability gap was forgotten when you made a billion-dollar gap in public finances by means of a sudden change in payments and taxes. At the same time, you claim that we cannot afford to improve student money, pensions and basic security. Kiky was a massive income transfer from employees and the public sector to employers and owners. For you, it is all right, but this is not the case with the hundreds of thousands of low-paid employees in the public sector who, again in the summer, see hundreds of euros of holiday money cut in their pay slips. Despite the tax reductions you advertised, in recent years their purchasing power has deteriorated due to inflation, as has their position vis-à-vis private workers. Do you wonder what the policy of humiliating and punishing workers, the unemployed and pensioners does to the climate of society and the motivation of people? In the longer term, the highlighted confrontation and tensions will inevitably erupt in one way or another. Mr President! The budgetary plan lacks investments in Finland’s knowledge base. The budget for education and research and development, which is essential for our future, is totally inadequate. The Left Alliance insists that the education budget should be returned immediately to at least the level before the cuts. Research and development efforts must be raised to the top of the world again. At least 5% of GDP should be allocated to them, of which at least 1% through public funding. In addition, JTS does not provide sufficient solutions to help those who are hard-to-work and to ease the problem of matching the labour market. The frameworks lack both the withdrawal of basic security weaknesses and the increase in climate and environmental funding. The effects of the biggest arms acquisitions in the history of Finland are also examined very superficially. Mr President! The clearest failure on the part of the government is that JTS does not have the financial impact of any possible social welfare reform. In the wrong way, the government is going through structural change, which involves billions of euros in addition to citizens' well-being and basic services. You will not even give an example of the budgetary impact of the reform, although the majority of experts believe that the total costs will increase. Much more money goes into the start-up phase than you're prepared for. Nor do you show any mechanisms to achieve the longer-term cost-control objective. On the contrary, the market model that breaks down care chains increases partial optimisation and total costs. If you intend to stick to the cost cutter, it will lead to a reduction in the quality or availability of services and an increase in customer charges. We have all been able to read these concerns in the carefully prepared opinions of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr President! The main objective of the Government’s so-called freedom of choice model is to open up the Finnish health market to large private companies and international investors. Taxpayers pay, and the social welfare companies roll up the profits. With an efficient market economy, this friend capitalism has nothing to do with it. In Finland, cost-effective but under-resourced public health care is internationally comparable. It should be kept in public circulation and companies and associations can act as complements to the current range of services. As a left-wing alliance, we have presented our own social model in which social services and the market model that endanger public finances are replaced by the necessary adjustments to our current system. We also propose that health centre fees should be abolished throughout the country and that everyone should be guaranteed access to urgent care immediately and even within a week. These reforms can be carried out regardless of the administrative structure that social and health care services will be produced in the future. Take a lesson from the left-wing union model and stop messing around! [Department : Where are the doctors? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u25	Ärade talman, Mr President! Ekonomin i Finland fortsätter att växa starkt. Enligt både finansministeries och Finlands Banks prognoser växer Finlands bunp med 2.9 percent iår. Nästa år väntas tillväxten avta något, men Finlands Bank räknar ändå med en hyfsad tillväxtprocent på 2,2 percent och undertryker framför allt att produktiviteten har utvecklats gynsamt. Bra så, men det finns ingen orsak för regeringen att lute sig tillbaka. Riskanalyser visar att statsfinanserna inte har den buffert som behövs på sikt. Det som är klart är att flera nödvändiga samhällsreformer som borde ha skötts under denna valperiod faller på nästa regerings ansvar. För det första: reformen av famileledigheterna, och för det andra är flera strukturella problemm inom arbetslivet fortfarande olö. Den bästa signalen för barnfabillioner, också för att sporra unga manniskor att bilda famil, är en reform av fabileledigheterna där mammor och pappor är med på Jämställda grunder.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u26	Mr President! We have recently witnessed strong economic growth. Economic development will also look hopeful in the coming years, even though the pace of growth is slowing down. International economic conditions are an important factor behind the economic revolution. However, the government also deserves recognition, and economic growth and employment are not created on its own. Measures are needed to support favourable employment developments. Although the unemployment rate is still very high, there are many sectors and regions in Finland affected by the lack of labour. The weak availability of skilled labour is already holding back economic recovery. Solutions must be found to meet the labour force and job vacancies. The government has invested additional resources in improving the availability of labour, but that is not enough. In addition to conversion training, the Christian Democratic Parliament would like to see new investments in wage support and start-up money. Similarly, measures are needed to increase labour mobility and the education and training system should be developed in such a way as to provide more and better targeted training places for sectors and regions affected by labour shortages. Employment services must take better account of the situation and opportunities of the individual. Mr President! The sustainability problems of public finances have not disappeared. The age structure of the population and the declining birth rate are a real problem that must be tackled vigorously. Now is not the time to wait for the next election, but to take action to achieve a better family policy. The proposed improvements to single mothers' allowances and the increase in the minimum daily allowance are welcome. However, they are not enough, but measures are now needed to improve the position of all families with children. Children's allowances and other family allowances must be increased, children's allowance must be returned and a high level of early childhood education invested in order to encourage families to realise the number of children they wish. We know that the average number of children is less than what families want. The Christian Democratic Group reminds the government that in this period it has weakened the position of pensioners in many different ways. The freezes and cuts in the National Pensions Index during the period, as well as increases in service fees, medicines and travels Kela-ownership shares, have in fact been a major blow to pensioners struggling with their livelihoods. A cosmetic increase in guaranteed pensions proposed by the government is not sufficient. A substantial increase in the guarantee pension is needed and the deficiencies in home care, informal care and hospice care for the elderly should be corrected. Support for informal care must finally be made tax-free. Mr President! Unfortunately, the weakest part of the government's budgetary plan is found in the regional and social reform. The parliamentary examination of the reform has shown that there are major shortcomings in the government's cost estimates and financial calculations. Proper calculations have still not been brought to Parliament, even though laws should have been adopted on several occasions. The cost-saving effects of the reform have been left entirely to implementation and a challenge for the regions. However, the government has built its budgetary plans on the basis that reforms will improve the sustainability of public finances. Poorly implemented regional and social reform can at worst lead to a significant increase in public expenditure rather than a reduction in the desired cost. Mr President! I propose that Parliament approve the eight-point statement of objection 5.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u27	Next, Minister of Finance, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u28	Madam President! First of all, thank Parliament, the committees and, in particular, the Committee on Finance and its chairman for their excellent work. There is good, thorough work and good reflection, which will certainly also help in further work on future policies. According to the government's assessment, we are achieving almost all our own economic policy objectives. The economy is on top of it. This year's growth estimate could be increased to 2.9 percentage points and is then the second year of real growth. The employment rate will rise to 72 next year, the overall tax rate will fall to 42, indebtedness will continue to decline and public finances will stabilise at a good pace, i.e. these results will be excellent.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u41	Let's take a little more than an hour, maybe. First of all, Mr Kalli, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u42	Madam Speaker! Perhaps I will continue with the Minister of Finance's speech, which partly contained an answer to what has changed. I think even blind Reetta sees the government taking less debt. Consumer confidence has clearly increased, resulting in an increase in consumption taxes in the central government treasury. There has therefore been a dramatic change which will increase predictability and further increase consumer confidence. In this debate on public finances, it would be useful to find elements that would continue to create the conditions for the next government to maintain consumer confidence, because it is crucial, which will then be able to finance future, important services for citizens. There has now been a clear message from this Chamber about what has changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u43	Madam President! When I listened to the group speeches, a few opposition parties must be recognised. There were some very constructive speeches. But I wonder what the Green Left's position is when billions of dollars were spent all the time, but we did not take a single position on where the money was coming from. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u45	Let's get the group speakers first.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u46	Mr President! I would also like to thank all parties for their different views on this important issue of ours. But there is one thing I particularly want to draw attention to. Now that Finland is losing its share of the world market, the main reason for this is that the availability of skilled labour is becoming more difficult. Like the government, for example, the Social Democrats are concerned, in the same way, about the decline in the workforce and the difficulties in access to skilled labour. However, when it is not accepted that tax progress should be made, for example, to get new people from the EU here in Finland to resolve these issues and not to accept the release of work-related immigration, and I did not find in Harakka's speech the part that would bring about this very touching problem, I would have asked: how will you solve this in the forthcoming government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u47	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance in particular for his generous reply. I presented five positive reforms of the Social Democrats, and you then had five word words of bark in return. When I said that the credibility of the budgetary plan is at stake when it lacks the cost of the government's social welfare model, we are now trying to identify them more carefully to discuss what is lacking in JTS, even at a rough level, according to what we have heard on two occasions in the Committee on Budgets from dozens of experts. First, wage harmonization, customer shift, administration, staff growth, facilities, start-up costs, other start-up costs: Each of these cost items is several hundred billion,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u50	Mr President! After Mr Harakka's speech, I will try to calm the situation down and, if you wish, you will have that clarification. I think the speeches have been excellent. Of course, there is such silly nonsense that now suddenly this government has prevented young women from giving birth, and that is quite extraordinary to me. I don't know where such green research has been done, that we've been calling young Finnish women and asked if you want to give birth. This is like populism and playless with what the greens do. On the subject, good presentations, and not by raising taxes and setting wind power plants around the bucket of Finland. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u51	President! Yes, after all, we had five reforms here: Firstly, consumer purchasing power must be increased, the middle class above all, and housing must be cheaper. We would increase this consumer's purchasing power by tying increased purchasing power to an increase in the employment rate. Sotu reform must be achieved in the next term of government. Social benefits and work must be able to be coordinated smoothly so that taking work is always encouraging. Training must go to lifelong learning. We have a skilled workforce becoming a huge shortage. With regard to governance, we also need to remove silos, move towards phenomena-based budgeting and otherwise make our administrations more efficient. Then again, this ‘near’ reform: I'd assume we have to go into a human-driven knowledge-based economy. We need to start leading with information. Kela and other government bodies have gathered a huge mass of information
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u52	Mr President! Almost one billion cut from education, hundreds of millions cut from the unemployed, students, pensioners and sick people, and the Minister of Finance tells us that the problem is the wrong situation of the opposition, that it is the problem here. When it was fixed here that everyone here has met, is it not the problem that some have met so much more than others? At the same time, it must be said that it is very sad to hear these mockery speeches from the government parties about the situation of young women, which means that young families are afraid to have children. I would like to see these matters taken much more seriously. We support all these good proposals that the government is making here. We are not opposed to them, but what we hope for is that our own mistakes are acknowledged and corrected and not put on patches that do not change direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u53	Madam President! I wonder if you, Mr Orpo, are not now going to take a little too easy a path when you say that the cost-saving target of EUR 3 billion will be achieved by putting in a framework, that is to say a cost-cutting system: if you do not give 3 billion more money, then it will be better and cheaper. It can't be like this. But if this were the case, why not use a similar cost cutter when you mentioned these fighter acquisitions ahead in the next decade? I think it's a fork between 7 and 10 billion. There, too, put up a hard fight against the general and say that a cost-control cutter, for example 3 billion, must be found systems with equivalent security, with the same defence capability at a lower cost of 3 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u54	Madam President! Finland's agriculture is in a deep crisis of profitability. Although the Government Programme’s objectives are ambitious — increasing agricultural productivity and increasing annual yields by EUR 500 million per year — these developments have been very grotesque. The Swedish Parliament Group shares the concerns of the Committee on Finance about the future of agriculture. It is important for us that the government and Parliament do not accept that Finland will receive smaller EU subsidies during the next period of support. National agricultural subsidies and investment subsidies must also be secured. It is also extremely important to strengthen the position of farmers in the food supply chain, both through legislation and through voluntary measures. And that is why I ask: how does the government intend in practice to reverse this bad development and to guarantee sufficient room for manoeuvre for the next government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u55	Mr President! I'm going to go into two group commentaries. — Representative Emma Kari criticised the government for allowing the Finnish Foreign Minister to use his position against women's rights with the blessing of the government. I find this throw offensive to Minister Soin's expression of conviction. I hope that there will also be respect for the conviction that women's rights should be promoted, but not at the expense of the smallest — half of them are girls. I therefore agree with Mrs Karin's second idea, in which you said that a country that takes care of small ones is a country that will succeed. Secondly, did I hear correctly that Mr Harakka said that there can be no more patriotic act than the fight against war? I hope that such rhetoric will be avoided. Patriotism is too valuable a concept to be harnessed into domestic political differences. And while I am personally concerned about the flaws of the government's social model, it is wrong to label as unpatriotic the support of the social model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u57	The debatable continues. I would like to stress in particular the members of the Committee on Finance. — Mr Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u58	Mr President! Now that it has been said how much the government has helped the poor, 50 million have been said there and another 50 million here, Minister Orpo, have you also calculated how much the most disadvantaged have been cut? When all the cuts that affect the most low incomes, the unemployed, families with children, pensioners, all that has been taken away total 700 million — 700 million — it is not compensated by tax breaks. Why not? Because these people don't make any money. Their wages, their income levels are so low that they do not pay state taxes, and this is not compensated on the municipal tax side. Yes, it has now come to pass that the most disadvantaged are being taken away and given to the richest, and it goes to the heart hard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u59	Mr President! Once again, the government had the opportunity to reverse the course, but unfortunately it did not succeed. The government had the opportunity to reverse the cuts to research, education and the low-income, but the government again chose otherwise. But I want to focus on this issue of social security, which is really, really big and essential from the point of view of the budgetary plan. It has been frustrating to sit in the Committee on Budgets asking for these social assessments, rough estimates, billions of estimates. What we get in response — nothing at all. Minister of Finance, is this a coalition policy of responsibility? Is this a responsible policy, therefore, that the costs of social services are not of interest? Apparently, all I'm interested in is your passing through the cow trade. This is a very worrying development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u60	Mr President! Of course, it is important to remember where this reign began. We were almost bankrupt, central government finances and public finances as a whole, and now the situation is much better. You have to confess to it. The True Finns were involved in these painful operations: when the disease was serious enough, surgery was needed and performed. But now the situation has changed quite radically and we can look ahead, as we should see in this debate. In their protest on 21 December,the Finns of Peru write this statement: ‘The Commission requires that,in the period 2019–2022,the target is set to increase employment to 75%,the government’s debt does not increase or the overall tax burden and the tax,pension and social securitysystems are reformed toremove poorparticipation and exclusion from the world of economic and social exclusion.’
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u61	Mr President! This has already shown that there is a great deal of conscience about these choices of value in the assembly, the kind of nonsense that came out of this Chamber when we criticised the fact that the holiday money for the hard-working workers in the public sector has been cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u64	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is a fact that there has been a significant change in the direction of the economy, and I am surprised that some people here are talking about the need to change direction again. At the moment, our economy is growing, employment is improving and unemployment is falling, but at the same time we are already having difficulty finding skilled labour. There are significant recruitment problems in Kainuu, Lapland, Satakunta. I welcome the fact that we are now looking for a skilled workforce for these tasks through continuing training, additional training and conversion training. But it is also important, as the Committee on Finance said in its own report, to highlight the fact that we have a significant increase in national debt, including other responsibilities, but also, for example, the amount of housing debt in private homes has increased, and this is something that we all need to pay attention to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u70	Mr President! One of the biggest risks to public finances in the coming years is the government's social welfare reform. According to expert estimates, the government's social welfare model can increase costs by up to billions! It is incredible that the government is prepared to save the centre and the coalition to save the cow trade to jeopardise the balance of public finances and the service chains of the citizens. The reform of the social security system could be carried out in full time and without financial risks by dismantling this unholy cow trade. We could abandon the market model and reform the regional government without major financial risks, implement the reform, implement the integration of services in a cost-effective way. Mr President! It is incredible that we are not even prepared to realistically assess the costs of the government's social welfare model, but to take such enormous risks lightly to our vital social and health services and to our public finances. The Committee on Social Affairs was not even able to give an opinion on the budgetary plan. Minister for Finance,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u71	Madam President! There are a lot of views here that show that other views are incredible. It is also quite incredible that here the left-wing opposition — the democracies, the left-wing coalition and the Greens — is concerned that the nation's social and health expenditure will increase. I have never heard that you have been concerned that this expenditure will increase. We are trying to curb this growth. Then there is a constant repetition of the demars' claim that the government went and cut the holiday money. As long as you repeat this, as long as I repeat that the Left Alliance was the only party that opposed the competitiveness pact, that is to say the other left-wing parties, the Greens and the Democrats, you approved the Competitiveness Pact and the holiday money cut in it. Representative Kari accuses others of not confessing their own mistakes. When will the training cuts that were made when Minister Niinistö was on the board, or the Greens were on board, and when will you, Mr Kari, tell us that your owl videos are a complete lie?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u72	Mr President! During the last quarter, Finland's gross domestic product grew by 3.1 per cent. In particular, long-term unemployment is currently falling sharply. That is why it is regrettable that, when you listen to the Group speeches of the SDP and the Greens, you have to say that the reality that exists outside this house and beyond these walls is different from the reality that appears to be the reality of some of the opposition parties living here. Dramaturgy was included in these talks, but you were very economical with the truth. In fact, when you look at how our economy is developing, everything that all the parliamentary parties were aiming for in terms of employment and the economy for this parliamentary term has been done during this parliamentary term. We have seen and heard different kinds of speeches here. One can say, for example, that when you listened to the Group of the Christian Democrats, for example, it gave the government a recognition of what it was meant to give, but, of course, there was also criticism of the opposition. It showed that responsibility for the opposition can also be assumed if it is possible. I guess not everyone can.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u73	Mr President! The Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, spoke of the opposition's false situation. Is it wrong to say that the so-called quantitative reduction by the European Central Bank has contributed to the growth of the euro area economy? Is it wrong to say that a good cyclical situation will ease the moment but will not remedy the problems of economic structures? Is it wrong to say that it is particularly important to be aware that Finland was able to form part of the growth of the international economy by the very lime lines and now it may even be a cyclical peak? And is it wrong to say and say that the government should use all energy, time and energy to promote economic productivity and employment and correct economic structures in good weather? Therefore, the Greens, in particular for the next parliamentary term, will push forward the need for Finland to take the lead in climate, environmental and nature policy and reform social security so that it is always profitable to accept work and to dismantle poverty and incentive traps. And we need to return honor to equal education from early childhood to secondary education and ensure in science, research and innovation that we succeed in a knowledge-based economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u74	Let us take a few more comments. After that, the minister will answer, and then we will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u75	Mr President! Representative The small hill gave a very proper speech. He specifically said that you have to lead with knowledge, not with dreams. For example, a model of housing prices and the way in which the standard of living of Finns can be raised — really good examples. I already thought that the Finns are the only party in this area to defend agriculture, but fortunately the RKP also raised this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u78	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the longer-term view that has been expressed by the government, and my concern is that, although there is good economic growth now, the forecasts for longer-term economic growth are rather slow and insufficient to manage employment well. Interestingly, although employment has now improved, the total number of hours worked in Finland has not increased and is worrying. That is what determines how much results are being made in this society. Therefore, in order to secure longer-term growth, research, product development and innovation efforts are needed. It requires investments in knowledge, investments in raising productivity. Skills and productivity gains come from research and from taking care of the well-being and skills of workers. They've been cut, they've been cut. Should the direction be reversed in order to ensure the financing of longer-term growth, should we not, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u79	Mr President! There has been an interesting debate here, which has been accused in one direction and another, and I would now like to say to you, Minister of Finance, that I am particularly concerned about the way in which the budgetary plan has taken account of this whole package of social and health services. It has been heard from many mouths that this is the most important reform in the coming decades, and it has also been said, for example, on behalf of the EU, that it is one of the most important reforms in Finland. The question is: how dare you, as Minister of Finance, bring in a budgetary plan that does not have any estimates of expenditure on such a large scale, or how to finance the expenditure increases that this is going to entail? This is a very big, important issue, one of the most important things from a fiscal balance point of view to the future. The question is: why do you bring such a package without an estimate of expenditure?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u80	President! Again today, the red-green opposition has criticised the cuts in education that have been made, and once the government has been given a little hand-out and the training has been invested in it, then with contempt we are talking about Band-Aids. But last season, when even more drastic training operations were performed, not even patches were found to replace, but the freefall continued deeper.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u84	Madam President! Over 90,000 people have been employed during this parliamentary term. It is a remarkable achievement that radiates to more people. Labour mobility is something that has been made very clear in committee. For example, Vatti's expert report says that mobility measures are those that should be found, and one of the ways in which Vatti recommends is to abolish the transfer tax. Well, even removing it is not, of course, a problem-free matter. The revenue is EUR 860 million per year, and it must, of course, also be compensated for. For example, a property tax or a sales profit tax has been discarded as an alternative from which it can be taken. In this context, I would like to ask Mr Orpo how you see the impact of this transfer tax on mobility. We still have too many people out of work. They cannot be blamed for the fact that tax issues place thresholds on moving. So what can we do?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u85	Madam President! The concerns of the Christian Democrats could actually be put into a few words: the age structure of the population. In other words, we have too small births in terms of nation renewal on the one hand and the sustainability of the economy and the pension system on the other. Of course, it is also a question of some kind of cultural change, but we, as political decision-makers, must do everything we can to ensure that young families have a faith in the future and also a desire to have children. We need a better family policy, an increase in child allowances, including family benefits, and when we are doing family leave reform, it is done from the point of view of families, on the children’s terms, not from the tip of economic strollers. And it would also be extremely important to return the child allowance that this government cut this season. After all, because of that effect, families with children are the only group with increased taxation, and that is a disgrace. When all others have had some sharing to do, families with children have been taken away.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u86	Mr President! Congressman Harakka said there's an elephant in this room. This room has an even bigger elephant, and it is the euro. Not even those who were right when they opposed Finland’s entry into the euro zone will want to talk about it. We know that the budgetary plans for the next few years will be completely shaky because Finland lacks economic and economic independence because we are involved in the euro area. History shows what this has meant. For the past ten years, Finland has had zero growth, minus growth. At the same time, the Swedish economy has grown by 25%. If we had had economic growth as good as in Sweden, we would now have a 50 billion larger economy, 25 billion more available in the public sector. I ask the Minister for Finance: how are we prepared for the next crisis in the euro area? This is likely to lead to some sort of break-up of the euro area. Will we go back to national currencies in general, or will only some Member States return to national currencies alongside the euro?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u87	Let us take three more replies to this and then the Minister's reply. After that, the debate will continue. Representatives Rossi, Jasper and Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u88	Madam President! For the sake of clarity, it is good to note that the Committee on Finance supports the economic policy and budgetary plan of the Sipilä Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u91	Madam President! You can ask both Aalto, Haraka and Väyrysä whether it is wrong to say that Finland is lagging behind in growth or only at a late stage of growth, which was indeed related to Finland's social rigidities, for example in the labour market. Should we find those models there instead of talking about a euro difference? At the same time, I can ask Mr Haraka, too, when you said that Finland has finally been able to grow and now we have to ensure sustainable growth. However, you did not say a word about entrepreneurship, about entrepreneurship, about creating work, about things like this. In the past, you have already said that the taxation of entrepreneurs will be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u94	Let us take two more replies: Mr Gustafsson and Mr Mustajärvi, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u95	Mr President! Minister Orpo, you are concerned about three major issues: international protectionism, the ageing population and — a surprise — the wrong picture of the opposition. I'm sorry I get a smile because it was so far-fetched. You know, when you yourself set up this Group on Inequality in Professor Juho Saare, that it was based on the fact that the government itself, internally, saw that this policy has led to an increase in inequality, and that is the main concern that the Social Democrats have been talking about and worried about. In this context, there is also one of our proposals relating to the rise in the level of small occupational pensions. In particular, there are many women who receive a little over EUR 1 000 a month's earnings-related pension. That is the kind of initiative we have taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u96	Mr President! Even the Minister of Finance should remember that debt is also in debt when it comes to the procurement of arms. During the planning period, expenditure in the Ministry of Defence's section will rise from EUR 3.2 billion to EUR 4.5 billion per year, which is precisely due to strategic projects and to the fact that expenditure on defence equipment, other expenditure, will rise by 5.7 per cent each year. In addition, there will be an EU Defence Fund and permanent structured cooperation, which they will not be free of charge either. It is worth considering that if you live in a democracy, it is the civilians who decide in a democracy, not the soldiers. It was rather worrying that the state's official machinery had been put in secret to lobby politicians too, that no politician would question these purchases, which are historically large on the Finnish scale. And that $3 billion in fighter procurement is the same amount that is said to be saved in the mess.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u97	And then the finance minister from the scene, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u98	Madam President! There are a lot of interesting speeches I would like to comment on. Let's start with these fighter acquisitions. On a very broad basis, the Parliament has approved in its defence policy report the acquisition of this fighter and roughly estimated its size range of 7 to 10 billion. It's a huge challenge. That price will then come in due course, when the procurement is decided, to be revised. We have wanted to do so in such a way that the budgetary plans have also identified this proportion of spoiler acquisitions in order to see what it costs in order to assess the overall picture. There is no desire to contrast welfare services with the necessary defence procurement. This is a difficult question, but, in any case, when the acquisition is already, as it were, parliamentaryly blessed, we must consider its effects. In the 20th century, together with ageing, they are really challenging, and that is why, at a good time now, we need to be able to repair the structures, put the debt to zero and make reforms to Finnish society that we can manage with. This is everything. We do not yet have the economy in the condition of central government finances, not public finances, nor the employment rate, that we should be able to make permanent expenditure increases. We must continue to maintain a strict fiscal policy line, as the Committee on Finance also wisely states. We need to make the economic structures work, we need investment, we need jobs, we need to continue the good development that the government has now made for itself, we need to continue the good development so that we can achieve its Nordic employment rate. Then we will have a completely different situation to think about how we will see to it that Finland will continue to be equal in the future, a good society in which, despite its family background, everyone has the opportunity to go to school and achieve the same opportunities in life. An equal society, that's everything. As far as social costs are concerned, the Committee on Finance makes a very wise statement on this too, but once again: I think there is a much greater risk of Finnish services in the 20th century that reform would not be achieved and decisions taken. This is the start of the implementation phase, which in practice — and you know this very well — is the one that solves how it can be done. An excellent way of doing this is to ensure that, from the 20th century onwards, the budgetary plan is constantly going through costs and activities and making the necessary changes. Here it comes. That is where it comes from, and it will ensure that these objectives are achieved. A much greater threat is what Mr Harakka said is that all the rubbish will be poured out. That is not how Finland is built. If it was the positive approach you just called for, then there was a strange view. Mr Väyrynen asked about a possible euro crisis. You know it well, you know it thoroughly. I personally believe that, when the mechanisms that have been built together with European partners — the European Stability Mechanism, the Banking Union — are deepened and strengthened, they will provide the tools to resolve the next possible crises. There is much work to be done. For example, we are well aware of the problems in the banking sector in Italy. Mr President! There's still a lot of things to do, but can I get on with it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u99	Let us take another floor in a moment. — — — — Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u100	Mr President! There has never been a budgetary plan in such a foggy and uncertain outlook. So we're talking about a billion-dollar klaff, about which you can't even say if it's a plus sign or a minus sign. Mr Rantakangas, Mr Zyskowicz and others, you are talking about the social reform as if you had not read the opinions which the committees have made in the meantime since the government's spending limits had been held. The Committee on Finance, but in particular the Committee on Audit, will become a crushing criticism of these social welfare calculations. There will certainly be an additional cost of 3 billion than 3 billion savings, and the problem is that, in any case, this money will be gone. If they are not out of the social services, they are out of other services, other important reforms that Finland should make. And the problem is that you have done this cow trade and still not all these stages.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u101	Mr President! That is where Minister Orpo was talking about the Constitutional Committee and about having taken a position in the Constitutional Committee on funding or calculations — somehow I understood that, and I hope that you will. After all, all we could have done there was bring this in, wait for your statements and see if they went through. But in our group talk the Finns had this idea of being close to man, and this has now been raised by us Finns. We have received a lot of contacts from farmers and we would now like a response from the government. There's not much concrete in here. Here the development fund for the top project ends now at the end of this year, and much can be read in the papers about the plight of farmers and farmers. This will result in the treatment of animals remaining, in neglect, in animal welfare crimes, in the health of children. We were all just at the Midsummer celebration and rushed into the countryside with joy, but it won't stay there by itself. So what are we going to do about our agriculture?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u102	Mr President! Yes, this budgetary plan lacks one opinion and lacks a very important opinion. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has not said a word about this plan, and this has never happened before. This budgetary planning period extends from 2019 to 2022, and the social and health reform should also enter into force on this time horizon, but it is now not taken into account at all in this plan. It is also a huge economic reform, and I find it totally irresponsible for the government not to assess the impact of this social reform, and it has also been heard here by the members of the Committee on Finance and Finance. The economic equation of this social reform is also impossible. You are making a social model which increases the cost of public finances, but at the same time you are going to save on social costs. I think it just sounded to me, Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u103	Mr President! It seems a little that there are representatives of the different government parties in this Chamber than in those committees, because the report by the Committee on Finance, for example, speaks critically of the many risks to our future. I am concerned that things are going well now, but we see that the art is coming. What are the means of preparation for us to prepare ourselves for that fold? It seems that social welfare will increase our costs, and if, as a result, the social and regional reform takes place, we will have growth services in the provinces that should create that future growth, but there will be no money left in them with this model. Would you, Minister of Finance, be prepared to consider ensuring that those resources for growth services are secured under all circumstances, because they are the ones that are building that skilled workforce, ensuring that the workforce is sufficient in the future and building the employment that is keeping this country up? And I would also like to see attention paid to what Mr Ihalainen said earlier here:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u104	Mr President! At the same time as the wealth of the citizens has increased, the fins of the opposition’s parliamentarians are clearly impoverished. Congressman Lindtman, you said we were living in the fog, heading for the fog. It is, of course, a question of perspective, but if you look at the last parliamentary term, there was no fog during your term of government, everyone saw that we were going towards the iceberg, and fortunately, the efforts of this government were able to translate at the last minute and bring about employment and economic growth. And all the key objectives which you said a few years ago, Mr Lindtman, are absolutely incomprehensible and unrealistic from the government. They are not: nearly 90,000 jobs and over 50,000 more in the last year. I have some very important questions. I am, of course, pleased that Mr Kankaanniemi says what I have said all along that the Finns of Peru were doing the cuts that this government has made, just as they have been blue. Now that has also been established. And I have to say, the biggest enemy of the demos seems to be the demos themselves. With left-wing populism, you won't win the election.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u105	Mr President! I will come back to the debate on inequality, which Mr Gustafsson in particular outlined here. I also believe that this fight against inequality is an important part of the development of our society in the long run, and it is really important for many reasons, not least because it safeguards social peace. But if we look at what has been achieved now in this government, then we will achieve this goal of 110,000 new jobs, and that is what will reduce the inequality most of all, that people with low incomes, whether unemployed or students, will get a job and get through it in their lives. Typically, the income of a person who gets a full-time job, but who is a significant part of it, improves by EUR 1 000 a month, and that is a huge thing for him and his family. So now, if ever, we have worked to eradicate inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u106	Mr President! When Mr Kalli, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, presented this budgetary plan for the following years, he expressed the committee's common concern about the financing of transport networks for the coming years. This is a good point that it is unanimous. After all, we are now seeing an increase in this correction debt, which has been allocated EUR 1.3 billion for basic infrastructure management and will fall to EUR 1 billion for the next 19, 20 and 21 years, Mr Minister of Finance. And then these development projects: You too come from a region with a strong, growing export industry. Development projects for transport networks would be needed. Over the next four years, these development projects will fall by EUR 100 million. It is extremely important that a long-term plan, a 12-year plan on how we should take these development projects forward, can be drawn up together in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u107	Mr President! Several speakers have expressed concern that the committees have not taken a position on this aspect of the financing of social reform. But the Finance Committee is. Experts have been consulted, and this is one of its central tasks. Other committees have other tasks in the field of social protection and should focus on them. A number of speakers have raised concerns about the agricultural situation, as have Mr Reijonen's group speech in the centre. We all know that the agricultural situation is extremely difficult, and that is why I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry for, among other things, launching a project last week to find a solution to the plight of agriculture. These road projects, which Mrs Wallin has just mentioned here, are very important. It would therefore be important for next year's budget to return this additional EUR 300 million to basic infrastructure management, because otherwise we in industry and forestry will not achieve the objectives that have been set.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u108	Mr President! It is as if we were vilified here, as if we in the opposition were not able to appreciate this improved economic situation and improved employment. It's not like that. We can rejoice that more and more Finns are getting away with the job, that investments have started and that exports are pulling. This is an excellent thing, and it is largely a question of increased demand on the world market, Finland benefits from the recovery of the euro area, and this is an excellent thing for all of us. But the question is how we will head for the future, how we will strengthen the sustainable growth of the future. As Mr Ihalainen wisely said earlier, the question is that we are facing bad years of low growth. How do we expect to do that? Unfortunately, in the spending limits debate, Mr Orpo, your structural reforms are shining by their absence. And, in fact, it seems that the social welfare reform, the only structural reform in which we are all putting all our energy here today, is a reverse sign: it does not reduce but increases costs. Yes, we should now turn the food towards the future and carry out structural reforms such as this one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u109	Mr President! There have been concerns about inequality and poverty. That is precisely what we need to worry about in this Chamber, because if we allow this society to become unequal and allow some people to fall into poverty, it will harm their own personal lives but, above all, our society's ability to function and the chance that everyone will be able to get to work. Investing in education is the key. That is why this government has cut a great deal, and the minor improvements that have now been made to it are not going to change that. But the second is that the poorest, those sick, those long-term unemployed with small pensions, those who are unable to work have been cut the most, and this means that they are falling into an ever larger poverty trap. We already have over 900,000 people in Finland who live in poverty, and small cosmetic changes do not immediately help, but we now need to raise basic security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u110	Mr President! This debate has often referred to this elephant that exists in this room, which is linked to the reform of social and health care and its economic impact. The worst part is that no one has the slightest idea what size this elephant is. This has been noted by a large number of experts, but also by the Parliament’s Finance Committee, which stated in its own opinion: ‘There is no overall assessment of the effects of the reform at the level of the abovementioned scenarios’. Now we are looking for a sign for an open bill, and then we are pious about responsible financial management on many other issues. Now, the direct comment to the Minister for Finance is that when you talk a lot about all the other proposals that come from the various groups, please at least keep them clear of what they are going to cost. No one has any idea about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u111	Mr President! I would now like to see honesty in this debate and away from unnecessary nonsense populism. It would be reasonable for those who have done almost everything in their power to prevent an increase in employment to not be very enthusiastic about the increase in employment or those who have approved the Kiki agreement themselves not to criticise the details contained in it or the consequences of their own decisions in the past, such as green cuts in education and training. Continued complaints about these same things that have been complained about for years, this lashing out, undermines the credibility of Parliament. We would respect each other and the citizens by talking constructively about ways forward. Such means have been set out in the group talk of the Finns of Peru. Let's do those shows. It is also good that, in addition to the Finns of Finland, there is now another voice of reason in this House, when Mr Väyrynen mentioned the importance of the euro in terms of the weakness of Finland's past economic growth and, in particular, the risk that the euro and euro membership will bring to Finland's economy and growth in the future. We must take into account the option that the euro area will fall apart in whole or in part, but the next euro crisis will come in any case in the next few years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u112	Mr President! I have been here in Parliament during Prime Minister Lipponen's time, and I also remember the days of Kalevi Sorsa, and I have now stayed to ask whether the SDP's economic policy line is what Mr Harakka is proposing here in his speech. That also ended with the phrase that the most patriotic thing that could be done now is to bring down the war. But I also drew attention to these last five points, as did the Minister of Finance, Orpo. I have noticed that there are concerns among business and business about whether this solution will only increase taxes in such a tough competitive situation and how well-being and these low incomes can be taken into account if the economy starts again in a negative spiral. So I ask President Rinne: is the Haraka line the responsible SDP line?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a few more comments, and then Minister Orpo will also receive a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u114	Mr President! It is true that employment has improved somewhat, but we still have quite a lot, far too much, the long-term unemployed and the exclusion caused by this kind of unemployment. One good opportunity that the government has not used properly is the employment of these long-term unemployed in associations. This is where you get your job and stay in this society cycle and then you do a little better in life. In this situation, I am concerned that from the previous year, when I looked at the transfer appropriations, there are 207 million unused long-term unemployment funds. I think it is a strange situation at this stage, when the government has tightened up the situation of the unemployed in all the world's active models, but the means of reducing and breaking unemployment and long-term unemployment have not been sought and have not improved the opportunities for these unemployed people to gain temporary employment, even in order to maintain their working capacity. That is what I want an answer to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u115	Mr President! It was precisely the case that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was put into a social welfare act. We were not able to make a statement on this budgetary plan at all, and yet the impact of the social welfare reform on public finances is uncertain, they have not been reported to us. We know that problems can be expected in the regional economy, for example. Where on earth are we going to get the cost savings of $3 billion? They are applied for from people, they are applied for from care, they are also applied for from staff. There is a huge staff bingo going on in the staffing field because workers are afraid of their jobs. At the same time, there is also going to be a pay harmonisation that will certainly bring comfort to the situation of a low-paid nurse. In what way do you ensure that staff will have jobs in the future? It is precisely the number of medical personnel and the need to safeguard them that are involved in the statement of objections from the True Finns. I hope you hear it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u116	Mr President! I do not understand much about these elephants myself, but I do understand that if something is shared and all those good services require money, someone must first get that money. I believe that the economic policy line of the Coalition Party has been quite clear for many years. We are determined to assume that corporate taxation must be competitive. During the last period, a reduction in corporation tax was made to 20%. Then we believe that unit labour costs should be internationally competitive. For his part, kiky helped. After that, we believe that there should be a functioning infrastructure in the country, as fast as the lower road network. And Mrs Wallin has intervened here quite rightly that there are now 300 to 400 million missing from 19, 20 and 21 years, and Mr President, this has to be corrected in some way, because the road network in the country is deteriorating more quickly, as the studies show.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u117	Mr President! It should be remembered that since 2010, the global economy grew strongly from the financial crisis at a rate of good 2% per year. But this government has raised the Finnish swamp to a supporting surface. Of course, we are not fortune tellers of what will be in the future, but a few years ago we had a debate on the decades of digitality and technology, which will then be the share of man and work. We constantly need a new workforce and a variety of trainings, and we need more cooperation between universities and industry. No quarrels will improve Finland’s cause. Then, if you do not know enough about this war to know how much work has already been done in many provinces, then I ask: what if this is to be rejected? The next government's gonna start doing another war thing. That's as good as it gets. And the last thing I want to do is defend Minister Soini. He has Christian values, and I wish we all had Christian values. That's the only value that lasts today in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u118	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Mr Reijos, Mr Heinos and Mr Rinne, and just after Mr Rinte's speech, Minister Orvo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u119	Mr President! The government has been consistent in that it has been talking a lot about experimental culture from the outset. In my previous job, I trained a culture of experimentation, which means I know a lot about it. It is a good method for testing limited issues. However, in the Sote reform, the government intends to make the whole country a trial platform at once, even though almost all experts warn that it will cost money and the risk of failure is high. The lack of impact assessments on such a big issue is a very serious mistake. Mr President! In my opinion, piloting by the government has also been a bit strangely understood. Piloting is testing a new issue, evaluating the experiment with a research approach and drawing conclusions — and then moving to a conclusion. Sote pilots for the government seem not to be a priori intervention of the decisions taken. This is a questionable course of action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u120	Mr President! The Centre considers it important that we have the courage to reform and shape structures in a changing world, and this is what the government has done now, and it is reflected in economic growth. Mr Sem had a very constructive speech. I would point out that the number of long-term unemployed has fallen by 30,000 per year, and this is the result of this economic growth that has made it possible for companies to take up jobs even more, and I think that is a very good thing. I believe that the Social Democrats have had two very constructive speeches: Representative Ihalainen raised the productivity of this work. It is very important because it is the only way to achieve economic growth, and as an entrepreneur at least, I see that all responsible entrepreneurs are starting to look after the well-being of the staff, which was also raised by Mr Ihalainen. That is where we will get more of this economic growth, and I think it is extremely important. Mrs Wallin raised the transport networks and, as I said in my own speech, it was necessary to ensure adequate funding for transport networks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u121	Mr President! In the Committee on Finance, social reform was discussed for quite a long time when it became clear that freedom of choice was actually possible without further efforts. This was revealed by the memo of the highest official in the Ministry of Finance, which assessed the savings and expenditure potential. At the moment, it is the low incomes, many families with children, the unemployed and pensioners who are up to four weeks in line for doctors, and at the same time those who are able to afford or work are going to miss the queue and get access to a doctor through freedom of choice. This now changes when the freedom of choice of a few is made a fundamental right of everyone. And I am surprised that Mrs Harakka, who has also attended the meetings, is opposed to the social and health reform that will remove medical waiting lists in this country and will also allow the low-income, unemployed,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u122	Mr President! To Mr Ala-Nissilä, I would like to say briefly — and this is true for Mr Heinos — that, when you are a professional auditer, you know that this social reform would not be a discharge for the government, that is the contradiction between those objectives and the end result that experts have assessed. But, Minister, Mr Orpo, there are other costs to this war. The total cost of change is in some way unbudgeted, in some way not included in the budgetary plan. This involves not only change costs but also customer shift costs. It is estimated that an additional EUR 700 million — EUR 1 billion — will come from wage harmonisation alone. Now you have budgeted EUR 1 billion per year for public finance plans that are going to take place over many years, for these aircraft that have not been the subject of a procurement decision. At the moment, we are already experimenting and piloting this social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u123	And before the Minister's speech, Mr Kalli, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u124	Mr President! This social reform and the opinion of the Committee on Finance on it to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health: less has been said about the potential, more has been said about the risks only, that all these risks would come true: For example, wage harmonization: The expert estimates show a fork of between 20 and 700 million. For example, expert Aki Lindén noted that when he was head of the Hospital District of Varsinais-Suomi, it was impossible to carry out wage harmonization. So this is a longer-term matter, and it is not necessarily bad for people who do the same work to receive the same salary. The second is what are the benefits of the national economy when it is possible to guarantee people faster access to the doctor in order to receive the treatment they need. This will increase patient safety and so on. And thirdly,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u125	Minister Orphan, three minutes, and let's hope that's enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u126	Mr. Speaker! So, Mr Rinne, do you now have anything against those fighter acquisitions, have we not unanimously approved them here? I thought it was a rather unusual way to express this. But of course, in time, a line of assessment will be taken into the framework, which will lead to a reduction in the cost of 3 billion at 29 levels. In my opinion, Mr Kalli responded well to this wage harmonisation. And in fact, if I have understood the model of the SDP correctly, it is also based on larger areas, and there will also be wage harmony. It is in front of all the social reform models that are on the horizon. If nothing is done, then we have the Haraka model, we have a road to the completely unknown. We will then be at the mercy of these large international companies — seeing what kind of outsourcing is already taking place in various parts of Finland. But then a few comments: At the time, Congressman Kiuru asked about the transfer tax. It is not one of the favorite taxes, but it is right to note that its accumulation is about 800 million. It cannot simply be removed, so a solution should then be found, for example, by cutting sales profit taxes accordingly. It is certainly not easy, but it certainly affects people's mobility and the trading of housing, the dynamics of the economy. I have to pay tribute to Mr Vähämäki's list of five points, that was a good one. It was forward looking, it had new ideas, and it is precisely this type of speech that we should all, of course, be able to do more, we should look ahead. And now there is room for looking forward when the economy is in good shape. Employment is increasing and indebtedness is decreasing. Now you can look forward more already, there is no need for further cuts at the moment, which is an excellent thing. I think that we should all be pleased that we have 100,000 fewer unemployed people or, in fact, 100,000 more jobs than when the government started. Mr Filatov mentioned growth services. I think the best growth service is if our companies grow and serve people through it. But, of course, there is also a need for public employment services. More money has been allocated to them. We currently have more people in active activities than we did a year ago, and now we have an increase in the budget of 60 million skilled workers, all of which help people who are unemployed and also companies to gain employment. More than one speaker raised the issue of transport. Yes, I believe that a 12-year development plan should be drawn up, that we should do the parliamentary work and that we should consider what the most essential things are, but at the same time we should resolve this package of funding. We have huge projects that we need to find a model for. At the same time, we have a debt of repair. This is a big equation that requires us to work together, and it's a post-election job. The problems of agriculture are very well known at the moment. I think the two most important things are that we get a good CAP solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate with less than ten speeches and then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u128	Mr President! Minister Orphan, I hope that you did not deliberately misunderstand. On the contrary, I am certainly not opposed to the procurement of fighters. On the contrary, it is responsible to put the procurement of fighters in the public finance plan in the way they have been put there. The question is: why have the known social costs not been put here in the public finance plan? There are two figures alone: 600 million for customer transfers — it is quite a common figure accepted by experts — and 700 million euros for wage harmonisation at the lower limit. It has EUR 1.3 billion of permanent expenditure in relation to the future. Why are they not reflected in your budgetary plan? This is a very simple question to which I hope a clear answer, because good economics, fair economics, do put within the budgetary plan the figures that are known.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u129	Mr President! After all, it has been a matter of fundamental importance for Finland that we have been freed from the recession that has plagued us for a long time, and we have seen in this parliamentary term how the proper management of the economy works: 100,000 more jobs, 30,000 more long-term unemployed people have got a job, the finances of the municipalities are on solid foundations. I do not remember whether there are currently any crisis groups, there may be a couple, but in any case the public finances are doing well. Last season we went in the wrong direction for EUR 38 billion in public finances, which is inevitably proof that if we do not manage the public finances ourselves, it will not be managed by the market forces. Yes, it is up to us to do so and, as Prime Minister Sipilä has said, it is necessary to achieve the current employment target of 72%, which will be achieved by the way, and the next government, whatever colour or size, must reach 75%. It is the way in which public finances are managed and, above all, the personal lives of these people. Getting to work is really hard, and it's worth fighting for.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u130	Mr President! It is quite strange that the Minister of Finance does not respond properly to the criticism of social welfare. He simply states that we are aiming at cost savings of EUR 3 billion, but he is not talking about what is the reality, because he knows that these cost calculations have not been made, and it is obviously not of interest to the Coalition Party and the Minister. President! The Committee on Finance adopted an opinion on the costs of freedom of choice. It was stunning. It was also voted for by the most loyal warriors in the government. They're here, Heinonen, Congressman Rossi, too. You accepted the paper that knocks out the financial aspects of this proposal because there have not been any, and now here you are saying that there is some potential savings and so forth. You were there when we didn't take the Hetemäe paper because it was unrealistic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u131	Mr President! It is necessary that we look to the future now, and in the face of this growth, we should be prepared to ensure that industry and the labour market do not just reform quickly in the present. We have encountered areas where unemployment is increasing significantly as jobs fall. Then, on the other hand, we have areas where we suddenly have needs. We need to focus on the problem of confrontation. In particular, we need to promote the possibility of apprenticeship training through some new instruments, such as the introduction of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and Through the Education Fund, a certain wage subsidy for those who, let us say, are in the condition of their ability to work but could still teach apprentices at work to know and to work, even if it is combined with pension institutions which then prefer to work for people when it comes to lighter jobs and the transfer of skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u132	Mr President! Listening to Mrs Haraka’s speech on the five - point program of the demares, an old working song came to mind about how to make the roses bloom. It was really good that the finance minister Orpo reminded the demars that what about your black five-point list. You are in the process of tightening the taxation of entrepreneurs, you are in the process of tightening the taxation of companies, you are in the process of tightening the taxation of middle- and high-income employees. Do you think, Mr Harakka, that such tax increases have no negative impact on economic dynamics and efficiency? Then, President, I would like to say to the Greens that, when you decided, in the correct decision of the assembly, to demand that the training cuts made by the current government be cancelled, you will certainly know from the accounts this FIFO principle ‘first, first’. I ask why you do not insist that the training cuts made during your time be cancelled first. And, Congressman Emma Kari, if you could tell me more about those owl photos.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u133	I would now like to give my answer to the honourable Members at this stage of the debate, Mrs Harakka, Mr Paloniemi, Mr Kankaanniemi and Mr Räsänen, and then give an assessment of the need.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u134	Mr President! After all, the issue of low and middle-income employees is shared by both Minister Orpo and the SDP. I draw attention to the fact that when these holiday allowance cuts were made on the public side, those who are on average and better off earn are not going to get what they lose in terms of tax reductions. So this is how the middle class under the leadership of the assembly is disciplined, the taxes increase. There were two representatives and one minister who untruely quoted my speeches. These are easy to check in the parliamentary minutes to their shame. We need a lot of dirt, but one that Finland can afford. The next government can implement one that focuses solely on social reform. On two occasions, one hundred experts have informed the Committee on Finance that this government's social welfare model is more likely to generate an additional cost of EUR 3 billion than savings — factors such as VATT, Etla, Aalto University, Economic Policy Evaluation Council. At least these should now be taken into account in the budgetary plan and look at where this expenditure comes from. Together with Mrs Rinte, we have been going through the items where the expenditure will come from, and it is quite clear that these hundreds of millions of dollars will result.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u135	Mr President! As Mr Kalli said earlier, the opposition does not want to see at all the potential of the social reform that lies in it. Nor have I heard of the opposition in particular the alternative that, if this social reform is now brought down, it will be blocked to death, as the opposition wants, then what happens next. Finland is still greying at the world record rate, the birth rate is still very low, the dependency ratio is very low, and, at the same time, the need for services, as we all know, is growing strongly and social spending is rising at a steep angle. We now need to reform the war after decades of boating. What choice do you have? This model has been approved by the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u136	Mr President! First of all, concern about the situation in agriculture and transport investment: it is really so serious that it should also be taken seriously by the government. As far as war is concerned, almost everywhere the regions have done a very far-reaching, good, wide-ranging job, and I am 100% sure that if Parliament rejects this unacceptable model of freedom of choice-market, then the provinces will implement a sensible, self-interested and well-interested social reform on the basis of a joint municipal assembly at first instance and can then be developed from it. The unanimous part of the Committee on Finance, that is to say, the opinion, and then the objection, does have serious concerns that this freedom of choice will lead to an increase in costs. You should all read it and take it very seriously. There is a long list of uncertain issues that mean an increase in costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u137	Mr President! This report has been accompanied by a number of objections which have been raised here, but I am surprised that the speeches of the government parties avoid the concern which is also expressed in these very unanimous texts and unanimous statements. For example, the opinion of the Audit Committee states that there is considerable uncertainty about the future expenditure development of public finances in the assessment of the cost implications of the major reforms under way and, therefore, the need for future financing. In particular, reference is made to this society, stating that in the planning period there will probably be a much greater need for funding than foreseen in the spring of 2018. I hope that these too, quite honestly, will be discussed here and will also be considered in the speeches made by the representatives of the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u138	Mr President! That speech was very clarifying. I too would have liked to say that I am a little confused that Mrs Heinonen has probably already forgotten the unanimous part of the opinion of the Committee on Finance in this matter over the last few weeks, in which these great uncertainties about cost factors were explicitly highlighted in very loud terms. Minister Orphan, I must say that the elephant is here. It is haunted here, and the craziest thing is that it should still be bought in a bag, i.e. without information about what the elephant costs, even though the contents of the bag are not as attractive as they are. But, President-in-Office, I still think that when we talk here about these values and the lines of the various parties, I am looking a little in the direction of the coalition. There's plenty of money there to make a coalition policy. Lowering the taxation of millions of inheritances, reducing the taxation of the wealthiest pharmacists, reducing the taxation of forest talent, and then here the city centre with a glamour to defend
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u139	Mr President! We have to refer to these costs of the socks. The regional model itself is not a problem, although it is part of this cow trade. The problem is this market model, i.e. this model of freedom of choice, which does not only entail transitional costs but brings enormous permanent costs. For example, in the field of oral health care, Mr Finance Minister, it has been estimated that, by 30, the cumulative additional costs will be EUR 5 billion, EUR 5 billion, precisely because of these customer transfers, because — I do not remember whether it was 1.5 million customers whose oral health care is currently being paid by insurance companies themselves — it comes to the taxpayer, the Minister of Finance, EUR 5 billion cumulatively by 30, estimated by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities' expert opinion to the Committee on Finance. You would think it would be worrying when we talk about the sustainability gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u140	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Laiho and then to the Minister for 3 minutes, and then we will move on to the list of speakers. This is a period of more than 2 hours. The entire paragraph of this Rules of Procedure has been used for 2.5 hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u141	Mr President! When you listen to a number of opposition speeches, you get the impression that the whole welfare society is at risk here and that the government is being accused of increasing inequality and whenever. But when you look at the facts, that's not true. Social reform has also received criticism here. But we know that the social welfare reform will, however, provide the means to slow down the growth of social welfare spending, since it will replace 190 social welfare organisers in 18 provinces, it will support productivity, and so will centralized ict and real estate administration. Social welfare reform improves equality and the ability of people to influence where they want to obtain services, such as medical services, or in which nursing home they want to spend the rest of their lives if the need for care so requires. Of course, the funding law alone is not enough; good implementation and a shared commitment to this massive project are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u142	One more thing, Mr. Secretary. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u143	Mr President! I have the impression that if we look at the different social models of all the parliamentary parties, we all have these larger areas as a basis. And when they are larger regions, they operate on an electoral basis, as required by the Constitutional Committee last term, that is to say, the basic solution is the same for all. Where there is a difference is the share of freedom of choice, and when it is built responsibly, it cannot be that, then, in your opinion, this whole model would be somehow indecent. And when that share of freedom of choice is still managed responsibly, then it will be the same entity that you have painted in larger areas. I do not understand why your model is capable of achieving the savings and good care chains needed, how can it be achieved, but in the model presented by us, the government, it is not? Representative Laiho well went through these stronger areas: we can take advantage of ict, farm management to do more sensible work, care chains and then the element of freedom of choice: people get to be treated in line and get to choose the medical station they go to, and pay the same price for the public and private. [Heckling] And at least I can tell you that every social welfare and health professional in Finland has a job. The need for care is increasing enormously, and at the same time we have retirement: everyone has work to do. Perhaps the number of people who work in the private sector or in the third sector will increase, but I think there is nothing wrong with that. I think there are 70,000 good Finnish employees working in the private and third sectors today. Today we already have a market inside the production of social and health services. You give such a picture as if this private production were an abomination. You do not understand that when the public sector, the province, has the power of decision and the money,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u144	The list of speakers, Congressman Väyrynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u145	Mr President! This smaller elephant has taken away almost the entire conversation. For the Finnish economy, a much more important issue, the question of Finland's membership of the euro, did not receive such attention in this debate — perhaps later. This House has not wanted to discuss the euro. I did the right thing with the citizens' initiative, collected over 53,000 signatures for the citizens' initiative, which would create a debate in Parliament on Finland's membership of the euro area. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already drawn up a draft report, it has been started, and then a political decision has been taken not to make a report. The matter was not brought to the large Chamber for discussion and vote. Now that I'm here, I'm trying to get that conversation out of here. Mr Jaskari spoke about the fact that Finland's poor economic performance compared to Sweden is due to reasons other than the euro. There are other reasons for this, these Finnish rigidities, but if we had not been involved in the euro area and had had greater economic independence, we could have survived these difficulties more or less as well as Sweden. After all, the current government — and not the previous government — has not implemented its evil savings, but because the economy has not grown, there has been less growth, while Sweden has been reformed and increased expenditure when the economy has grown. This budgetary plan is on a very fragile basis, as it can be considered quite certain that the next major financial crisis will be in sight over the next four years, which will be a major test of the sustainability of the euro area. Minister Orpo spoke kindly, answered my question. He's not here anymore. This is how it always goes. [Heckling] Two other things: The cost of defense is increasing. Finland is now very strongly involved in different international crisis management. Its costs are so high that even the Minister of Defence suggested that the participation of women in military service should be temporarily considered. Now Finland is in the European Union committing itself much harder to crisis management than it has done so far. In fact, Finland is a leading country in the process of promoting, alongside France, the development of defence cooperation and the construction of a common defence. There are great costs and also great risks. And how does this serve the national security of Finland, you should ask. I think this is the wrong kind of security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u146	Mr President! It is still extremely regrettable to note that when I listen to the Group speeches by the SDP and the Greens, it makes me feel almost unreal as far as the reality is concerned, which is actually living in Finnish society, workplaces, businesses and everywhere in Finland where the economy is growing, employment is improving, compared with what was heard here. It can be said that drama and drama were included in these speeches, but very economical was with the truth. Of course, it is not surprising that representatives of the Harakka and the Salmon are on different lines, because they also represent different species in politics, as in animal society. So to the surprise of the SDP, the magpie went against the current here, not the salmon. There seems to be no reform of the SDP or any improvement in Finnish society. Intelligently dishonest was the criticism of green educational cuts. When the last government was making savings of EUR 260 million in secondary vocational education, Minister Ville Niinistö defended them in Parliament in 2013 as follows: ‘The package includes good reforms but also difficult decisions. However, they are necessary to ensure services and the future of the welfare society.” Now here the Greens paint horror scenarios about how the government is driving down the Finnish education system when it has made 70 million smaller cuts in secondary education than what Niinistö defended last season. But I confess: those cuts have also been difficult and certainly too large, and perhaps they have also been made in the wrong order, taking into account this second-degree reform. It might have been worth doing first and then going to operate. [Heckling] I am also disappointed that the social democrats here are now stigmatising the fact that the competitiveness pact and the holiday wage cut are Sipilä's fault and he has driven them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u147	Mr President! Current economic growth would enable the government to correct two major weak points in its economic policy, but unfortunately there does not seem to be much corrective action coming. Firstly, the government's economic policy leaves a huge number of people out of growth and misery in their lives. The government's index freezes cut basic security by EUR 250 million per year. Unemployment benefit was first cut by EUR 200 million in 2017, and this year an active model cutter struck. Travel and medical expenses have been cut by EUR 50 million and customer fees have been increased by EUR 150 million. In total, social security has been weakened and service charges have been increased by more than EUR 700 million. The increase in minimum sickness and parental allowances, the increase in the guarantee pension and the small reduction in the medical ceiling decided on in the context of the budgetary plan will be necessary. However, they are only crumbs compared to previous cuts in social security. According to a social barometer published a couple of weeks ago, only a few percent of social welfare and health managers still believe that the government can reduce inequalities. The Council of Europe Committee also criticised Finland for its level of basic security. According to it, the Finnish State does not respect the social rights guaranteed by the Charter. In Finland, for example, unemployment security is too low as it falls below the poverty line and does not cover all the basic needs of the beneficiaries. From what the Minister of Finance has said, one can conclude from the government's idea: let the poor wait. Another weakness of the government's economic policy is its failure to strengthen growth and employment in the long term. Cuts in education, research and product development reduce the ability of the economy to regenerate and reduce the potential for productivity growth. The additional EUR 50 million promised in the budgetary plan for the education sector will in no way compensate for a total reduction of around EUR 1 billion. Mr President! The government does not seem to understand that investing in knowledge, well-being and education is investment in the future. They strengthen activity and the structures of society. At the same time, they will strengthen public finances by strengthening employment and reducing the cost of addressing social problems. In the long term, neglecting these social investments will cost society a great deal of money. The opinion of the Committee on the Future of the European Union on the budgetary plan stresses that, as the usual budgetary planning at a reasonable short-term point of view is underestimated, the investment perspective is not being taken into account. In addition, a coherent policy that looks far enough to the future needs more versatile indicators and impact assessments to support planning than is usually used. We in the committee have emphasised in several opinions and in the report that budgetary planning needs to be developed in such a way that, at the same time as assessing the contribution of public administrations to GDP growth, we need to distinguish between public investment and the running costs of public administration. In budgetary plans and annual budgets, public investment and current public administration expenditure must be treated differently. What is essential is that short-term budgetary practices should not hinder or hinder the implementation of long-term investments. This applies not only to investments in welfare, education and infrastructure, but also to all other far-reaching policy measures. We should now finally realise that a new set of indicators is needed in addition to gross domestic product. It seems to be very difficult to introduce them. The Future Committee has therefore decided to launch a project in the autumn to pilot and evaluate the use of existing alternative indicators. Mr President! In addition to this, we need the pilots of phenomenon-based budgeting, where reforms are planned and implemented across the ministries and administrative boundaries to address the wide-ranging social problems. The current tight ministries' barriers and economic structures prevent the comprehensive implementation and implementation of new innovations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u148	Mr President! First of all, I propose that Parliament approve the proposal for a position contained in objection 6, i.e. the statement of the Finns of Fundamental Rights, which contains paragraph 27. In order for the honourable Members to know more or less what they are going to vote on, I will go over them briefly at least in general terms. As regards what the previous speaker referred to and concluded, we have the first position, namely to strengthen cross-sectoral cooperation between the central government, so that reforms covering society and public administration are carried out with care, efficiency and speed. Then we are concerned about the surge in government debt and other liabilities over the last few years. They can be found on pages 14 and 15 of the report. We are concerned that they pose a great risk to taxpayers for the future. Unfortunately, many of them relate to the EU and the euro, where the problems are also the greatest at the moment. Finland is still negotiating financial frameworks in the EU, and the EU is also conducting Brexit negotiations, and we expect the Finnish Government to pursue Finland's interests without compromising these negotiations. Furthermore, by the end of the year, the European Central Bank will be driving down a programme for the purchase of junk loans, which will inevitably result in higher interest rates, and the rise in interest rates will cause a wide range of problems for households, businesses and also the public sector. We need to prepare for these as well as we can now. We expect the government to strengthen extensive international political, economic, commercial and other cooperation with countries outside the EU, including non-alignment to promote peace and resolve conflicts. The well-being of families and the strengthening of our faith in the future are important, for example, in order to increase the birth rate, and we attach great importance to the assessment of the impact of children. We still want to reduce regional disparities in development in this country. They have grown again. Agriculture and the food industry and their jobs are under enormous threat. We expect the government to safeguard agriculture and the food economy in this country and to seek to put an end to the recycling of agricultural and cohesion funds through the EU. We expect the asylum policy action programme, which was adopted by the government three years ago, to be implemented. We want to keep the needs of the foreign labour force to the core. In order to promote education, research, development and innovation, additional efforts and centres of excellence need to be made in many regions in this country. In line with the guidelines of the Transport Network Working Group, the removal of the correction debt should be taken seriously. 300 million a year is the minimum, preferably the more. Wind power production subsidies must be driven down and invested in renewable energy sources such as bioethanol and sawing waste. The high level of housing production should be safeguarded, but at the same time the tax and other disadvantages and risks associated with mortgage loans should be eliminated. The overall reform of social security must be carried out with the aim of eliminating poverty and exclusion, targeting aid properly and increasing people's own activity and employment. The taxation of pensioners must be brought to the same level and the purchasing power of pensioners must be secured at the same level as that of employees. The reform of social welfare and health care must be carried out on the basis of the objectives originally set for it and abandoned by the government. I would like to mention here that the Finance Act will remain in force until the end of next year and will enable these privatisations to be addressed by the municipalities. Then there is a need for a high-quality reform in education, so that education is fully intensified. And lastly, the services of the ageing population must be secured in a very diverse way and in a way that respects their life's work at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u149	Mr President! At the outset, I could support the proposal made by Mrs Kari on the Greens' objection and the statements relating to it. And now to the speech. Mr President! I think I also said in that debate that the government once again had the opportunity to reverse the trend, to improve its policy, to reverse, for example, the cuts to education and research and to low-income Finns, but once again the government chose otherwise. This is a real disappointment, of course, but what is perhaps most relevant to this budgetary plan, or framework, is that there is not even a rough estimate of social costs. It's a disgrace. It's inconceivable. It has been frustrating in the Committee on Finance to sit when we do not know what the impact of social welfare reform on the frameworks is, and if we are talking about frameworks here, then there should be some assessment of this, otherwise it does not make sense to talk about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u154	Mr President! Firstly, I support the amendments tabled by Mr Uotila in response to his protest. The problem of labour matching is now real — right now — and there should be clearer views on this in the budgetary plan: how we will prepare in the future, now in this booming situation, when exports are pulling, how we will build new, functioning systems at the present time and ensure growth in public finances, too, when exports start to fade and we are no longer at the top of such a good delirium. These problems of encounter are real right now and will continue to be, because the change in the structures of working life is only accelerating because of artificial intelligence, digitality and increasing robotisation. We need flexibility and resources for conversion training. We must support apprenticeships, in particular to enable apprentices in the SME sector to study at work. One possibility might be to study pay subsidies through the United Training Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund for those professionals who could be able to learn in the workplace. It would be in line with both of these previous policies to produce money-based learning and thus to obtain agility and speed in conversion training. We must courageously consider the problem of hiring the first foreign worker, for example, with social security contributions being phased out so that, in the first year, the employer will be completely freed from it and, in the following years, this relief will be cut by a quarter at a time. At least, according to the Parliamentary Information Service, this would be cost-neutral in the first year if a young person who has been unemployed for 200 days or under 25 years had access to an employment relationship, a salary in accordance with a collective agreement. Our own research must be restored to the level at which it was before the budget cut. We are forced to invest more in higher education because we have seen — even though we have now had tens of thousands of people who went to polytechnics unemployed at this stage of change — that, in the light of statistics, their employment opportunities are better than those who do not have any education at all, for example, it must be our way. Only with research and high knowledge can we succeed in international competition. Well, there is a lot attached to this same debate to the removal of the need-to-access exercise, and reference has been made here to the experiences of Sweden. I think it is a little deliberate not to talk about the other side, which has been identified as increasing crime, job permits and the fact that jobs are already in saturated sectors, i.e. low-wage sectors, have become these people rather than the high-skilled jobs where they need to be. And then we must remember: start-ups can, at the moment, get experts in this country, and when we consider this availability exercise to be flexible here in our own country, we will not allow bottlenecks to arise, I believe that these instruments will make progress. It is rather unfortunate that we are talking here about 100,000 new jobs, but at the same time, fortunately, we are also talking about the increase in long-term unemployment. We are aware that the Kiki agreement extended working hours 24 hours a year. Not for those who have it mentioned in the employment contract, of course, but there is no need for a very large mathematician to have these work opportunities gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u155	Värderade Talman! Jag hoppas verklgen att sittande regering, men också kommande regeringar verklogenläser det kulturutskottet har sagt om vikten av satsningar på utbildning i alla dess former, på forskning, innovationer och utveckling. Det är i och för sig ingenting now att vi så kraftigt tar ställning för de långsiktiga heletsmässiga lösningarna. Många andra instanser, Oberoende talar vi om OECD, talar vi om EU, talar vi om ekonomiska rådet ramma i Finland, alla säger momma sak. Ska Finland i fortsättningen också kunna vara ett exportland som har ög kunskap i oika frågor och därmed också kan omsätta den raikapen i arbetsplatser och kattepengar, måste vi satsa mer på utbildning, forskning, innovationer i framtiden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u156	Mr President! That is where I support Mr Räsänen's protest 5. The growth of the Finnish economy is a cause for joy for the whole population, although the common good brought by economic growth is not divided into the joy of the whole population. This is a significant gap in this budgetary plan and framework. The measures proposed for social security are a step in the right direction but are insufficient. I therefore hope that, during the next parliamentary term, we will be able to carry out a comprehensive reform of social security in which every Finn could feel that the common good and common return of this nation could be more evenly distributed among all. The indebtedness of the state and, in particular, the indebtedness of private citizens is extremely worrying. Concerns about mortgage loans to housing companies are also relevant. When we consider the answer to contain mortgages, it is important to separate from these loans the so-called refurbishment loans, renovation loans and renovation loans which are essential for maintaining the value of houses and safeguarding the value of property, and the conditions for obtaining these loans should not be tightened because they are in our common interest. On the other hand, improvements in the conditions for legal action relating to the work of the Legal Committee are important. We are particularly pleased that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman will have sufficient resources to carry out his new duties, and that at last a significant decision on the funding of Pelso Prison was reached and two prisons will enter the Oulu area. This has been a long-standing process, and now, I would like to say it publicly and aloud, I do acknowledge to the government that this matter has now been concluded and that this will no longer be on our agenda during the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u159	Mr. Speaker! Just over three years ago. At the time of the government negotiations in Sipilä, the economic assessment was much more gloomy than it is at the moment. Hardly anyone could see three years from now, that is, how well economic development is going, both the international economy and the government's own economic and financial decisions. There is no point in anyone actually arguing about who has brought about this rise. This has been achieved by Finnish employees, entrepreneurs, Finland together. Finland has also been the goal of the city centre, and that is not the end of the day. It will go on, it will go on largely for the next decades, but once growth has been achieved, we will have so-called hard ground below. Economic indicators are currently looking positive in all sectors. The only thing that still worries me is government debt. The indebtedness of public finances must always be taken seriously. However, when it is estimated that in 2022, or at the end of the next parliamentary term, the level of government debt will rise to that level of EUR 115 billion, we must ask ourselves whether we can afford it too. When the opposition expresses a great deal of sadness as the elections approach the elimination of former cuts, savings and new expenditure increases, this means, in practice, the continuation and intensification of that debt. Now, with government measures, indebtedness has been more or less contained. For our part, our demographic development will put pressure on that development again, but above all, we need measures to increase our gross domestic product, increase employment and then get the right measures, so that the tax revenue of the state will increase and therefore be able to reduce that debt. It is easy to say that debt can only be taken, but it must also be remembered that it is always paid for by future generations. As they always say here, children and grandchildren pay for it. It's a fact. Mr. Speaker! For its part, the Committee on Finance has been critical of a wide range of points of view and has therefore also wanted to see a number of measures included in the committee's opinion, six different points requiring measures. These include issues relating to growth, employment, access to labour. These include research, innovation and education. These include issues relating to infrastructure, matters relating to improving the conditions for agriculture, and also social security funding, of which there is much talk — whether there is savings, whether they are cost cuts or, in the opinion of some, even cost increases. When the Committee on Finance, on its part, dealt with this social reform and the related cost accounting, it is clear that no one will be able to say for sure what figures will be in the next two parliamentary periods or, for example, ten years. It is clear, however, that, as the current information technology advances, as the ict systems merge, we will be able to achieve a clear saving potential. Are they EUR 3 billion or are they the size of the EUR 4.6 billion proposed by the Ministry of Finance, or are they perhaps even larger, the time will appear, but it is also clear that, if nothing is done, the costs will go faster and, at the same time, the private health market will grow and the public sector will suffer from this. That is why decisions are needed. It is desirable, therefore, if someone in Parliament is holding back the war, that at the latest the foot should be taken off that brake. It is a collective defeat for all, and I am sure that even the new Members of Parliament during the next parliamentary term will not like the fact that they will then resume the process of social reform. Mr. Speaker! Finally, I should like to mention the issue of infrastructure. The Committee on Finance has also taken a very clear position so that the EUR 300 million proposed by this parliamentary working group for improving transport networks in relation to basic infrastructure management could also be implemented during the 2019-21 period of this budgetary plan. This is undoubtedly a common interest for Finland as a whole, so that our accessibility, the competitiveness of our business and thus our national sustainability can be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u160	Mr President! The hard language of politics may be entertaining, but it certainly does not improve the state of the economy. However, a number of economic experts have been in line with government policy and with the report by the Committee on Finance on the budgetary plan. Many of the government's economic policy objectives are on the way, although much criticism has been heard today from the opposition in this Chamber. The Committee on Finance considers fiscal policy in line with the budgetary plan to be quite correct in relation to the economic cycle. Another key message from the committee is that economic growth still does not provide grounds for increasing public spending. Good cyclical developments will not correct the sustainability gap in public finances, as growth in age-related expenditure will continue to increase rapidly until the 2030s. So there is no room for a light wallet to wave as the population ages and the working-age population shrinks. The challenges of ageing lie ahead of us. The growth in pension expenditure has accelerated since the retirement of the baby boomers. Expenditure on social and health care services is projected to increase clearly by 2030. The Commission last reminded us a month ago that we should reform our social security system. It is therefore quite remarkable that the demars here in their group address are strongly opposed to the progress of the social reform. It is the reform of social security that creates the means to slow down the growth of social security expenditure. The reform replaces 190 social welfare organisers in 18 provinces. It supports productivity, as well as a centralised ict system, property management, smoother management paths, wider shoulders. We have only just begun to improve the economic situation. General government finances are expected to be broadly balanced in 2022. The favourable economic situation alone is not sufficient to address the structural problems of public finances and the sustainability gap. There is a need for a reform of family leave, greater local reconciliation and a reduction in the tax burden on labour. They would be concrete measures to improve employment. We are even in a situation where companies are in need of skilled labour. In fact, the constraints of the past world slow down economic growth. We should increase the flexibility of the labour market and abandon the need for a foreign labour force. All the parties in this Chamber have taken turns sitting in the government and know that there is no single, magical solution to improving the economy. Mr President! First, the opposition criticised the government's actions as ineffective. Now that the economy is growing and employment is falling, the opposition has changed its rhetoric. The government's activities are branded a member of the coalition. Well, I'm sure we should take this as a compliment if a co-operative policy means creating a sustainable economy. That's what we want. We are prepared to continue the work of a good career. We cannot continue living with a hand in the pockets of future generations. We are prepared to hold a debate on the structural reforms of society without promises of changes that cost billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u161	Mr President! The economic growth that started in 2015 will continue in the current year, and GDP growth can even be expected to exceed last year's level. Economic growth is now strong and broad-based in Finland, as the global economy provides Finland with traction assistance. This is reflected in the good development of both exports and investments. At the same time, employment has grown clearly. These are the things we should all be happy about. The structure of growth in the euro area now supports Finland's exports. The growth in demand in the euro area has also boosted investment, which is reflected in the growing demand for Finnish export industry products. This has, of course, been partly influenced by a light monetary policy and, in part, by the gradual easing of tight fiscal policies in recent years. Infra- and housing construction in growth centres is still the engine of growth in Finland, although the fastest growth seems to have been reversed. These necessary measures not only increase our own GDP directly but also create the necessary conditions for labour mobility and productivity growth. In this Chamber, it has often been said by various parties that in Finland the policy of economic policy should be emphasised, quite rightly, in terms of knowledge-based export-driven growth. Since the analysis underlying this conclusion is correct, Finland's economy will rise and fall with exports. Mr President! The economic situation is now good, but as early as next decade, economic growth is generally expected to remain at a level of more than 1 percentage point. This is because productivity is generally expected to develop modestly while the working-age population is gradually shrinking. The challenges posed by these are the hard core to which economic policy must be able to respond in the coming years. At the same time, policy must be such that growth is distributed in a fair way, because only such a policy can inspire confidence and create faith in the future. Mr President! The two most important issues that we will have to resolve in the future, and which we will be discussing now, when we discuss the budgetary plan for the coming years, are to safeguard and improve the conditions for economic growth and, on the other hand, to combat inequalities. These are not either or so that only one can be resolved, but both must be resolved, because the integrity of society and the sustainability of public finances require much higher levels of employment than is currently the case. The employment rate should therefore rise to more than 75% by the middle of next decade. Reforms that genuinely strengthen employment in the long term should begin without delay. It is also the only sustainable way to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances. Mr President! Investments in knowledge, well-being and education will strengthen this economic activity and will safeguard the conditions for our economic growth in the future. At the same time, they will strengthen long-term sustainability by strengthening employment and reducing the cost of addressing social problems. That is why in this Chamber, too, in this debate, the SDP has proposed five different reforms that should be made. They relate to the reform of early childhood education, the extension of compulsory education, tax reform in support of employment and sustainable development, social security reform and family leave reform. It goes without saying that these reforms will also require additional costs in the future, but if the Finnish welfare society wants to cope with the challenges that will arise in the coming years, then on the one hand we must safeguard and strengthen the conditions for our economic growth and, on the other hand, we must ensure that inequalities in Finnish society do not grow, so that we are all in the same boat. That way we will also achieve the best possible results.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u162	Mr President! First of all, I am in favour of the motion of objection from the Finnish People's Republic of Finland, Action Kankaanniemi. Economic recovery has been necessary and it is expected that growth will continue for some time, even though the pace is expected to slow down. With the global economy and the growth of the European Union, we too look better, but we cannot be lulled by the feeling of well-being, but we must make an active economic and employment policy. When you look at the overall situation, it's not a great thing," says the government. The government debt burden is still heavy, although its share of GDP is falling. We cannot allow sovereign debt to get out of hand and leave a huge debt legacy to our posterity. The early election promises of some parties are irresponsible in view of the current debt situation. Reforms must be made and our country must be brought forward, despite better economic prospects. With Brexit, Finnish agriculture is also threatened by a large cutter. Farmers don't have much of an easy time now, either. The current problem is the exceptionally long dry season of the early summer, which inevitably affects the harvest. A more extensive problem is the level of producer prices. Competition is fierce and imported products weigh down consumer prices. In view of the collapse of EU agricultural subsidies, many farmers who earn their bread are concerned about their future. It should be noted that agriculture directly and indirectly employs an enormous number of people, 300,000, and clean domestic food is an important issue for all of us. Food production is also important for security of supply. The government should really take action in favour of Finnish agriculture, and I would have expected more evidence of a strong will to promote the position of our agriculture so far. Mr President! I do not believe that the government has been fully awake to global economic threats. Brexit, the activities of the ECB and the potential problems of other Member States of the European Union are reflected in the everyday lives of Finns. World trade has experienced smaller and larger turmoil over the last few years. For example, the import duties imposed by the USA also affect Finland and Finnish companies, whether we like it or not. Like the global economy, the international tourist field also lives by changing trends. For example, the number of nights spent by Asian tourists in Finland has increased considerably, and at this point we must help the Finnish tourism industry to make the most of the increased interest in our nature and cities. At the same time, however, we must preserve our unique archipelago, our watercourses and the wilderness of Lapland. The main concern is the lower employment rate than our control countries. Central income needs to be made more attractive by reducing taxation. This would also improve the much-speaked profitability of work for many. Work should always be worthwhile for the person who does it. The fruits of economic growth are not evenly divided, but the rich have had a lion’s share. We need a fairer tax policy. In raising the employment rate, education is an essential solution. The Government needs to develop opportunities for more training to promote employment in a flexible way and to offer the individual good opportunities for lifelong learning. Work also needs to be done to tackle the problem of matching labour and labour supply. The ageing of the population is a challenge in many respects. Good old age belongs to everyone. This will require more flexible and effective solutions to promote services in the future. For low-income pensioners, the government has not done enough. This requires resources. Mr President! The health care price tag will grow a lot. In general, there should be a strong focus on prevention in the field of health, i.e. increasing physical activity and improving lifestyles. This would cost itself many times as much in a long run and, most importantly, would have a positive impact on overall well-being. There is talk of saving opportunities for billions of people in the promotion of health. Cheap housing is a central goal of the Finns Party. The government has had the keys to a solution in this matter, but it has not achieved much. Electricity transmission charges, heating costs, property taxes and rents are becoming overwhelming obligations for low incomes. Despite the promises, I don't think the government has the will to take action. The problem of immigration needs to be addressed with a tighter grip. Mr President, the Nordic countries, led by the government, have found an immigration policy that is not up-to-date. We also need to wake up to the fact that we are no longer living in a birdhouse and in a new type of violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u163	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support Mr Nylander's motion to accept RKP's objection 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u164	Mr President! The recovery of the international economy has landed in Finland at a confusingly slow pace. However, in a time of emerging economic growth there is no reason to relax, but to continue on the path to accurate economic management. I find it worrying that the report says that the good economic climate is covered by the structural factors that have weakened public finances for the past decade. Can it be said more clearly that major problems are being swept under the carpet in Finland? It is precisely during economic upswings that the necessary changes should be made to address these structural problems. Unfortunately, the Sipilä government has failed both in the dismantling of standards and in the dismantling of incentive traps. Finland is still a country of overregulation, as it was before the Prime Minister of Sipilä, and the profitability of working in relation to social security is too low. However, during this term of government, public debt has been reduced. However, the government has not been fully able to put an end to the indebtedness of public finances. I therefore hope that the parties will agree with the direction of Finland's policy in this respect: the next government must stop living as a debt, dismantle bureaucracy and make a fair reform of social security. Mr President! The migration crisis in Europe is a major economic problem and a security problem. Foreign social benefit recipients from outside the EU have come to Finland in the last 10 years with an increase of more than 2000% with the current number of over 125,000 persons. In 2004, the number of foreigners with basic labour market allowance and labour market support was also just over 2,000, currently over 50,000 people outside the EU. The situation in Finland has generally been deteriorating since Prime Minister Sipilä invited asylum seekers from the world to live in his home. The citizens are therefore waiting for a clear line on the issue of asylum and the granting of citizenship. Last year, a record number of citizens were granted, more than 12,000 new citizenships. A country needs law and order as liberal mainstream media continues to cry out for open borders. The policy of open borders deprives the streets of Finland of security, as violence against bystanders increases in public places, even in the form of Islamic terrorism. In Finland, little attention has been paid to the fact that the policy of open borders has also increased organised crime to an alarming extent. So, unfortunately, we are also in the way of Sweden. After all, Sweden made a crucial mistake when the issue of living standards of living was dealt with in public and in policy-makers' speeches only as a positive thing for the economy. This was partly due to the undertone in which the political correctness was considered to be nothing more than an overly positive attitude towards immigration and immigration from abroad, even if its cause is highly questionable from the point of view of national unity and the sustainability of national finances. Finland should learn from Sweden's mistakes and wake up to reality. The need for uneducated, uneducated or illiterate labour no longer exists, if that has ever been the case. Digitalisation and robotisation continue to reduce the need for low-wage labour. Finland should also act ethically in migration and start fighting the world's overpopulation and not create additional pressure for population growth through artificial population transfers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u167	Mr President! When we discuss the budgetary frameworks, the budgetary plan for the next four years and look at the situation in which Finland’s economy is in, we can say that the messages and promises made in the last parliamentary elections and the most important task of this parliamentary term for the government, namely saving Finland’s economy and restoring Finland’s both public and private finances, have been fulfilled. In that sense, Finland has been put in place during this parliamentary term that our economic situation is considerably better than it was three years ago. The latest economic figures indicate that our GDP growth, our economic growth, is 3.1% at the moment. The employment rate, which is a very important figure and tells us how many of our working-age population are working, paying taxes and financing this welfare society, is currently 71, and it seems that if this solid and strong economic development, which has been helped by the sound and sound economic policy of the Sipilä Government, continues, the rate of employment of 72% that the government has set as its target will be reached. It also seems that, by the 2020s, Finland’s additional debt will be broken. Of course, at this point we should not forget that we still have a very significant debt burden for us young generations and for our future children and grandchildren. Mr President! In this parliamentary term, this debate on the budgetary plan has typically been quite a confrontation and quite divisive. It seems to the opposition parties that this good economic development in Finland is due to all factors other than government economic policy. I have said before in this Chamber that at least enough points can be given to us representatives of the government parties and, of course, to the representatives and ministers of the opposition parties, that at least we have not prevented the economic policy from preventing Finland from benefiting from the rise in the world economy. After all, Finland has been the last to be involved in this rise in the world economy. When the previous government base, in which the centre was not involved, was in power, then Germany and Sweden and many other European countries enjoyed this global economic development, but Finland was unable to do so, and only then have the economic policy measures of the Sipilä Government helped us to catch up with that growth. It's not easy, is it? The decisions we have had to make during this parliamentary term have been rather painful and even bitter, but fortunately, they now seem to have supported and Finland is recovering, Finland is rising. At this point we must give the opposition a little credit: I think that the speech by Mr Räsänen, the representative of the SDP, in the presence of a number of extremely critical and upsetting speeches, represented such a good traditional socio-democratic economic policy thinking, and I would like to thank Mr Räsä very warmly for that. President! We must be able to improve the profitability of agriculture. That is the basis of our rural economy. Moreover, the major challenge now facing economic policy seems to be to have a skilled workforce and, above all, how to bring the unemployed and those jobs to bear. It is not just a question of importing labour into cities from rural areas; we have industrial companies that are really successful in smaller municipalities and regional centres, which currently have a strong labour shortage. President! In future, I believe that the most important task of economic policy is that growth really belongs to everyone. All regions in Finland and all population groups must be made to enjoy this economic growth, and decisions have been made in the spending limits debate. There are decisions on justice in raising the minimum daily allowances, which I very much welcome. I hope that in future regional policy will be able to deliver on these good ideas of the recent regional urban programme. The regional city programme must be implemented. President! I do not just want incense and myrrh to be given to this budgetary plan. As a member of the Administrative Committee, I am undeniably concerned about whether these frameworks are sufficient to guarantee our internal security. In this respect, I strongly support the opinion of the Administrative Committee which we gave to the Committee on Finance. In a world of hybrid threats, we must ensure that we have enough policemen and border guards and other security actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u168	Mr President! The economic situation is now good and the economy is growing and employment has been strengthened, and we should all be particularly pleased about this. However, as stated in that statement on the framework of public finances, economic growth is generally expected to reach a level of more than 1 percentage point around the corner, and this is due to the fact that productivity is generally assumed to develop relatively modestly and at the same time our working-age population is gradually shrinking. These are two points on which we must pay particular attention. They are the very core of the challenges that economic policy and all other policies will have to address in the coming years. At the same time, policy must be such that growth is distributed more fairly than it is today, because only such a policy can inspire confidence and confidence in the future in the long term. The two major risks of the government are actually beyond the others: that it leaves a huge number of people out of the fruit of growth, and that, even now, the action of this active model is also despoiling the lives of people who desperately want and want to enter the labour market but fail to do so, and that it takes too little to strengthen the long-term conditions for growth and employment. The report states that Parliament requires the government to promote, through its measures, the availability of skilled labour in sectors and regions affected by labour shortages. The government has made good decisions by facilitating the training of the unemployed with unemployment benefit on the side of so-called self-employed education, and this is definitely a good thing, but because education is capital accumulation, self-training for the unemployed alone is not enough. Those unemployed who do not find a place to train on the open education market need special support. The report reminds us that some 600,000 Finns lack a secondary degree and, for example, in Uusimaa, one third of unemployed job seekers are without a post-basic school degree. In addition, it is estimated that the adult population has around 600,000 people with insufficient literacy or numbering skills and that as much as a million people have difficulties with information technology. Self-motivated education does not bring additional jobs, it only distributes students in a new way. Traditional, more agile vocational labour market training aimed at labour shortages has been driven down. During the last parliamentary term, there were still about 25,000 people in their volume, and we are talking about 5,000. This has been an education that has brought more training places to those areas where there has been a shortage of labour, and has also provided training for people who have had difficulty access to education. Conversion training and others are a good thing and they are trying to end this in the same way, but in fact we should consider whether we still need this kind of vocational training for growth services, because the changes in the labour market are so strong. Training for the unemployed is always about compensatory measures. In order to catch up with this skills gap in the future, it is necessary to build a compulsory education system that will secure secondary education for all young people, as the SDP has suggested — not necessarily the basic standard education, but specific solutions for those students who do not have normal procedures. But in any case, we need that professional skill for all young people. Moreover, in the case of labour shortages, it is worth remembering that it is a trade between two. It is not enough just to exercise the skills of workers. It must be remembered that the work is changing and must change. We have industries that have become transit points. If there is no suction and retention factors in the workplace, it will suffer forever from a shortage of labour, no matter how many people we trained in that sector. By developing better jobs, we can also respond to the availability of labour. In the midst of this lack of knowledge, however, it is worth remembering that here and now we have a shortage of jobs. It is the biggest obstacle to employment and growth policy is therefore needed. The best way to fill the skills gap is through education, special solutions and the fact that the foundation is in place, and now our foundations are leaking. That is why the reform of early childhood education and the extension of compulsory education and the reform of social security in the direction of the general security model proposed by the SDP are essential structural reforms that we need. My second concern, Mr President, very briefly, is that one million Finns are equipped with incomplete digital skills. The government's planned employment services are moving towards digitalisation and electronic services more and more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u169	Mr President! This plan will give rise to some strange ideas if we take a look at what the government has put forward, for example, last week. In fact, if you did not notice, the Government's response last week suggests, among other things, that the service provider, that is, the province, be removed from the obligation to comply with the customer plan. I mean, a plan is made, but you don't have to follow it. In addition, there is no right of appeal. The response directly suggests that the plan does not create the customer’s right to the services. You can't appeal a decision. Until now, the government has emphasised that social welfare allows everyone to access, for example, the doctor or the service provider where they wish to go, the private or public side. This is freedom of choice, which, of course, will remain on government paper today, but if there is a record that plans do not need to be followed, then neither paper nor permission will do much. If, for example, a person has a broken leg and that leg is put in order in a hospital, and then there should be a rehabilitative activity at home, for example, where does the rehabilitation worker get there if there is no need to follow that plan? This is a great mystery. Or is it the case now that, knowing that the cost of social security is going to be considerable — we do not even know the total — these are the means to reduce costs? If you do not follow what is agreed, if you do not follow the plan that is being made, then it is clear that money will be saved. Mr President! Another strange thing about which I have also read is that it has been put forward: there is a point in some paper that the care of the elderly can be digitised. According to the calculations, one nearby nurse will be able to get in touch with 20 elderly people on the morning shift and 40 elderly people on the evening shift digitally. I can say that good luck with the memory-diseased and the demented, that at the other end there will certainly be the old man with whom we are in contact at night or in the morning. It would take about 9 minutes per customer to calculate it. It has been said that there will of course be this machine at home in a corner, a computer or something like that, and it will alert the old man, but yes I'm just saying that the old man jumps on the ceiling when suddenly the sound starts coming out of the corner, that come on to the machine, come on to the machine. I'm sure it won't work. It has also been calculated that it will result in considerable savings. Mr President! In this plan, less than 50 million have now been added to improve benefits, of which 20.2 million have been raised for minimum sickness and parental allowances, 10 million for guaranteed pensions, 5 million for the reduction of the pharmaceutical ceiling and 12.5 million for secondary material. But if we look at what has been cut: index cuts in basic security are still in force, approximately 250 million per year; cut in unemployment benefit by 200 million plus the active model, which came into force from the beginning of this year; increase in social insurance contributions by 150 million 2016, cut in earnings-related sickness allowance by 25 million; cut in parental allowance by 28 million; increase in the general housing allowance by 22 million; cut in the reimbursement of diabetes medicines by 20 million; increase in travel expenses by 11.2 million; increase in the allowance for medical benefits by 12.5 million; cut in diet allowances by 10 million; cut in the rehabilitation system by 9 million; cut in student allowance by 70 million. These make a total of 700 million. This is hard to hear, but it has been done. And at this point I would say, when we were talking about this grievances earlier: you will remember quite well that the government threatened even tougher forced laws if something were not done — even tougher forced laws. At the same time, the government also promised that a number of cuts would not be carried out and that no further cuts would be made. Nevertheless, an active model was made, which has been done since then, to cut the reimbursements for diabetes medicines, and index cuts for basic security are still in force. So it has to be said at this point that someone in this Chamber is speaking a sovereignly modified truth or perhaps so much modern alternative truth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u170	Madam President! The growth of Finland’s public finances depends on the economic cycles of the international economy and on our ability to exploit them. Finland lives from foreign trade. Our standard of living is built on imports, and to finance imports we need exports. In Finland’s economy, the current good momentum is the result of a high international economic climate. We have also had the courage to invest in the export bet. Employment has improved, which has strengthened public finances from two directions, increasing tax revenues and reducing unemployment expenditure. In the EU reference group, we are fairly successful. However, as defined, cyclical trends are always temporary phenomena. Therefore, in a period of high economic growth, we must always be prepared for a future recession. Budgetary policy needs to be tightened up and structural reforms need to be implemented. Unfortunately, it has to be said that the fiscal policy of the government has been more closely followed by the political calendar than the economic cycle. The cuts and blackmails were scheduled for the beginning of the reign, as it was hoped that the citizens would forget the weakening of interests and the deterioration of services before the elections. Similarly, the management of the current high season will be affected by the election scene that is to come next spring. However, the government’s structural policy is a cause for concern. The surgery was directed to training. This will have a negative impact on the future growth path of the Finnish economy. Similarly, economic subsidies which waste money and distort the structure of the economy could not be reduced at all. Mr President! However, the worst of the government's structural policies is still ahead of us. When implemented, the Government's proposal for a regional and social reform represents a heavy burden on the public finances as a whole. A whole new step from the provincial administration will be built in small Finland. In the short and medium term, this will lead to a surge in public expenditure. That is guaranteed by the confusion that prevails. How are wages in the municipal sector evolving, what will happen to real estate and other assets? When only uncertainty is certain, there will be a further bill. In the long term, multi-step management will increase costs and rigidity. Cities that are driven by the economy are not given the freedom they need. There are no savings on the social and health services side. The integration of care chains has been forgotten and there is only a vague promise of more freedom of choice. Thus, demand for services is increasing, but there is no guarantee of the economy of supply. The government's planned savings target of 3 billion dollars is on top of nothing. This has already been made clear in the parliamentary procedure. Instead of savings, there will be additional expenses. Mr President! The savings planned by the government are not just hopes for the regional war reform. The report's text refers to the use of digitalisation. That is probably the right development, but as long as no one can tell us what is being done and when it is being done, it is pointless to hang on to the wishes of the euro. The above paragraph of the report refers to the reduction of the statutory tasks of municipalities and their obligations to implement them. Here again, there is no need to entertain hopes. The abolition of subjective day care is a bad example. The savings are limited and the impact on the labour market, let alone on the equality of children, are negative. If this policy is to reduce expenditure, there will be drastic cuts in welfare services. Mr President! The greatest threat to the future financing of the welfare state and the necessary economic growth is the rise in protectionism. The government must support the EU's trade policy towards keeping world trade as free as possible. The disadvantages of protectionism have been pre-empted. The agreement between Canada and the EU is in the ratification phase, the EU-Japan cooperation agreement can enter into force next year and cooperation with Latin America is under development. Active action in the European Union and a clear direction towards fair liberalisation of international trade are long-term structural economic policies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u171	Madam President! We will be discussing the budgetary plan for the coming years. When we look at the current state of the economy and the future, we can see that right now economic growth is strong in Finland. In their recent forecasts, the Bank of Finland and the Ministry of Finance estimated that Finland's economic growth in the current year was 2.9 per cent. Growth is driven by favourable productivity developments, low financing costs and strong export demand. The government is reaching its target of 72% of the employment rate and 110,000 new employees. Thanks to favourable economic and employment developments, central government debt is finally falling. The central government budget deficit is expected to fall to around EUR 1.3 billion next year. In the next few years, public finances will become slightly in surplus after a deficit of more than 10 years. The Government’s economic policy and actions have contributed to Finland’s economic and employment growth at last. The Government has dismantled standards that hinder work and enterprise and supported the growth of Finnish exports through a competitiveness pact. With an encouraging tax policy, we have ensured that it is worthwhile to invest, try and work in Finland. In its report, the Committee on Finance states that fiscal policy in line with the budgetary plan is in place in relation to the economic cycle. In its report, the Committee on Finance also welcomes the government's investment in education and skills. The Government has allocated resources to expand the free early childhood education experiment, dismantles incentives traps for low-income families and prevents the marginalisation of children by balancing differences in home backgrounds on the learning path. The reform of vocational education and training has increased the competence-based and customer-oriented nature of vocational education and training, increased workplace learning and individual study paths. In addition, regulation and duplication have been dismantled. The reform of vocational education and training classifies a good basis for high-quality and modern vocational education and training, provided that sufficient resources are secured. In addition, the reform of the upper secondary school has been very necessary. It has strengthened the position of upper secondary school as preparatory studies for higher education. The internationality of upper secondary school is increasing and the student receives more personal support and guidance than before. The focus on education should also be continued. The room for manoeuvre available in public finances must be focused on education, research and education. This is the only way we can ensure Finnish expertise and success in the coming years. Mr President! I would also like to thank you for the additional effort made in the framework of the spending limits on employment and security. The acute shortage of experts and the problem of matching skills have been facilitated by the 60 million Skills Package of the 2018 amending budget. Mr Filatov has just drawn attention to an important issue, namely the strengthening of digital competence. Digital skills play an important role in today’s working life. The Government has rightly invested in this too, namely the Digital Age Skills programme, which is intended to strengthen digital skills and thus prevent the development of inequalities. Seven million have now been invested in the Digital Age Skills programme, and the strengthening of digital skills should be taken into account in the future. Mr President! At the same time as the economy is growing, it is worth noting that forecasts for the outlook for the coming years are more cautious than before. Reasons for these more conservative estimates include signs of a slowdown in foreign demand growth, an increase in protectionism and a slowdown in housing construction. It should be recalled that good cyclical developments have not corrected the sustainability gap in public finances, as growth in age-related expenditure will continue to increase rapidly until the 2030s. That is also what the Committee on Finance has said in its report. In addition, the Defence Forces: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u172	Mr President! The Committee on Finance does deserve thanks for its report on the budgetary plan for the years 19 to 22. It's easy to agree. The fiscal policy and policy chosen by the government has been the right one in this economic cycle. You always have to look back a little, so you can look ahead, and if this compares to the 2011 government coalition, it was unfortunately one where no political ideological glue was found and the lowest denominator could not be found, so compromises were not avoided in that composition and we came up with the solution of 6 billion adapting the economy, of which 3 billion were direct cuts and 3 billion tax increases. Unfortunately, in that situation, the 3 billion tax increases were the worst poison for the possible growth that Finland would have needed at that time. The vision was extremely turbulent and entrepreneurs and businesses did not dare to invest at all at that stage. The only bright spot during the last government term was a decrease of 26 per cent in corporation tax to 20, which occurred in 2014 and after which companies received a clear signal that there is a certain positive development in Finland and the investments started. For example, a good example of this is the decision taken in Äänekoski quite shortly after the fall in corporation tax to build the Äänekoski 1.3 billion bioproduct plant. During this term of government, Mr President, different solutions were made. After the last 6 billion years of government, we started to adjust the economy by 10 billion, of which 4 billion came through direct cuts, 2 billion through productivity, one billion by reducing regional tasks and then bringing 3 billion in ten years through social and health reform. And all of this was done in such a way that the tax rate would not be raised. On the contrary, we are even trying to reduce taxation. What was the result? During the last term of government, we lost 100,000 jobs. Now we have about the 100,000 jobs back. During our last term of government, we owed from 50 billion to nearly 100 billion. During this term of government, debt is falling and the real ambition of 72% is also being achieved. Whether this growth started in 2015 under Stubb's government or under Sipilä's government, I think it's just semantics. More precisely, by not raising the overall tax rate, there was a clear signal to entrepreneurs and businesses that it was worth investing in Finland again. Perhaps the conclusion could be drawn from this in the years 19 to 22, first of all, that such a coalition of governments must be found where the political ideological glue will be found in the future. The second big thing is that we will probably have to continue to adapt in the next term, and those irresponsible speeches, in a certain way, about cancelling all the cuts in this term of government, will certainly not happen. More than that, I believe that we must continue to adapt, especially as our dependency relationship will clearly deteriorate over the next decade. On structural reforms, we did not have much to do during this term of government, and in that respect, at least the social security reform is something that must definitely be done during the next term of government, as well as the reform of family leave, and the labour market must be made more flexible. At the moment they are too rigid in Finland, and we must do everything we can to give every Finnish working-age person the opportunity to work in the future. Finally, the deregulation, which has been one of the major themes of this reign, must continue to be accelerated. For example: environmental permits There are about 15,000 in Finland when the other Nordic countries survive with about 3,000 to 600,000 environmental permits. To the end: Digitality has also been mentioned here. This will be extremely important during the next term of government. We need to remove all possible barriers to digitalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u173	Mr President! Finland's economic development is at such a good stage at the moment that, according to many economic experts, political decision-makers will act wisely if they do not interfere with the more positive development. This is what the government has done, recognising the economic situation, by getting the country’s economy going. The tax cuts that have been made have been quite moderate and have mainly supported wage settlements and job creation. We are now living in a high economic climate and economic growth is appropriate, at around 3%. Economic overheating should be avoided at all costs. During the Government term, the target of 72% employment and approximately 110,000 new jobs will probably be reached in the Government Programme. Exports are pulling, and Finland's competitiveness is back on track. Our investment goods are selling around the world. Mr President! The European Central Bank, with its unusual actions so far, has managed to cope with the shocks of the crisis in the euro with commendable results. The greatest threat to the world economy is at present the risk of a trade war that is being fomented by the actions of President Donald Trump of the United States. Protectionism is, in the unanimous view of economists, ultimately detrimental to everyone. The hope is that all players in the global economy will return quickly to a well-founded order of business. Mr President! Let me now turn to the problems of agriculture. Finland is on the way for the 24th year of EU membership. During this period agricultural income, i.e. the compensation the farmer receives for his work and the capital he invests, has fallen by almost 60%. Agricultural income has thus fallen from around EUR 1000 million to over EUR 400 million during EU membership. So we are talking about the total annual agricultural income of Finland as a whole. During the same period of EU membership, the number of farmers has, of course, fallen by around 50%: from 100,000 to less than 50,000. The size of space and units has increased, but it is a mild comfort when this development has largely taken place with foreign capital at the same time as the return on capital has been falling all the time. Last week the government set up a Karhinen agricultural group to consider the future of agriculture and the possibilities for improving development. It has an interesting role to play: whether there will be an increase in agricultural market yields, or a fall in agricultural production costs, or an increase in agricultural income and investment subsidies, or a number of favourable tax solutions for agriculture. As this speech was limited in length, I will take the floor again and, with pleasure, I will end this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u174	There would have been time to go on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u175	Madam President! Many very comprehensive and broad speeches have been heard here today, such as the group speech by the Assembly and the speech by Mrs Wallinheimo. I would personally draw attention to one important issue, which is language skills, namely the importance of diverse language skills in an increasingly international world and in the world of work one can never overemphasize. International affairs and people's freedom of movement affect all of us. Our children are already living in a world where knowledge of foreign languages and cultures is becoming a basic requirement. Unfortunately, language learning has become one-sided in Finland. In general, language teaching begins quite late in Finland. In most European countries, foreign language teaching begins at the age of 6 to 7 years, while in Finland the average starting age is 9 years. Foreign languages and cultures must therefore be better understood, and contact with the first foreign language should be made before the third grade begins. In the previous spending limits debate, the Government decided that, from 2020 onwards, language teaching will begin in the first grade and will apply to all Finnish children. Even before this early stage, the government's key projects will be implemented, and several municipalities have joined the experiment. Thus, first-graders starting in autumn 2019 will be able to get to know their native language as A1 in addition to their native language in the first year of school. This is a very fine and important development, and I hope that this wise path will continue in the future and that this kind of wise decision will continue to be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u176	Madam President! The budgetary plan is an important piece of paper and it is therefore very good that there has been a broad debate here. There's a lot of things, only a few minutes left to take a stand here in five minutes. It is a great pleasure to see that growth has started at this point since the European economy has taken on its role as a locomotive in Finland as well. We must aim for employment at 75%, but I could say that, at this point, everyone who is so-called the easiest to find employment is probably already in employment at 72% and the next 3% is in need of specific measures for those who are hard to work. In this respect, the Government's action on the Growth Services Act is not to support it but rather to weaken it, so new instruments are needed. It has also been regrettable that, while growth is so strong, not all share in it, but still some of us remain excluded from the new fruits of growth. In our view, the Committee on Administration also took a position on this budgetary plan and one of the major concerns was the deteriorating resources of the public finance plan for the security sector. This is in almost all sectors, such as the Border Guard, which had already been agreed in advance on the increase in the number of staff, and these will not be implemented. There is also a slight risk on the rescue services and on the Customs side, but the biggest problem at the moment is the police. The police have once again visited us in committee to tell us about the problem. [Interjection from Parliament] With regard to local government finances, it is also worrying that, according to VM’s own estimate, the local government finances have been negative for the period 2016-2019 and as index freezes continue and due to preliminary cuts, the local government finances will be negative for almost 200 million even during this spending limits period. Municipalities themselves have been able to make up for their own finances, not that this government has become anything but more negatives. Then, at the same time, there has also been talk of the role of public sector workers, and I must admit that the government has not been very nice to the employees there. It affects the reduction of central government support to municipalities and the reduction of holiday money. Not everyone is affected when they are considered together with tax deductions, but for those people who have long worked on the public side, on the municipal side, this is an unfortunate minus. And overall, the purchasing power of public sector employees has fallen in recent years. Is it true that the policy of this government is being paid for by low-paid women?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u177	Mr President! Today, in their group speech and many other speeches, the Finns brought up important issues for the future, such as social security reform, lifelong learning and the idea of being close to people, and that when we have a lot of information about people, we would take that information so that people would not fall so easily out of the aid. In other words, you can see that we have a lot of different ideas, even though it is always said in public that the Finns of Peru are talking about one or two things: asylum tourism and EU policy. But, as we have seen, what is full of the media and where our Prime Minister and members of our government run, it is the EU. And the EU is talking about EMU, joint responsibility and immigration policy. It would therefore seem rather strange not to talk about them in Finland when it is understood worldwide that they are important things. The EU has an impact on everything we do, and in many of the reforms that we are thinking about, we have to go back to the point where we cannot do this because European law becomes a frame of mind for us. If we are thinking, for example, of the reform of social security, we are currently considering notification and the EU legal dimension. We no longer have the right to self-determination, and that too has been argued about, and yet, at the same time, it cannot be admitted honestly that the EU restricts our decision-making right. That too is something we could talk about quite fairly today. A year ago, the Finns of Peru were thrown out of the government with an alleged difference in values, and yes, in that sense at least I disagree with Minister Orpo when he stressed that EU membership was such a patriot that it should not be questioned. I do not think that any decision-making should be considered so sacred that it should not be spoken of critically or questioned. The world is never so complete and no one is smart enough to question ideas. Nothing's getting any better. Jussi Halla-aho, President of the Finns Party, has often called for us to have some plans for the Euro and EU crisis. It has also been said here today that such crises are coming, but we have no plans at all. Everyone in their apartment is also prepared to have alarm equipment on the roof in case of a fire, but we are not really talking about something of this importance. True Finns talk about these things, but there are often laughs in the hall, and in that sense I am delighted that Mrs Väyrynen has come to Parliament because she has also raised these issues. The more people who dare and dare to speak, regardless of how much they laugh, the more we will move to the European level in order to talk about things. If we claim to be the rule of law in which our freedom of expression can be exercised, then we must also be able to talk about the impact of EU policy on the Finnish economy. Our economy is now also significantly affected by the way in which immigration and asylum problems in Europe are solved. I have followed with interest this centre, which is being set up and where people and asylum seekers would be located. In order to improve the security of the Finns, among other things, they proposed detention of illegal residents, and it was then horrified here that how you can now speak such things, quite inhumane, and this is what the whole of Europe is talking about. It is interesting to note that there are some things here in the Finnish Parliament that you may not want to talk about. One of the things that the Finns of Finland missed were investments in agriculture. As has been mentioned here in some of the speeches, the EU is planning new allocation mechanisms and this would be a death blow to Finnish agriculture. I would like — and I did not get an answer from Minister Orpo on how Finland intends to ensure that — that we really have a vibrant countryside. As a Midsummer we all must have gone to the countryside to glorify the Finnish cultural heritage, nature, cows and countryside, but it will not stay there by itself — otherwise. That, too, was not answered. I'm sorry about this short time. There would be a lot of things, but I hope that we will be realistic in the future, talk about things openly, and if we disagree, we do not always have to say and laugh at the fact that ‘in the future we have a way of thinking’. Everybody's got a pretty good opinion. They're all ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u178	Mr President! An old proverb of california, dog and aggravation has come to mind today when various accusations have been thrown in the direction of the Social Democrats in this Chamber. My own speech has been quoted with a very free hand, and, as I have already said, the Minutes show what is the amount and style of deliberate misunderstanding. But that is understandable when we talk to the government about the sensitive and difficult issue of financing the social model. Let us go on to the simple fact that the Ministry of Finance, which usually calculates pencils, has now been very successful in not assessing the cost implications of the government's social welfare model. Why? Well, even two senior officials have told the Committee on Finance that this reform has been carried out in a slightly different way than in general. This means that the starting point is locked both in the provinces and in the freedom of choice, which both increase costs, especially when linked to one another. However, when they cannot be removed from this reform, it is better not to calculate the costs unnecessarily accurately. The Ministry of Finance has been given political guidance and, unfortunately, its credibility has been seriously affected by the social welfare laws and now by this budgetary plan. The saddest thing is that at the end of the consultation, the highest official in the ministry is offering some stetson-refugeed figures, so flimsyly justified that we cannot even deal with them. In other words, the numbers of the Ministry of Finance are not in line with the opinion of the Committee on Finance — so sad is the preparation of this huge reform. On the other hand, the politically unguided experts we have heard over 100 on two occasions have almost unanimously come to the conclusion that the government's social model is more likely to generate an additional cost of 3 billion than the corresponding savings. When such an opinion has been issued by such respected bodies as Etla, VATT, Aalto University, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council and dozens of experts in health economics, it is quite exceptional that these expenditures are not foreseen in the budgetary plan. Minister Orpo defended the fact that freedom of choice did not get off the ground during this spending limits period, and that was the only good news of this depressing general situation. It was recently reported that the provinces almost compete as to who would be the first to enter this new system. Well, these figures on the budgetary plan are missing and therefore there is no credible budgetary plan at hand. It is a political wish document in which, apart from this elephant-sized gap, analytical VM estimates have been presented as such. The Committee on Finance gave a very critical assessment of the war in its entirety, that is to say of the representatives of the government parties. In addition, the opposition as a whole made a difference of opinion, all six parties, which is historic and exceptional. The views of the Left Alliance and the RKP on the war itself are probably as far apart from one another as those of the Greens and the Finns of Peru, but we were all united by the horror that our name is required for such an open bill. It is no longer a political question, but an ethical belief that on such a flawed basis, on such an insolently small basis, there can be no such revolutionary social reform. It was equally outrageous that the government parties did not allow the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to give their expert opinion on the budgetary plan. So we, the poor people, had to hear the health experts again very carefully. Unfortunately, our ethical convictions were only strengthened. Unfortunately, nothing said here today by Minister Orpo gave light to this billion-dollar black hole. Well, instead of talking about what the government would not like to talk about, that is, about social security money, we talked about what we wanted to talk about, that is to say, Minister Orpo's arms carriers, representatives of Zyskowicz and Jaskari, were also talking about some rather coloured views on the SDP's tax programme. Of course, the SDP has a tax programme that can be criticised, while the assembly lacks one, so it is impossible to criticise tax policy when it is so vague. Without further addressing this grumbling, many of our presentations come from the presentations of expert groups from the Ministry of Finance, which, for political reasons, were not acceptable to Mr Orpo himself, and we have a number of entrepreneurship reform proposals in our alternative budgets. When Mr Jaskari accused us that entrepreneurship was not mentioned in the group statement, the accusation could also have been directed at Mr Suutari, because even the group statement of the Coalition Party did not mention entrepreneurship. All the same, finally, I would like to put to the House for approval the statements of objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u179	Mr President! I've already talked a lot about entrepreneurship in this toilet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u182	Mr President! This is where Mr Suutari gave the false proof of this increase in value tax, which is included in the SDP's tax programme. Its purpose is to tax income in Finland when it was generated in Finland, so it is not worth moving abroad just because a country that is potentially cheaper in taxation would take out income from a capitalisation agreement, for example. The tax is not collected in the event of emigration, but at the point when the return is taken out. Therefore, the correct term for this tax is an increase in value tax. This tax is used in various forms in several countries, including the last one launched in Spain. This is not contrary to any EU law. So here you are now joining the coalition and EK Chamber of Commerce wing, which deliberately spreads the wrong information about this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u183	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u184	Madam President! The Government's report on the budgetary plan for the coming years is a very good and thorough account of where our economy is developing. We have finally come out of the recession, which took a long time, almost eight years roughly, and now that we have gradually come out of the recession, I am a little surprised at what the opposition has put forward here, with huge increases in expenditure, without thinking at all about what it is going to lead to. The worst poison I have heard in this debate against economic growth is the increase in taxes. The world page has also been reviewed for the fact that the more taxes are tightened, the more unemployment increases. They go hand in hand, I'm afraid. In the last parliamentary term, have we not already tried it quite enough? It would be hoped that when arguments are made, they would also be slightly justified. Tax tightening cannot be justified by falling unemployment and increasing vitality. Taxation can kill a well-functioning company. And with regard to the profits of companies, it is worth remembering that not a single euro to be taxed will be achieved from a company that will make a loss, and in a couple of years' time nothing will be gained, but the claims on someone and the financial institution will remain. In any case, however, the economy is growing, and the forest has once again acted as a good engine in the violent growth that took place during this parliamentary term. Mr Suutari, in his own speech, has already opened it well. Indeed, when the growth of Finnish forests currently stands at around 113 million mots for a year, it is a huge growth base that can be used in the future. We must remember that once the harvests have been running around 65 to 70 million times a year, we still have a huge limit to use more forest and we are still on the side of sustainable forestry. And in the context of today's forest industry, it is a good thing that, in previous years, when there was not so much investment in new growth, i.e. research and product development through new innovations, that work is now being done with great heat. It is true that the stakes are still small, but there is a growing road to real investment in investment, i.e. building new premises, factories and so on, but there is also a huge amount of investment in product development. Of course, companies operate on the income stream they receive from the world market. I am very surprised that we have the opposition in this debate to propose ways of reducing this budding growth. Of course it is possible by tightening taxes and making many other tricks, but did we not already eat enough of that poison in the last parliamentary term? We must remember that during the last parliamentary term, the state of public finances weakened by EUR 38 billion. Central government debt grew, local government debt grew, central government cashier decreased and central government assets decreased. That's where the sum comes from. [Interjection from left] In any case, I am greatly surprised that this current growth, which has just begun... Eight years went in the wrong direction, and every reasonable person knows that when eight years have gone in the wrong direction, no one will fix it in a year, two or three. The trend has been substantially reversed. And for the 100,000 unemployed who have found a job during this parliamentary term and for the 30,000 long-term unemployed who are currently working, the result of this parliamentary term has been a tremendously positive turn for their lives. The employment rate will be 72% during this parliamentary term and, as Mr Sipilä has emphasised in many speeches, 75% must be the objective of the next government, whether it is desired or not, if we want public finances in this country and our debts to be paid off, so that one day we will pay off our debts. It is a matter of honour for a Finnish person that when debt is taken, it is also paid. In any case, that is the way in which we will be able to pay these debts: raising the employment rate. At that time, unemployment expenditure from the central government treasury will be reduced, which has been at its worst in the range of 5 to 6 billion. They're getting smaller. And while we are making a debt payment, we are creating new savings so that we can accelerate growth and build a better road network in Finland, which is definitely in need of more money for basic maintenance and basic infrastructure management and, above all, to do it sensibly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u185	Madam President! At the outset, I would like to support Mr Haraka's proposal to accept this in the form of an objection from the SDP. In other words, there is support here for the good basic policy of the SDP presented by Mr Haraka, the alternative policy of this government, where it is unfortunate that when the economy grows, which is a good thing, growth does not belong to everyone, but value choices have been made in a rather unpleasant, cruel way. I think it was quite right that at the outset we pointed out and pointed out that, last but not least, the hardworking employees in the public sector, the teachers, the nurses, the cleaners, the cooks, the police, will see on their payroll the unfortunate fact that growth really does not belong to everyone. Despite several petitions, the government has not wanted to return this holiday money it has cut. Whatever you say in this Chamber from the right-hand side, however, the truth is that as a result of the government's actions, the holiday money was cut off from the public sector employees. We remember all the early stages of this period, where the government brought up these threats of forced law, jumped into the employers' locker room, the business locker booth, there only Soin's boxes were stuck in the door when this jump took place, and here we go. We have heard here, among other things, from Mr Häkämie, that it was precisely the government that wanted this kiky agreement to be implemented by cutting this holiday money. Here we go, I wanted to start with that, Mr President. There has been talk here of different economic lines, and I think it has also been apparent that the distinctive feature of economic policy during this period has been that the values of the Coalition Party are being made. The money runs out when it comes to basic security, unemployment security, pensions, families with children, there has been a lot of cutting to do, but then there has been enough money for tax cuts, whether it is the most prosperous pharmacist, or the owner of a large forest property or a multi-billion-dollar heir. That is what value choices have been made, and that is perhaps a further review. That is why I am particularly sorry, President, that this is a cold coalition economic line, and then every time we are here in the Chamber, the centre in the Chamber is also at that moment in line with and very strongly supports this economic line. On the other hand, on the other hand, the speeches in the provinces on weekends in the city centre are more emphasising the embryoism, and I still look forward to the measures that have been promised in the city centre's weekend speeches that we should get something good for small pensioners. But so it has happened that people, for example, who receive a small earnings-related pension, have constantly fallen into a minus mark when they always look at their purses and see what happens. Unfortunately, by this government's policy, the minus sign is there. President! In this debate today, when we are talking about a budgetary plan, the same known fact is that there is an elephant in this Chamber. I think it is a big elephant, although Mr Väyrynen feels a little bit that it is a smaller elephant, but yes, listen, a big mega-class elephant is what is in this Chamber. And, indeed, it has become clear here that the Committee on Finance has repeatedly asked for impact assessments and the government has not even been able to assess them in a billion-dollar category. It is also a fact that experts in various committees have reported and estimated that the cost impact will be less than cost-effective. That is why it is quite fierce to think that we are still preparing a model of social reform by the government parties, which will increase costs and put a lot of difficulties into the coming periods. And then, if this provincial government were to come, there would be provincial decision-makers between wood and bark, when there was no right to tax, there would not be enough funding — the government is cutting it with its own cutter all the time. Therefore, the provinces would be forced to increase customer charges and reduce services, and such a future would not look good. Indeed, when we are talking about a budgetary plan, it is extraordinary that this plan has not even been taken into account or estimated in the billions category of this plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u186	Mr President! Representative Viitanen spoke about occupational pension contributions and government decisions. It should be corrected that the government does not make decisions on occupational pension contributions, but, of course, they are decided on in the earnings-related pension scheme. When I have had a business for 37 years, I know that when I started my business, 6% of my earnings-related pension contributions were paid and now they are paid in total — employee and employer — 24%, and of course no one is asking them how to raise them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u192	Madam President! I would like to return to my speech on the opinion of the Committee on Culture. Education and training resources have been significantly reduced over the last ten years, and that is a fact, but this reduction has been particularly significant by this government, in total about EUR 3 billion so far. The amount is so significant that the fall it brings to Finland's success is still ahead of us. We already see signs that we are falling behind the rest of the world, especially in terms of the number of innovations in relation to the population. In its opinion, the Committee mentions the realisation of equality in education and training. The report draws attention to the home allowance for basic education, which is currently not equal to all pupils and education providers. The municipal allowance for the non-municipality organiser currently amounts to 94% of the compensation received by the municipality. The committee considered that this 6% difference should be clarified and that the necessary measures should be taken to achieve equality. I believe that this report and these calculations must be carried out as soon as possible in order to put an end to this misalignment, which has been known for decades. In the past, it was up to 10%, but during the last term of the government a 4% clarification was obtained — but there is still 6% left. A good thing is investing in conversion training and an educational material supplement for students under 20 years of age in upper secondary school, who are low-income families, i.e. with a total income of less than EUR 40000. This is a very significant addition. Then there's a few thoughts about the repair debt of the fairway network: Perhaps the biggest surprise of this report is the government's proposal to reduce transport infrastructure funding at a time when it produces good results and the debt to repair began to decrease. Now it is turning again into growth as a result of this presentation. As the committee proposes in its opinion, the proposal of the parliamentary working group for a 12-year national transport system plan should be taken into account. This was a common position, and when all the government parties have been involved, why has another approach been chosen to catch up with this debt? Mr President! Thoughts about agriculture: There are currently dark clouds above Finnish farmers and agriculture. The EU's financial framework for 2021 to 2027 would mean a reduction of around EUR 420 million for Finland in the current spending limits period.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u195	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen referred above to a very important issue, which is certainly a bit of a matter of prestige or value, namely how our agricultural sector is going to manage. We have been able to see the reality of the committee's report when public finances are planned for a longer period of time, that money will be reduced from that sector, and we do not yet know how the EU negotiations will proceed as to whether we really have the opportunity to pursue an agricultural policy that will enable the domestic food industry to be self-sufficient in this country. It is noteworthy that either it is or it is not. We now need to make the decisions, and the opposition need not be very critical when it comes to assessing that we see the money that is going to be reduced for many years, what is in the budgetary plan. It's a fact. I would at least like to see at least one committee and a representative from the centre present here, and I would like us to share this concern about how we can ensure security of supply and how the Finnish agricultural industry can produce safe food in this country and be competitive when food is exported from us to the world. This is a concern which I share as a left-wing MP. In the same way, we must see in the other committee where I am working, on the transport side. We heard something a little bit now about stopping the negative development of this government so that the debt related to how you are being maintained would have been stopped. No, the government made the right decision to bring more money, but it did not stop the amount of infra debt that will be passed on to future generations. So I should be honest. It is great to praise yourself, but you should see the future and not just focus on what is good. In the transport sector and in the maintenance of the road network, it is necessary to give the government credit for the fact that basic improvements have been made, but it is wrong to say that it was stopped when the debt grew despite the fact that so much was being invested. That is why we must be very active and then say that the next government, the next parliament, will be burdened with how we deal with these matters. It certainly requires a great deal of consensus from Parliament on what is to be done. In the report on transport policy, the working group stated that it was necessary to move on to 12 years of planned road network development, but, as has been said today — for example, Mr Wallin — what is needed, for example, in the case of Varsinais-Suomi, when the economy is changing? The needs of transport services are very critical of how we can produce those additional jobs in this country that can then give us the means to distribute where we can then secure the funding of our welfare state. Madam President! We need cooperation, and in this debate, what is going on in the coming years, when we are not just talking about an amending budget or about the successes or failures of this government's public finances, we need to work together and hope that, at least on the transport side, we can see each other in such a way that we can make good progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u196	Madam President! Over the three years of the current government, the number of unemployed has decreased by nearly 90,000. Fifty thousand of these jobs have come in the last year, meaning that the sacrifice of the blue ones has not been wasted. The alternative was not just to halt employment trends. During the previous government, the famous 100,000 and a little more jobs were lost. The government's economic policy has aimed at indebtedness in public finances and to cover the EUR 10 billion sustainability gap with savings and measures to support growth and enhance public service production, and we are succeeding in this. The Committee on Finance has also stated that many of the government's economic policy objectives, such as the debt-to-GDP ratio and the decline in the debt ratio, are being realised on the basis of forecasts from the Ministry of Finance. By way of derogation from previous estimates, the Government’s targets to raise the employment rate to 72% and to increase the number of employed persons by 110,000 during the Government’s term of office seem to be realised next year. The acute shortage of skills and the problem of matching skills have been addressed, among other things, in this year's amending budget, which shows an increase of around EUR 60 million to improve the availability of skilled labour, including conversion training and the development of sector-specific training in vocational education and training. Hopefully, there will also be plenty of workers in both forests and farms for berry picking. Finnish workers do not have enough interest in this work, so we need a foreign labour force. It is therefore particularly important that measures to support employment and growth continue to be the primary focus of government work in the last year of the government's term of office and that they are also emphasised in the next government programme. The opposition has also criticised today why the government has cut more from education and research than it has now given back. The Government’s efforts in the opposition have been described, among other things, in the words ‘with the spoon cut with shovels’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u199	I give Mr Viitane the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u200	Madam President! Perhaps I shall now, for example, repeat this aspect of education, because it was so stressed by the speaker. I would remember that before the elections there were also blue Finns — then the Finns — showing people a note that no more training cuts. It was a joint educational promise before the elections that no more training cuts. And what do I see? With my eyes I see the same blue party — or perhaps a different party, but the same people — who have now carried on these cuts with a violent hand, [KariKulmala intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u201	Mr President! As we are talking about the budgetary plan, it is understandable that the debate also goes to these cuts in education, and the most harmful aspect of these cuts in education is the debate that is taking place here. When a prisoner of the present government has been motivated by the fact that ‘whereever the government operated’,thereis no need for such cuts. [EeroSuutari calls for a reply ] But, Mr President, in this speech I would have liked to address the cost implications of the reform of social welfare and health care in relation to this debate. There are always different proposals from different parties in this JTS debate, some of which are missing, but the government's reflection on these costs of social change has now remained very quiet. When the opposition is asked whether anyone can now judge them with even a billion marks, this debate will not be allowed to take place. Is it easier to talk about responsible economic policy when it comes to other issues, but when you come here to the big reform of the government and start digging up the bag, that what you can find here, then the government parties will only raise their hands and say that this is not actually an evaluation? In that sense, it is quite the right estimate, because both the Committee on Finance and a number of experts have said that, at the moment, no one will be able to say, even with a billion-dollar resolution, what this social reform will still contain. In such a situation, it is unheard of, however, that Parliament should be asked to sign a bill of lading, the total of which is unknown.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u203	I give the floor to Mr Suutari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u204	Mr President! Mr Räsänen made a wrong point when he said that the most powerful argument of the present government would be that ‘the decent government cut off’. This is not the case, but it was planned to cut secondary education even more than it was in this period, and it was precisely because of the budgetary plan. And if we start with what was there, then we have had an earlier increase, from the beginning of the millennium, the cost of secondary education, vocational training from around EUR 1 billion to EUR 2 billion, and that was about EUR 200 billion in savings. Also in view of the fact that the number of places to start secondary education was twice as high as the number of starters, there was a need to consider some surgery to do so. Now it has been discovered that we have to put money back in it. It is not quite so simple that some bad government was doing cuts, sparing, but there have been valid arguments: either economic policy or need-based, as in this case:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u205	Looks like there's a need for a little debat. Let's keep it short. — Mr Kurvinen, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u206	Madam President! Thank you for your quick reply. In this debate, we have now had this situation and these calculations of social welfare reform on several occasions. However, I think it would be a good idea to admit quite beyond all party boundaries and beyond the line of government and opposition that this is a very core issue. So it's not one of the biggest things, it's just the basic pillar of our entire public finances, that we can reform our social welfare and health systems. After all, we cannot avoid it by any other economic policy measures or any savings from other sectors. When we know that treatments are tilting, we have a different kind of nausea, we have an ageing population, so if we do not find new ways to guarantee more affordable quality services, prevent problems, then we will be failing the foundations of our public finances. Of course, these elements, such as the private sector — the social democrats have outsourced their own social services in the municipalities — will be needed for this whole. No one can escape the need for social reform in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u207	Mr President! In this context, it has been stressed on many occasions that we should open up further, but also in the speeches of the opposition and in the budgetary plan, the Committee on Budgets has jointly stated that we have problems in the future. We have growth falling below 1.5% and funding is needed because of the increase in expenditure. Here, in my opinion, quite lightly throws the articles that someone as evil had made adjustments and cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u208	Mr President! From this point of view, it is good to continue to say that, in this Chamber as well as in the Committee on Budgets, where this report was taken up in relation to the JTS, everyone will sign that when we look to the future, there will not only be rosy meadows, but there will be various threats as to how our economic development will continue, what challenges we will already face because of ageing and so on. That is why it would be good if, knowing that there will be spending pressures in the future, we did not want to make any reforms which would increase these spending pressures, at least under conditions. That's what this is all about. If the gross estimates of the economic impact of the social and health care reform are currently plus 3 billion minus 3 billion, then this is the 6 billion Gap. As we will certainly continue to be tough in the economy, I do not want to make such a reform now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u211	Madam President! Indeed, the idea of this government has been to turn the economy around so that it will bring more benefits to the economy, both for public finances and for businesses, because only an active company that produces profits can hire additional labour. It's the loser who's cutting down on the labor force. With our system so rigid, all inflexibility in the system is directly reflected in unemployment compared to the Danish system, which I am reasonably familiar with. Then, Mr Räsänen said that there have been cuts in the way of reforms, for example on the educational side, on the educational side. Of course, reforms have been made, but reforms have also been made. After all, the policy of this government has been clear: the economy is working, reforms are being made, including social reform. Those who oppose these reforms should remember that there is no longer that status quo, that world that we can safely return to that past and continue to live where the costs are growing at a fierce rate. You, Mr Räsänen, know more than I know what the percentage is if we do nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u212	Madam President! Three things seem to be being debated here all the time: Firstly, whether the Competitiveness Pact has played an important role in this economic growth. I'm saying there's been a slight effect. The recovery of the world economy will have a major impact. You shouldn't be arguing about this anymore. The second is these training cuts. All the parties here have been doing training cuts. Let's be honest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u213	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u236	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u279	Mr President! It is very easy to agree with the wise words of the two previous speakers, and the problem that has emerged is just one example of the difficulties that arise when local government-based employment management is transferred — and hopefully will never be transferred — to the provinces. The Social Democratic Parliament has submitted its own constructive additional economic initiatives, with a total of 320 million contributions to knowledge and employment. They include a significant investment in education and training, as well as increasing the powers of Business Finland's innovation funding. In ten years, direct contributions to research and education have fallen by about one third, that is, even during this term of government. Of course, all the parties in the Chamber are responsible for this direction, which, according to the screeching definition of Technology & Economics, is the direction of a coward. Let's change this direction. Of course, it is right that the government has identified the problem of the lack of skilled employment in some sectors and in successful localities. The only strange thing is that it has taken so long for this problem to be raised. And it is not enough to try to tackle the acute problem in the amending budget, but to take a step towards a proper, goal-oriented reform such as that proposed by Mr Ihalainen. The reform of vocational adult education and training, conversion training, will respond to the skills gap of one and a half million Finns, and it will also be a necessary task of the next government. But now we have to go back to the theme that has been discussed here the other week and the previous week in two different referral debates and which, unfortunately, has not reached the desired conclusion. At the time, we expressed serious concern about illegal pilots, i.e. EUR 100 million for the amending budget, which will be distributed to the provinces to pilots of so-called freedom of choice. We now have a report from the committee, which I quote in this regard: ‘The total amount of EUR 199 million is proposed for the cost In this way, the funding of pilot projects is to be converted into an area of competence. The committee stresses the conditionality of the allocation and the fact that pilots can only be launched and financing decisions can be taken after the Act on Freedom of Choice has been adopted and adopted.’ Two points to note are: First of all, the description of the budget of this State is subsequently changed. It's just an authorisation now. And secondly, which is equally significant, Mr President, there is no reference to the opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, nor to this latest one, nor to the one year ago, which, however, may be the real reasons why such manoeuvres and changes have taken place. This is all about the contempt shown by the government parties for the opinions of the Constitutional Committee. The government parties have not wanted to understand what they really require, but have taken the view of the Constitutional Committee as if it were a standing table, as if its decisions could be carried out as if it were what it wants and not those who are not interested. The legal basis for the pilot funding guidelines is therefore still unclear. There is no legislation on them. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has already organised one application round on the funding of pilots, which also defined the criteria for pilots. 15. On 1 May, this money has already been distributed — or what the correct word is now, a preliminary decision. These guidelines have created the expectation of future funding for the regions if legislation enters into force. Therefore, serious comments have been made on this during the two summers by the Constitutional Committee, and in this situation, however, the government is arrogantly increasing the funding of pilots by 100 million and organising a new round of applications before long. This constitutionally questionable start to implement the reform before the legislation enters into force must be stopped immediately. That is why we demand and make a statement that Parliament requires the Government to suspend all measures relating to the freedom of choice pilots and cancel the decisions it has already taken on the financing of pilot projects. I would therefore like to make all the statements under protest 1, of which this is the most important and most urgent.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u280	Mr President! In the recent debate on the budgetary plan, there were a lot of speeches here, and we Social Democrats actually had two main lines. One was about how we could strengthen and improve the conditions for future economic growth, and the other was about combating inequality. These two lines are also reflected in the presentations we have now made to this amending budget, and in this respect it is easy to agree with and support all the proposals that Mr Harakka has just made. The most important of these is indeed this latest point made by Mr Haraka, which relates to the social welfare pilots and the ambiguities they have been dealing with. Yes, we should all take very seriously both this year and last year these statements from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which relate to this. Secondly, Mr President, it is also easy to agree with what Mrs Filatov said about the continuation of the municipal trials, and it is important that we now make it possible for any customer there not to fall into the middle but to continue the experiments, and in this respect I also support the statement made by Mrs Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u281	Mr President! This amending budget will target funds to improve the availability of skilled labour, transport and communication projects and measures required to alleviate the crisis in agriculture, and as a very interesting new opening, we will start setting up a new type of state-owned company, Finnish Malmi Refinery Ltd. I think it is a very good thing that, when the mining industry is a little bit of a controversial business sector, that there are certain minerals in the soil of a particular country, in this case our country, Finland, that are needed in the world, and there is always a private company mining them, and yet there are strong environmental impacts from mining activities and certain permanent traces, it would be good, however, for the nation in whose territory and on whose soil the good excavations are found to benefit. I hope that now the launch and development of this Finnish mineral processing industry will be an incentive for us to create a state-owned mining company, a state-owned company. And of course it is pleasant to say, as a representative of the constituency of Vaasa, that when we also have strong lithium reserves for the future battery plant project in that Ostrobothnian region, this could also be the answer. But, Mr President, perhaps the most important thing I want to do is to speak on these freedom of choice pilots, which the Socialist opposition has just torn up quite a bit. Of course, I agree with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u284	Congressman Mäkinen. — Is the first speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u285	Madam President! A number of distinguished speeches have been made in this Chamber today, highlighting, among other things, the challenges and opportunities that have been opened up by the improved national economic situation. Having listened to the discussions, it is relatively easy to conclude that the current agency does not have a lot of things on which Parliament has not found a common view among itself. However, I venture to assume that we are all concerned that economic winds may not be stable. In connection with the debate on the amending budget, I would like to draw attention to an important theme for the economy, growth and vitality: active employment policy, i.e. employment management. I am not referring to the active model that has now been launched, but to the common will to find ways of safeguarding the fundamental right of every citizen to work, to work capable of supporting himself and his family, both economically and socially. As the general economic situation improves, the trend in employment has been very encouraging. At the same time, however, it can be seen that long-term unemployment has not gone down almost as expected. We know that the positive effects of business recreation will sometimes be reflected in the field with a delay of years and that it alone will not be enough to tackle the same major problem of poverty. At the end of April, 80,600 Finns were long-term unemployed. Those who have some kind of fact-based and experience-based understanding of the everyday lives of people living on or below the poverty line also understand that, along with vitality, this is a truly important issue affecting the well-being of children and young people, humanity and the unity of society. The current employment policy guidelines may not have been able to address the hard core of unemployment and help people who have difficulties for one reason or another to enter or return to work. The role of employment services in growth services in potential future regions is clearly focusing on services for those who are easily employable, while services for those who need more support are planned to be managed from the interfaces there. Hopefully, we will ensure that the reform will not lead to a situation in which job seekers will also be disadvantaged in relation to the availability of services. The need to continue the municipal pilots in the management of employment is real, so that those most in need of support are not affected by an immediate disruption of service. I am concerned that the government is trying to find simple solutions to a complex problem. No one would deny that the jobs of today and the future are primarily transferred to SMEs, and I personally see nothing reprehensible about it. However, it is not realistic to assume that the path to the labour market from there to the one that has fallen is found only directly in companies through employment. The restrictions on the allocation of pay subsidies were to lead to a disaster in regions where, for example, the organisation field has assumed significant responsibility for the conditions for gradual progress. The clear and fully justified message from the private sector has been that it cannot take responsibility for the employment of the most vulnerable unemployed. That responsibility cannot be outsourced. Instead of restrictions, there would be a need for flexibility in the field of employment management to enable individual solutions to be tailored. In this respect, the SDP's proposal to abolish the 3000-hp limit on pay subsidies to organisations is very welcome. The increase in appropriations for the management of employment is necessary, but I also hope that attention will be paid to targeting them. Responsibility for implementing employment policy has been systematically transferred to the private sector. At the latest, the active model showed insufficient resources for employment services when we were able to determine that the courses or training required for the model could not be organised in a similar way to the need. I am truly sorry that almost 40% of the unemployed had to prove this by losing almost 5% of their own unemployment benefit and relying on last resort income security. Taking into account the demands made by the active model to the job seeker, the provision of services cannot be based solely on companies, as their availability varies significantly, given the geographical differences. In this respect, the SDP's proposal to allocate additional resources more intensively to the development of the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) and municipal job search services is justified. The ultimate problem cannot be solved by repeating it again in a new form. This is one of the key issues in terms of the effectiveness of services, if the objective is to genuinely increase the opportunities for individual job seekers to find employment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u286	Madam President! The main increases in appropriations in the Government's proposal are allocated to a skilled workforce, including improving its availability, a transport and communication project and support for agriculture, which I specifically mention in euros: EUR 35 million. In addition, Terrafame Group Oy’s operating mandate will be changed. I consider these proposals to be very important. The draft amending budget will also reduce the need for central government net borrowing by around EUR 1.3 billion, i.e. the net borrowing is estimated at around EUR 1.7 billion for this year. It is significantly less than previously estimated. Thank you for that to the good economic policy of the government. Economic policies aimed at improving the conditions for growth and strengthening public finances should continue, as the Committee on Finance has also stated in its report. A number of improvements to internal security were made in the spending limits debate, which are easy to achieve. Additional funding for the police and the protection police, tougher penalties for sexual offences and the return of fines are necessary reforms to increase the security of our society. The decision to allow the garrison to be entitled to the same accident compensation as the Peacekeepers is also a right and welcome decision. One might ask why it is not until this parliamentary term. Didn't the previous government notice this mishap? The Finnish Hunting Federation is doing a very important job. In many cases, their environmental work is significant in its scope and effectiveness, as an example of youth work and, among other things, the construction of wetlands. I therefore very much welcome the fact that their valuable work has now been taken into account in the government. The committee will allocate the EUR 100000 increase proposed to this item as a general grant to the Finnish Hunter Federation for use in building wetlands, among other things. The next draft budget should also take into account the work done for young hunters and also target funding for camp training and training for young hunters and at least halve the fee for the management of hunting under the age of 18 from next year. You don't need a fishing day care fee if you're under 18.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u287	Madam President! By way of derogation from other opposition groups, the Finns of Peru assume that government debt will not be increased, or in fact it will be reduced exactly as the government responsibly proposes. This follows from the fact that the State Aid for the costs of pilot projects for freedom of choice, organised by the municipalities in the social and health sector, is being proposed in our protest to be removed. The reform of social welfare and health care is ongoing and it is very uncertain whether it can take place in the form proposed by the government. The main problems are explicitly included in the freedom of choice model. However, in the 2018 budget, the Government has already allocated EUR 100 million to the costs of customer choice and pilot projects in the personal budget. In the amending budget, the Government proposes that the appropriation be converted into a mandate and that the mandate be increased to a total of EUR 199 million. Linking an uncertain project with specific forms of pilot does not meet the conditions for good governance and decision-making. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been very critical of the procedure. Mr President! The abolition of this item will therefore relieve this year's budget of EUR 100 million, and we propose that an increase of EUR 26 million for the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry of Education and Culture, and EUR 22 million for OKM, be used to promote knowledge and growth through this additional budget. In addition, we are proposing a €40 million share of this saved money for transport projects. We have divided the rest into smaller targets, such as the police and support for crime prevention and a few other items which are reflected here in the protest and then in the amendments distributed to the tables which we will be voting on in the next few days. There is also a small increase in the supply of vaccines, from which the government is proposing to remove a million dollars to prepare for this problem of tick encephalitis in this country. Mr President! So we will be presenting these proposed changes to the budget: one reduction, and the others will be the additions. In addition, our objection includes two statements, the first of which requires the Government to draw up a comprehensive knowledge and growth development programme on measures to raise the level of knowledge, to prevent labour mismatches, and to promote research, development, innovation and digitalisation in support of healthy growth, and to significantly increase investments in these purposes. And in the second, we propose that the government take urgent measures to reduce housing costs, reduce the transport network repair debt and reduce income and wealth disparities. Mr President! In this additional budget, we can already reverse this trend in terms of investing in those areas that increase economic growth, strengthening society's resilience to the challenges ahead, and also gradually correcting the shortcomings that have come to social security as a result of the cuts that have been made in this decade. We have a significant number of people who, for example, are under pressure because of the high housing costs, and of course there are those who have to wonder whether to buy bread or medicine. This is an unacceptable situation in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u288	Mr President! Mr Harakka has already outlined the priorities of the SDP's protest, and then Mr Mäkinen's excellent speech has also opened up these right needs of labour policy. Good luck with your first speech here in Parliament. It was a heavy word, all of it. President! I was surprised when it was said earlier here that these illegal pilots, of which Mr Harakka spoke very well, were now being attacked by the SDP, but it was not taken into account that for a moment, in fact, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already broken them on two occasions. That with a little light brush, if you can say so, the government parties are now taking these rather serious remarks and reproaches of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to my mind. Then to these other pilots, which Mr Filatov spoke very well about and made a good proposal: there is indeed a problem there, if these trials of municipalities are stopped, and there is a threat that a number of those who are the hardest to find employment will be excluded from the active measures. It is absolutely essential that this should now be corrected and that these existing experiments continue. When I come from Tampere and Pirkanmaa, I know that they have worked well, and that is why there is a great deal of concern that, in the context of this social and regional model, these vital services and employment services will, in fact, be treated hard, because we have often heard of the estimates that how much money will be enough to sustain them. And then, if we get very good experiences in the region of Tampere, for example, with local models in the region, why do we have to get rid of them? For once, when someone is acting, it would be now, Mr President, that good time. Instead, things that don't work are brought back by the crowds, by the rocks. Importing active models which in themselves do not even bring the desired results. I remember that the Vice-President, too, in some wise statement in the press, felt that these are not very wise experiments now, however, to go on these weak ices with regard to the active model. Similarly, apart from the fact that there will be squatting through active models, there is now a threat to young people, for example, that, without justification, temporary work can be added. What is the point of increasing uncertainty for young people? I noticed in that last discussion of the subject that there, for example, the blue representative Torvinen said that it is a little like this funny thing when these kind of opposition dare to criticize. That's funny, but I think a lot of kids don't think it's funny. They think it's funny.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u289	The representative may continue later if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u290	Mr President! With regard to these questions of social security pilots and freedom of choice: in the original war that I could perhaps stand behind, the whole freedom of choice would have been triggered by genuine piloting, not by this current philosophy of deciding first and then piloting in the interests of certainty when decisions have already been taken. Such piloting certainly does not represent my view of what piloting is intended to achieve, i.e. to gather experience and see whether the decisions to be taken are feasible at all. But as a matter of fact, I support Mr Kankaanniemi's proposals for amendments to the budget and statements under protest 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u291	Mr President! In fact, there was not much intention to say in the speech that we had just made. Congressman Harakka gave me the general lines. In my opinion, our protest is that when you look at this whole package, the good headlines are: ‘Better education and training for employment’, ‘A genuine active employment policy’. That is what we have not mentioned, and on one big issue we have already talked about earlier today, namely that it would have been the last time to correct this cut in holiday money. It could have been cancelled so that then, in fact, growth should be for everyone. President! We have taken on board in this protest those parts of our alternative budget that are currently open to the articles. Contrary to what Mr Kankaanniemi said, we are not in our alternative budgets to increase debt. We've been talking about it here for three years. We have proposed three different alternative budgets, and in all of us we have taken less debt than the government does. So let us also say that, even though our economic policy is different, we would do it in a fairer and therefore responsible way, so that we would take less debt from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u292	Mr President! In this protest, the Social Democrats raise an increase of more than EUR 300 million in expenditure and a reduction of EUR 100 million in expenditure. According to that old Ojala math, your proposal is in deficit of more than 200 million and would then be covered in this case by a new debt or by maintaining debt-taking higher than what is in the draft amending budget. We assume that we will correct this economy and make sensible investments now, which will strengthen it, and that this pilot money will really be spent in a sensible way. To the extent that I want to say to these pilots, I do not understand why there is this money and this authority now in this form, because now we are clearly seeing and we have seen for some time that the whole reform of social security will go a long way into the autumn before it can be adopted. Mr President, I think he has mentioned in some context that it will go until October before it can be dealt with, and the justification for that was — if not, I would like to withdraw — that the next additional budget or, if necessary, an additional budget could be given at any time if the reform moved forward. Now it seems that there are so many dead ends that it does not even move forward, which leaves the possibility that the extra budget will then do the job, but it is no longer a pilot, then it will be a premature implementation of the legislation. And why did I do that? I am well aware that the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, has accepted the use of up to EUR 200 million, a huge amount of money, for this purpose, because these pilots are trying to tie up this system so that it can no longer be dismantled, its absurdities can no longer even be dismantled. This has, of course, been recognised by other government parties in this way. In other words, this is a rather dubious procedure for the pilots to tie the hands of future decision-makers, when it is precisely a project whose experts in the Committee on Finance, for example, have said with a broad, almost unanimous view that it entails more costs, and the objectives originally set for the reform will not be achieved by this model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u293	Mr President! For the sake of clarity, these are the additions to the articles that are open. Of course, if we were to live in a reality in which, unfortunately, our opposition would have more power than this virtual power that we have here, and the obligation to do our own performances, then, of course, there would have been tax changes and others on the revenue side, for example, which would enable us to achieve this result. That there's nothing new about this in itself. President! Indeed, I would also like to draw attention to the news that Mr Kankaanniemi has just said that we have now received confirmation that the timetables are at least moving forward, which is, of course, positive and good, that it is now recognised that we are in no way able to keep to the timetable that the government has been seeking here. And, of course, we must hope that, in that sense, the whole reform of social security will take a step backwards so that these elections can now be placed on the shelf and then look at certain questions on a new basis. I would hope that this news could be such a preconception that perhaps not everything has yet been announced in church, if that is what you could say, that this is going to happen. But here we go. And I think, Mr President, that this criticism of the fact that this amending budget contains these pilots is entirely justified. That's why we have to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u294	Mr President! That is where Mr Kankaanniemi well described the fact that it would certainly be possible at any time to bring it into the next amending budget at the time when the laws were adopted. We heard from the Minister of Finance at the time of the referral that not a penny will be paid out until the laws have been adopted, and this will, of course, come from the line taken by the Constitutional Committee. But it has to be said above all about these pilots that they are currently running in the provinces. The problem is that it is a so-called extra money that would otherwise not be available in that province. It gives a slightly delusional picture of what that reality really is at that point. For example, when you think of my own country, North Savo, where we are already going from a distance to transport, we have an ageing and disease situation that is greater than the average in the country, and those calculations show that we are already seeing a shortage of millions there when we leave for transport. That truth will certainly be rather harsh if this funding starts with transport: that is to say, either the increases in customer fees that I have raised in previous discussions, depending of course on what kind of customer fee legislation is coming, or these reductions in services. It might be said that in some provinces — such as North Karelia, for example, you have started to implement your social welfare system — you have also come to situations where you have to cut and think about the savings, so that these individual pilot funds, for example, to try out a service voucher system or something like that, give you the wrong impression. It's extra money. They are the kind of money that is not coming through that normal distribution of money. In that sense, one might say that they are not actually pilots. They are experiments with a different type of financing structure than it will then actually be. In this respect, I agree with this criticism that these matters could certainly have been dealt with at the point when these laws were actually adopted. At the moment, there is so much uncertainty that even conditional additions of this kind would not have been necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u295	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 9/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u296	Mr President! The government's proposal at first reading means that the VAT Act will be amended as required by the directive on cross-border e-commerce. They're supposed to come from the beginning of next year. The purpose of the amendments is to facilitate and simplify the procedure for selling electronic services to consumers in another Member State or for selling electronic services to consumers in the Member States by an undertaking not established in the Union. At present, online traders domiciled in the EU have to register for VAT in all EU Member States where they sell their products if the sales volume exceeds the threshold set by that State. In the future, a Finnish company can apply the Finnish VAT rules if it chooses to sell up to EUR 10000. This change is a legitimate relief for very small companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u297	Mr President! This is, in that sense, extremely important for this sort of thing, could you say, debureaucratization, because we have a lot of, for example, very small companies selling children's clothes. It may be that the housewife does it there at night and realizes that even the guys are interested in these good products, and then maybe she wants to set up an online store. Indeed, it is possible, through this, to concentrate on selling these products only by registering in one single country of establishment, and I believe that this will help, in particular, these companies which are selling less than EUR 10000 per year. I must say that this is a good development in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u298	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 7/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-25-ps-72.u299	Mr President! It is a very good thing that this report, which came from the committee's deliberations, is unanimous, because then, in the referral debate here in the Chamber, there was perhaps a little misconception of what this implementation of the directive is actually intended to achieve. In other words, this will make it easier for third-country nationals who are indeed entering this region either as researchers or as students, as trainees or as volunteers, and will also ensure where they come from here in the EU. In this case, the Finnish legislation also ensures that they have such conditions as housing and voluntary work as to enable them to stay here, and that, on the one hand, this does not become a route to abuse and, on the other hand, does not actually seek to pursue, for example, the labour market of a country. In this national legislation, these au pair have been added here, and I understand that, because we in Finland have had a legislative gap at this point, and in that sense it is all right that it has been added at national level. But I remember in the European Parliament when this point was discussed that, because it had so many different practices across Europe, in this directive these au pairs fell out of this legislative framework at the very outset and it was stated that there was no way to find consensus on this. But there is indeed a desire to put the au pair's affairs in order at national level, and in that sense the committee's report is unanimous and shows that good and constructive cooperation has been achieved here. It is precisely this type of thing that will reduce the pressure for Europe to be pursued, for example, as asylum seekers, but there is actually the possibility of a third-country national coming along legal routes to Europe for the tasks and actions that have also been highlighted in this directive. And even this week, when there is certainly going to be a lot of discussion about this immigration policy in the EU, it should be understood that there are these legitimate routes and, for example, the directive on seasonal workers, which has already been put into national law and practice here, is one route that guarantees that third countries will be able to work in the Union for up to six months and then be able to return to their own country. If there are no such legitimate routes, then it will be used for the most expensive and quite inappropriate route, i.e. then, in North Africa, for example, to seek asylum on the European side.
