ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 2/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. First of all, the chairman of the committee, Mr Puumala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u2	Mr President! So there is really a question about upper secondary school law, from the Government proposal 41/2018. The aim of the proposal is to strengthen the quality of education... [Fresh—The President-in-Office] In order to achieve the objective of this law, the means include more individualised and flexible study paths, support and guidance for students during the learning process, studies across subjects and cooperation between higher education institutions. The basic units for the organisation and completion of studies are proposed as credits instead of the current course. The committee stresses the need to ensure adequate resources for reform. The Education Committee considers that the reform of the legislation on upper secondary school education is better suited to current and future needs and attaches great importance to it. The explanatory statement of the Government’s proposal describes well the needs of upper secondary school education, and this is also a good way to respond to them. President! A few observations on the various points of the law, to which the committee pays particular attention. First of all, the mission: The committee notes that the upper secondary school will continue to be a general education institution in which the various subjects are studied in a wide variety of ways. This will best contribute to building up the world view of high school students and their ability to make future choices. General education includes the management of knowledge and skills related to both humanities and mathematical and natural sciences. Upper secondary school education must include the key competences of students in postgraduate studies, civic capacity, democracy and the rule of law. These include, for example, the search for information, the separation of essential information from non-essential, the perception of different views and entities, media literacy and critical thinking. A thing that also does not grow old is understanding and meeting a person. The committee stresses a great deal of thinking skills. They are the skills that will be needed in the future, and it is good to identify them as part of the continuation of education. Regarding the structure and dimension of education, the Committee notes, among other things, that the aim of the proposal is to reform the teaching of upper secondary schools in order to promote the organisation of more extensive courses and studies across academic boundaries, to reduce the fragmented nature of upper secondary school studies and also to promote the development of comprehensive knowledge independent of the main content of subjects during upper secondary school studies, i.e. to cooperate across academic boundaries and to do so throughout the upper secondary school. The division of hours and the basics of the curriculum are still separate from those intended for young people and adults, as is the possibility of studying subjects. The draft law strengthens students' opportunities to develop their international skills, working life and business competence. There are no changes to the content of the teaching in the draft law. With regard to upper secondary school diplomas, the committee states: It is proposed that the regulation of upper secondary school diplomas should be raised from the level of the regulation to the level of the law. The committee welcomes the fact that students also have the opportunity to demonstrate their skills in subjects that are not included in the matriculation examination. According to the Government's proposal, the possibility of performing high school diplomas is presented to extend the scope of arts and crafts. They are intended to enable students to demonstrate their interest and familiarity with the different disciplines or their ability to apply the knowledge acquired in the course of their studies in a goal-oriented and long-term work. The upper secondary school diploma is an annex to the upper secondary school diploma, and the instructions for completing the diploma, the assessment criteria and the content of the certificate are provided by the Finnish National Board of Education. This will ensure equal practices at national level. According to the bill, high school diplomas continue to be voluntary. However, the committee calls on the Ministry of Education and Culture to clarify the obligation of all providers of education to change their diplomas in high school. In its reasonably long report on cooperation, the committee also says important things, including that the government's proposal strengthens the obligation of the providers of upper secondary school education to cooperate with higher education institutions. This ensures that all students have access to higher education studies and complete a course organised in cooperation with the university. It is important that this is possible on equal grounds for all. It must not depend on where in Finland the upper secondary school is located, but must be as possible in both rural and urban areas. This is something that we are paying considerable attention to. We also state the support of students: In the Government's proposal, the promotion of the well-being of students has been identified as one of the objectives of the reform. We stress that adequate support for learning and the maintenance of well-being are fundamental prerequisites for effective learning and a wider good learning environment. The guidance needs of upper secondary school students will increase, for example, as the role of the matriculation examination is strengthened in the student selection of higher education institutions. We have said this quite a long time. We are also saying about the prevention of bullying and harassment and the safe student environment, which should be a matter of course. In practice, however, this is not the case in virtually all situations. That is why we are paying particular attention to this in the report. As regards the quality of education, we say: we welcome the fact that it is still the responsibility of the providers of education to ensure the quality of education. The Committee notes, among other things, that the involvement of students in the development of education must be further strengthened. President! The Education Committee supports the adoption of the Government's proposal with amendments. The committee proposes, on the basis of more detailed reasons, an amendment to the draft law restricting the renewal of separate tests to students of their own. The committee proposes to reject legislative initiatives because there is no proposal to change the subject of upper secondary school syllabus in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u3	Mr President! The new law on high school is a long-awaited and needed reform. High school is now being reformed into the current version of the Platon Academy. What is good is preserved, such as extensive general education as a rock base, but otherwise the upper secondary school will be reformed to meet the needs of the future. In particular, I am delighted that the new law brings upper secondary schools closer to higher education institutions, which facilitates the transition to further studies. The situation is for win-win universities and students. The new law on upper secondary school enables every high school student to get acquainted with higher education studies now. When academic skills are already practiced in upper secondary school, higher education institutions will receive more ready-made student materials. The new upper secondary school law also supports equality of opportunity for students, as everyone can grow and develop to the full in their studies, including through university cooperation. The student receives instruction and guidance according to his/her baseline. All students are good at something, and the important thing is that everyone discovers their own strengths. Students have much more capacity for good performance than they have actively taken advantage of or have been enabled to do. That is why university cooperation brings a much-needed element to the everyday life of a high school to every student, and I believe that this cooperation should be further deepened. High school diplomas are also raised to a larger role. There are already excellent examples of cooperation in higher education. I take the example of Haukilahti High School, which is in the same campus with Aalto University, and the cooperation is very diverse and close: The credits are coordinated, common spaces and teachers are used, tailor-made courses that can be read at the university later. Even the pedagogical cooperation between high school teachers and university lecturers is flourishing. To make high school feel good, you have to make high school kids feel good. That's why we're strengthening special education and guidance. High school students get very pregnant from time to time and are easily exhausted. The fact that the assessment is valid and appropriate is also a major factor in success. A student needs to know what's expected of him, and here's a small place for teachers to get their attention. I am also pleased with the new high school law because, together with Congressman Timo Heinonen, we made a vision for the parliamentary group for the future of the high school in the last parliamentary term. The vision received strong and commendable support from all those involved in high school, and it contained the things that are now being proposed in this new draft law on high school. We are very grateful that the government, led by Minister of Education Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, has renewed this law on secondary school. It has received strong support from the entire upper secondary school field, and one might even say that this new law on secondary school is absolutely, to put it in a different sense, fantastic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u4	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mr Puumala, for presenting a good report. In social democratic education policy, upper secondary school is part of the upper secondary education system and a culture of education in which children and young people must be able to have access to education that is able to survive in society, to find employment and to be able to learn for life. We need an integrated, universal school path from a nearby school to a local school and then to a high school or a vocational school. Comprehensive education and equality in education are the main objectives of education policy. After the examination of the High School Act before us, we want to highlight four key issues: the general nature of the upper secondary school, the importance of the community of upper secondary school in the everyday implementation of a bill that may be too important for individuality, the comprehensive development of secondary education with the aim of a degree for all, as well as peace and predictability for teachers and students. I would also like to make a few critical remarks to us decision-makers about the reform of education and the arguments put forward for it. Maybe just being fantastic isn't always enough. Mr President! First of all, general education: In a changing world, thinking skills do not age. This was a strong message when the committee held an open hearing. Since thinking skills do not grow old, high school education is at its core and highly topical. As Professors Sari Kivistö and Sami Pihlström, in their recent book “Civil Defense ”reveals,are living in an anti-civilization climate where the phenomenon isrevealed and populist avalanches of thinking. KivistöjaPihlströmremembers that‘the rise in populism and the reduction in expertise and training An essential part of this educational project is the general upper secondary school, where everyone studies comprehensively and adequately all subjects. The upper secondary school must therefore not be developed unilaterally, for example in view of the short-term economic needs of the business community. A general approach is also the right way to respond to the needs of the working life of the 2020s and 2030s. After all, we know with certainty that we do not really know about the future, and that is precisely why the best way to prepare for the future is to safeguard the knowledge and knowledge of young people in a broad sense. So extensive education is the best antidote to online populism, trolling, fake news, and other phenomena threatening social peace as young people follow the media in increasingly diverse channels. The present draft law therefore emphasises general education and maintains the current division of hours. That's good. In the practical implementation of the phenomenon-based learning highlighted in the law, I am confident that teachers will be able to assess the types of content that are justified and the specific nature of the fields of scientific research that need to be understood. Mr President! Then from the second degree as a whole: Now that this Parliament has dealt with first the reform of vocational education and now the upper secondary school law separately, it is important to ensure that the overall view on the development of secondary education is maintained in our education policy. We also tabled a report on this subject in committee, and we must say that we were somewhat surprised that the government parties could not include such a basic issue in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u7	Mr President! This government proposal for a new secondary school law has been prepared in broad-based cooperation with those concerned. This is a good starting point for all policies, especially in education and training policy, and it is also reflected in the fact that the outcome has been largely praised. On the other hand, it is also easier to make everyone happy when the changes, as in this case, are smaller in form and do not touch, for example, the number of hours. Thank you for, for example, the efforts made by this government to facilitate the joint phase and strengthen student guidance and bullying. However, the proposal has also given rise to a necessary debate on the role and future of upper secondary school education. It is important for this debate to take place in this forum and in this Chamber. The first major policy debate concerns the general role of upper secondary education and the whole of secondary education. In a change in working life, it is increasingly important that both primary and secondary schools provide all Finns with better basic knowledge and skills. It will be terribly difficult to anticipate the precise skills requirements and tasks of future working life in advance. Instead, we can certainly draw the conclusion that the importance of knowledge and skills requirements will increase. The best basis for later learning and updating skills is precisely broad-based general education. There should be no disagreement on this. Yet many changes in high school education in recent years have taken the other way. The material reality forces specialisation from the first year onwards, and the choice of upper secondary schools reduced the scope of mandatory real materials. The increase in the weight of the matriculation examination through the student selection reform is a major change that affects education providers and students at both secondary and tertiary level. This will also lead to a development where students are expected to specialise in an earlier stage and where the already excessive strain and stress of upper secondary school students will increase. According to the Left Alliance, the provision of extensive general education must continue to be the primary and most important task of upper secondary school education. In connection with this law, it would have been possible to strengthen the general nature of upper secondary school education through the strengthening of the status of secondary school diplomas, and we would have liked to see this line in the committee's report. Diploma offers high school students the opportunity to provide evidence of their competence in arts and crafts. However, the possibility of completing the diploma has been voluntary for upper secondary schools, which is problematic in terms of equal opportunities for students. By securing equal opportunities for all students regardless of upper secondary school, this type of diploma is confirmed by the general task of upper secondary school education in the whole country. Another important change in the direction of general education would have been the direction of enabling everyone to study life’s outlook. Now it cannot be studied if you belong to a religious community that provides religious education. For example, in his report to Parliament this year, the Ombudsman for Children has stated that this regulation is an infringement of equality and is contrary to Article 2 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. According to the article, children must not be placed in a different position on the basis of their religion, political or other opinions, or of their parents or other guardians. If it were possible to study life views for all willing ones, equality would improve and we would take an important step in the direction of a common outlook on life. In connection with this proposal, there has also been concern that the different secondary study paths are differentiated rather than the whole second stage being developed comprehensively. Credits are now being introduced into upper secondary school education, but they are not in common with the skills points of vocational education or even with those used by higher education institutions. It is strange, as Mr Torsti pointed out, that the provision of capacity for continuing vocational education and training has been omitted from the article describing the purpose of high school. Similarly, the law on secondary school guidance also provides for the obligation to follow-up guidance in situations where a young person has completed a degree. There is no similar obligation for a graduate of vocational education and training, although the need for it is at least equal. When reforming the second level, equal rights must be ensured for students in both upper secondary and vocational education. Upper secondary school students also need more personal guidance. In order to ensure the quality of student guidance and, in particular, the adequacy of resources for personal guidance, we want the regulation to limit the maximum number of students to 200 per student guidance officer. Such dimensioning is also the desire of student counselors. The content of student guidance must also be made more gender-sensitive so that young people make more choices based on their interest, not on their gender. Mr President! At a later reading of the law, I will support Mr Torst's amendments and also make two motions for statements on the maximum number of student guidance subjects and this extension of the ex post guidance obligation to vocational training.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u8	Madam President! Representative Andersson pointed out that it is not possible to study philosophy if a youth is a member of a religious community in which religious education is organised. I would remind you, however, that today’s religious education does not include a confessional practice of religion, but instead it is good for everyone to get to know their own religion and the tradition of faith from which other religions can then be understood, just as their mother tongue and knowledge of it form the basis for learning other languages.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u9	Let us now take a few comments to this stage. You can use other things than this theme that just got up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u10	Mr President! I am not taking a stand on this matter of religion, I am taking a position on the second question. Now Mr Grahn-Laasonen is not here, but perhaps I will address my question to the chairman of the committee. I also want to thank you for the high school bill in many respects. It is mainly positive and includes a number of important reforms. But it was precisely this university cooperation that drew my attention, and I would like to ask how universities are resourced at the start of this cooperation, how to ensure that remote regions and smaller upper secondary schools have the same opportunities for university cooperation as others, and, lastly, how vocational schools cooperate with higher education institutions, because in the context of amisreform this kind of obligation has not been defined.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u11	Mr President! It is truly regrettable that this bill does not include opening up the study of life views to all high school students. At the moment, it is only possible for non-christian or representatives of minority religions whose teaching of their own religion is not organised. Even the Children’s Ombudsman stated that the legislation on religious education should be specified in order to ensure equal access to or non-participation in religious education for all children or, alternatively, in the teaching of philosophy. The Ombudsman's office also presented an amendment to its opinion to OKM. A high school student, regardless of his age, should always be able to choose whether to take part in the teaching of religion or life views, and it seems very strange that this law on high school could not be modernised in this regard. The situation of non-religious students would also improve as this supply of life - opinion education would be strengthened, especially in small upper secondary schools. I really would have liked this to have been brought into the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u12	Madam President! This law of law is also excellent in the opinion of experts. We also received good feedback on the preparation, for which I thank the Ministry. I was thinking in particular of Risto Linturi's expert speech, in which she spoke about the development of thinking, its importance, its general education, in which we learn to understand the whole, which is ultimately the most important gift and skill for those who went to high school. This is reflected in our report well and in the forthcoming reform of high school. This upper secondary school law also leads in a more individualised direction, which is an important issue for young people at that stage who do not necessarily know where they are going yet. This will then be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u13	Mr President! As Mr Andersson and Mrs Eloranta know perfectly well, this bill had been deliberately excluded from the scope of anything relating to subjects or subjects, and that is the reason why no changes were made this time. And while my personal opinion is also that in the future I would like to hope that life-conception knowledge will also be possible for those of the religions to study, in this context it was not possible to implement it for these reasons, because this restriction had been decided upon. In part, it has to do with the fact that these subjects and new curricula are still in the process of being drawn up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u14	Madam President! As many have already said, there is a good bill at hand with great potential. It is important that things are reformed. Personally, I would see this as a whole that at its best young people in the future in high school will have the opportunity to study in a community that is safe, free from bullying and harassment, which increasingly recognises the individuality of young people and is also able to provide support for it. All of this, of course, always requires resources, so that it is not guaranteed in itself by legislation alone. One of the elements I would like to highlight is special support and guidance, so it is really great that it is being taken forward and that no official diagnosis is required, for example, for this specific support, but that it can be evaluated. There raise these different factors and as one is also brought up in such things as social backgrounds, if there are problems in the family or life situation. In this context, I also think it is important to take into account the population groups experiencing discrimination and racism and their possible impact on equality, what will it do if a person is exposed to harassment, how it affects the psyche, the ability to study, so that we can also provide special support and guidance from that point of view. It also requires special professionalism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u15	Mr President! I share Mrs Eloranta's view that this legislation on religious education is outdated in this respect, and although this legislative reform does not change the subject content or the division of hours required to move to a common philosophy of life, it would have been possible to correct this issue of equality, i.e. to enable this choice to be made for all high school students, whether they belong to a religious community or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u16	Madam President! There has now also been a debate on this religious teaching and philosophy, although, as has been said, there are no substantive reforms in these matters. But it is good to remember why this is the case in Finland. It departs from the UN Treaty, which states that parents have the right to give their children education in accordance with their own convictions, and that is where all of their schemes are based. Of course, an 18-year-old high school student can decide for himself which religion he or she belongs to, and according to what he or she is also studying, the 15 to 17-year-olds always need permission from their parents, and the 12-year-olds need to be consulted. That is what these substantive issues are related to. But, briefly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is also a desire to extend this guidance to those who have already attended their high school, which is, in a way, to the very joint stage where many people are in danger of falling off the sled and not having a postgraduate study place, and this is an extremely good thing. We just have to ensure that the resources are sufficient to ensure that this does not just remain beautiful records in the law, but then, at municipal level, these resources are given enough to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u17	Mr President! There is a lot of good in this bill, and we have also heard in committee that the field is really satisfied with this bill. In my opinion, the rights to student guidance and special education are excellent things in this bill. But I share the concern that this cooperation with universities must not lead us to have upper secondary schools that may be located in remote or rural areas and which are somehow classified as ‘B’ schools. Indeed, we need to see how this develops, that this classification does not arise between high school and high school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u18	Mr President! Mr Kosonen raised the importance of student guidance here a little earlier, which is also quite rightly emphasised in this draft law. For a long time, we Finns have also highlighted the importance of investing in student guidance, including in our alternative budget last autumn. We are therefore pleased that this law, too, is being given strong attention in this upper secondary school law. However, we have concerns as to whether the training providers will be given sufficient resources not only to increase student guidance but also to realistically implement the reforms and changes contained in the other legislative proposals. This has been a point of view which has been clearly widely reflected not only in the expert hearings but also in this debate today. These actual costs for the providers of upper secondary school education have been clearly assessed at the bottom of the board's proposal and we demand that they be fully compensated in the following budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u19	Mr President! As has often been said in previous speeches across party boundaries, this reform of the secondary school law, the reform of the secondary school, is good and the content has received a lot of good feedback from both students and teachers from the upper secondary schools. It is good that this is now moving forward in a very good spirit. It will also bring about the reforms needed for the high school sector. President! There are still a few points I would have paid particular attention to. It was very good that an expert hearing while we were in the Committee on Education brought up this possibility of performing official Swedish or Finnish as part of upper secondary school studies. In other words, it may be worth explaining that in future high school this so-called civil servant Swedish or, of course, an officialFinnish could then be completed, and it would then be completed at that higher education level. I would like to repeat this as an alternative to further development of the subject of high school diplomas. This was not included in this report by the committee, but it is hoped that this over-activity will take place and, above all, that knowledge and skills relating to entrepreneurship and working life could also be made available there on the other side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u20	Madam President! Thank you for the introduction to Mr Puumala. It is a good thing that this law and report have taken into account generic skills, i.e. transferable skills. There is reference here to the search for information, the separation of essential information from non-essential, media literacy, critical thinking and so on. During my high school and teacher studies, I drew attention to the amazingly little attention paid to oral skills, speech skills and non-written communication in Finland. I managed to slip through high school and high school education so that only one study week, about one and a half credits, had oral skills. If we compare internationally, we are many countries behind. I would ask the Vice-President, Mr Multala, whether this oral communication has come up in committee in what way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u21	Mr President! I'll raise you a representative. From Torst's excellent speech to us demars, four main points are: strengthening the general nature of upper secondary school; then the importance of the community of secondary school; thirdly, the comprehensive development of secondary education; and fourthly, the peace and predictability of work for teachers and students. I'm only touching one thing. The aim of this proposal is to increase cooperation with higher education institutions. We believe that this is a well-founded objective, but there is too little cooperation which affects the whole of the second stage, including vocational training. We know that a significant proportion of graduating students continue in polytechnics. In some ways, such an idea that studies between upper secondary school and vocational education are not justified and that modern education, modern professional education, is also lacking. That is why we have an important statement on this and we do not understand why, for example, the Centre Party has opposed it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u22	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson said very well above these social democrats' emphasis on this good proposal in itself. There is a lot of good here, as has been said, and the resources must, of course, continue to be sufficient for all of this. President! I would like to make a specific point about the development of the third point presented by Mr Gustafsson, which I think is important. I would like to underline in this speech the debate that has often taken place in this Chamber on this free second level overall. I think it is very important for citizens to be actively involved in this and to be concerned that all our wonderful young people can afford a second degree and have the opportunity to study. That is why I think it is very important that, in all contexts, we also emphasise this objective of a free secondary level. I hope that this Parliament will also be able to move forward on this issue as a whole. President! As has been said, a good proposal, but of course the Social Democrats would have had a little more to offer. That is why we have an excellent difference of opinion written by our committee members.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u23	President! I also agree with the compliments. This is a carefully prepared bill, a moderate and realistic reform. The feet have not left safely in the air to reach the moon from the sky, but have left pragmatically, moderately to promote upper secondary school, the 2020s high school. The questions of leadership become very important in the way things go. The fact that leadership works at upper secondary school level is related to university cooperation, for example, so that it is carried out equally throughout Finland and also the implementation of student guidance. I wonder about this ideological debate around religion and philosophy. When different religions from abroad have received responsible instruction from their own religion, it has also helped to integrate into society. And then again, for example, we cannot think that the household would be taught only to read what is in the cookbook but not to taste.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u24	Madam President! I, too, would have liked to comment on the matter of philosophy and religious education, although, as has been said, the content of this has not been addressed, as Mr Multala has also pointed out. But just as in the previous speech, I myself have wondered about this confrontation. I would think that studying that religion would be good for everyone, whether or not it belongs to a religion. And for what? It is precisely because it would facilitate and help one another to understand one another. That is also what I say from practical experience. I myself have spent seven years studying in a study workshop where there were students from over 60 different countries and also shared dormitories and kitchens and so on with a great many students from different religions. And I personally feel that it helped me to understand a lot of practical measures when, in time, he had studied religions and even quite thoroughly. And I also think of high school as being at the age of being able to exchange opinions and so on. So, on the contrary, I would see this as a crime, and I do not see any reason for confrontation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u25	Mr President! There are many speeches here, the content of which is actually one that supports the idea of moving to a common religion and philosophy which is therefore the long-term goal of the Left Alliance and which is justified precisely in the way that Mr Tanus here spoke beautifully about the importance of interaction and understanding. We are not yet at the point where this is possible. As has been said, no changes have now been made to the subject or hourly distribution in the context of the reform of this law. On the other hand, it would have been possible, even in the context of the discussion of this law, to address this piece of legislation, which is problematic in terms of children's equality, which does not allow the choice of a philosophy subject, if the religious teaching of one's own religion is available, for those high school students who would like it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u26	Madam President! It is true that life’s outlook also includes knowledge of religions, but when a person is a member of a religious community, it is good that, in the same way that a person learns through his mother tongue and thus becomes better equipped to study other languages, it is good to get to know his or her own religious tradition and then get to know other religions from there. And I think that here this desire for change is partly based on an outdated view of what religious education contains, perhaps on their own school-time views. But as a matter of fact, I would like to point out that if you talk to high school students, this possibility that the grade of the matriculation examination can be increased without limitation is what comes up — it has been a little discussed here. And I'm surprised that the Finns are against it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u27	Congressman Tanus, your name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u28	Madam President! I would also have liked to see Mr Räsänen again underlining to Mr Andersson that, of course, we are going deeper in the subject of religion than in the philosophy of life. Like I said, I would see that it does provide the basis for that good understanding. I would also think that in high school it is a completely different matter to study the religion more deeply and to have a debatt, a debate on the subject and also to question it. This discussion will then continue with other students, including those of different religions. I myself have not received any such criticism from the high school sector again — which I have also listened to and heard from students. On the contrary, it has been well felt that things can be discussed if they are given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u29	Mr President! It is unfortunate in itself that we are now going on a sidetrack, around one subject, this debate, but I cannot bear to say in this connection: How important is religious literacy in a modern complex world? If religion is taught in some extreme movements and if people’s religious education comes through some extreme movements, it inevitably leads to an extremely dangerous situation and the spread of various negative radical phenomena in society. When religious education and world-view education take place more widely under the control of society, it also allows for a high-quality and responsible education. I believe that this law does not prevent the teaching from being carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u30	Mr President! This really is going to pass this bill now and only shows that it is a very good bill. I see everyone agrees, and now we're talking about fence stakes. But here we have the State Church, and for so long...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u34	I will take six more replies to this and then we will go to the list of speakers. Then we'll have a little debatt, if necessary. These six persons are Eloranta, Puumala, Torsti, Kosonen, Andersson and Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u35	Mr President! Today, when we are discussing this high school law, we are also focusing on the learning conditions of upper secondary school students, i.e. the fact that the services of student and student care are quite inadequate today in many places. Inequality in access to services for upper secondary school students has increased. According to a study by the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, up to 70% of the municipalities that responded have not been able to organise student and student care services in accordance with the requirements of the Student and Student Care Act, which entered into force in 2014, and this despite the fact that we have mental disorders which are among the most common health problems among young people, up to 20-25% of young people suffer from them. It is quite short-sighted to save on these very services, because it will, of course, come back at a higher cost later on. Indeed, when developing and providing resources for upper secondary school education, better attention needs to be paid to this improvement in school well-being. It is good that this presentation now brings more of that guidance, but also this other welfare side should be given greater attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u36	Mr President! If you will allow me two minutes, I will answer these four questions to the committee. As the first representative, Aalto asked three very well-founded questions. He asked if the resources were sufficient for this cooperation in higher education. They must be enough, and the committee's report stresses this very strongly, and it also states that the practical instrument is the outcome of these discussions with universities. We have been given a very strong understanding from the ministry that this issue has already been taken into account and the universities are well aware of it. We are counting on this information. Secondly, he asked how to ensure that all upper secondary schools have the opportunity to cooperate with higher education institutions. It must introduce distance and multi-form education, which we also refer to in the report. I myself would like to see new innovative ways. There's a lot of opportunities here. Thirdly, he asked how cooperation with vocational schools would be carried out. On this point, the Ministry of Education has set up a separate working group, i.e. to develop cooperation between vocational schools and universities. That work is on the move now, and we hope very much for it. Personally, I hope that in the future, when reforms are made to the second stage, they will always touch both upper secondary school and vocational school together. This would provide a good basis for this cooperation between upper secondary schools and vocational schools to be very good. Personally, I wish there could be more. Last, fourth, Mr Kiuru asked whether the oral skills — debate, debate — were on the agenda. Not so much, because it was not in the content, but the content was not changed, but otherwise it has been discussed in committee on several occasions that we need even more oral skills in the school system. That's the way we're going now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u37	Exceptionally, I allowed Mr Puumala, as chairman of the committee, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u38	Mr President! First, the debate on this much-needed presentation. That is indeed the case, but it must also be said that I noticed that, for example, quite extensively that training researchers' guard was able to reflect on a number of issues in this proposal only after this was almost dealt with in committee, and it was precisely this, for example, that Mrs Puumala rightly raised the issue of secondary development — in pieces or as a whole — and, on the other hand, the arguments put forward about the means, such as those proposed or not, for example, for phenomena-based learning. But this is what we will return to as we continue this development of education in this country. Secondly, I would like to raise an objection which was made in cooperation with the SDP, the Left Alliance and the Greens. Thank you also for this cooperation on this point. There is an opportunity to comment on these resources in terms of student guidance. There is also the opportunity to comment on the high school diplomas promoted by Mr Jarva, and there is the opportunity to comment on this optional participation in the philosophy of life, the content of which I am not going to go to. But this will be an opportunity to vote here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u39	Mr President! Just as Mr Puumala said there, the resources for this reform must also be secured in the committee's view, because there are quite a few new kinds of things to do with upper secondary schools. I would also like to highlight this high-school diploma, which can be used not only to show skills in writing but also to show skills in arts and crafts. It has been done in the past, but it should be extended to other areas. It has also been well taken into account in this debate that university cooperation and that not all upper secondary schools have the same distance and proximity to higher education institutions when they do not exist in all localities, and it is good that the Ministry of Education and Culture has already started planning support measures to ensure this cooperation for all, even small, upper secondary schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u40	Mr President! Mr Vahasalo asked whether the opposition meant extending compulsory education when it came to comprehensive development. That's not what we're talking about. When we talk about extending compulsory education, we talk about extending compulsory education — or extending the right to study in the case of the Central Party — but when we talk about developing a comprehensive secondary level, it is more about not creating unnecessary barriers or allowing these two different equals to differ too much. However, the strength of the Finnish educational model is that we have two equal educational paths after comprehensive school, which should then be possible to continue studies either on the second level or through higher education studies. One of the concerns raised by this proposal is that these different competence point and credit systems differentiate between these study paths, as well as these differences which have now arisen with regard to the obligation to post-secondary guidance in this course, when vocational education and upper secondary school education have been renewed separately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u42	Mr President! The fact is that the second level is an important step in the sense that we hope that every young Finnish youth will do so. I'm sure that's everyone's goal. However, the difference between vocational and upper secondary school is that vocational school is completed into a profession and upper secondary school is not. I wanted to make a quick comment on this oral appearance: in the style of an oral diploma, there is already the basis for the evaluation produced by the Finnish National Board of Education, which will continue to be possible in the future. Finally, as a comment on this limitless possibility of renewal, the committee made a statement, as has been pointed out, in order to monitor its effects. However, experts estimate that the number of renewals is unlikely to increase so significantly, because in the same context we will increase
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u43	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, Mr Puumala, the chairman of the committee, and Mr Andersson, Mr Vahasalo, have already responded well to the question of what this comprehensive development of the second stage is. Among other things, Mr Puumala said and agrees with us that when reforms are being made in the field of upper secondary school or vocational education, they should be evaluated and carried out together as far as possible. For example, it may concern the provision of education, and I am thinking in particular of small upper secondary schools across Finland, which could work together to genuinely help and serve young people in the organisation of education. For example, this post-secondary guidance, to which Mr Andersson referred, is now lacking in vocational education and training, where it may be needed more than in upper secondary school. And I'm sorry, Mr. Vahasalo, you whisper from there that this is a youth school. Now come out of those old trenches. We are talking about the education policy of the 21st century, where the results of vocational education and cooperation in upper secondary school, when they work well, are absolutely excellent for young people: double degrees, triple sessions and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u44	Well, let's take this as a response to Mr. Vahasalo and Mr. Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u45	Mr President! Yes, we have two different degrees, as you said, or three different degrees, as you said, and cooperation between high school and professional education is being and has been intensified. About 4 percent of secondary students do both different degrees, and it is fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u50	Mr President! We, too, are in favour, indeed, of cooperation, of extensive cooperation between upper secondary schools and vocational education and training, of using common teachers where possible, common spaces and so on. It's a long list. We are in favour of a double degree and we really hope that this will be developed and made possible locally. I agree that, for example, this post-secondary guidance, which now comes to the upper secondary school children, should also be developed for vocational education in the future, so that they can have the same opportunity to do so — given, of course, what Mr Multala said, that vocational education will get a profession and that upper secondary school will go to study somewhere. But we are not in favour, absolutely not under any circumstances, of any kind of confusion or desire to reduce this limit, because they have different educational, educational policy objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u51	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u52	Mr President! “All things were known. “ That was the idea when we first put on the matriculation examination cap at the spring party in high school. But that was all we could have been wrong. The matriculation exams and the rush of graduation soon changed to wonders about the direction of one’s life, where and what to go to study: are people there familiar with what it really takes to study at a university, and what is it like? Upper secondary school reform is a major education that will increase the attractiveness of upper secondary school. Our Minister of Education is particularly grateful for the fact that the reform has taken account of the joint phase of education. The choice of the right field of education will be facilitated by reforming both the upper secondary school itself and the university selection procedure. Finnish young people start university studies on average three years older than in many other European countries. Only about one third of the recent students continue directly to higher education institutions. First of all, we have already seen this spring how universities have reduced their heavy and long-term tests of admission. The entrance exams must reward motivation and suitability for the industry. Modernising upper secondary school education provides a strong cultural basis for this work. Learning from the outside and testing the sitting muscles are not suitable for a modern education system. Second of all: Upper secondary school will offer more personal guidance for studying and support for future education choices. During the course of the studies, there is widespread support for learning. This is also the answer to the hopes of high school students who have now found the education and career guidance they have received to be too limited. For the first time, there will also be an obligation for upper secondary schools to provide students with special education if this is necessary. In future, the guidance obligation of upper secondary school will not end at the matriculation examination, but, for example, after graduation, secondary guidance will also be given to educational choices. And perhaps the most important and career-friendly solution for students is that cooperation between upper secondary schools and higher education institutions is intensified with the new law. Every student has the opportunity to try higher education studies if they wish already during upper secondary school, which makes it easier for them to choose a suitable field of education. A concrete opportunity to take part in the lecture itself is worth more than any study guide. First-hand experience makes it easier for students to move from upper secondary school to higher education. However, it must also continue to be remembered that adequate recovery and rest and hobbies for young people are important for the survival of young people. I don't think we should start havin' a bargain. Mr President! The new student does not know everything in the future, but the renewal of upper secondary school education ensures that future students have stronger skills and knowledge for life. We need real new world migrants who are open to our universities and who are also critical of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u53	Mr President! In my speech, I will focus on two things. One relates to the conditions for studying a high school student and the other to this debate on beliefs and spectators, I would like to say a few words about it. Firstly, indeed, as I mentioned earlier, student and student care services are at a rather inadequate level at the moment. Inequality has increased in the availability of student and study care services between municipalities for upper secondary school students. According to a study by the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, 70 per cent of the municipalities responsible have not been able to organise student and student care services in accordance with the requirements of the Student and Student Care Act, which entered into force in 2014. According to a report by the Regional Government Office, there are too few psychological services available in schools and educational institutions. The Chancellor of Justice has drawn attention to the lack of school psychology services in 2010, 2011 and 2012. Mental health disorders are among the most common health problems among young people, and according to various studies, up to a quarter of young people suffer from them. Self-destruction is also common in youth. Every day 12 people retire from disability because of depression, and half of them are young people under 30 years of age. It is therefore very shortsighted to save student and student care or other matters that increase the well-being of students, because the inadequacy of these services will later be avenged at much higher costs, including the incapacity of young people to work for the rest of their lives, not to mention human suffering for themselves and their loved ones. The Student and Student Care Act also obliges the organisation of school psychology services in upper secondary schools. However, the psychologist is only 75% of upper secondary schools. Using different sources, it can be estimated that around 60 per cent of the psychological services required are missing in Finland. At the same time, the mental health problems of young people are constantly increasing, and indeed in the results of the THL school health survey, especially for girls, depression, anxiety and school fatigue are also on the rise not only in primary school but also in secondary schools. The same was seen in the welfare studies of the Upper Secondary Education Union. Up to 70 per cent of the respondents experienced fatigue weekly, and 30 per cent of high school students had difficulty sleeping weekly. It is important, therefore, that when discussing upper secondary school education, when developing it and providing resources for it, real attention is paid to improving school well-being, because high school students themselves feel that their studies are too burdensome. That is why greater attention must be paid to promoting psychosocial well-being, reducing school bullying, increasing school satisfaction, strengthening social cohesion and adequate support, and it is good that this bill has improved these. I hope that the guidance of the studies will be improved as well. Mr President! It is truly regrettable that this bill does not include opening up the study of life views to all high school students. At the moment, it is only possible for those who are not in church or for those who do not have their own religious education at school. Viewers should be examined in the same way as other subjects, and the section on this should be deleted as unnecessary. As an alternative, the student should be able to choose which religion or philosophy he or she is studying — as I have already told him about the position of the Ombudsman for Children in this regard. Indeed, even unreligious students would be better off as the supply of life - opinion education would be strengthened, especially in small upper secondary schools. In this respect, the amendment of the law would not even require a change to the decision on the subject matter and the division of hours, nor to the national grounds or curricula of the curriculum. However, an even better way forward would be to move on to the doctrines of belief and spectral knowledge shared by all. It could very well have been included in this high school bill. It is good to remember that the teaching of religion has been considered to play a very central role in increasing tolerance and understanding. It is important that the school provides students with the opportunity to understand both their own and other religions and lifestyles in relation to each other and more widely in relation to culture and society. This is also particularly important from the point of view of the development of tolerance among young people. In the light of the above, our current system can no longer be considered appropriate; therefore, regardless of religion, we should move to the teaching of a common subject of religious knowledge and ethics, a doctrine of religion and view, which deals widely with different world views and religions, as well as the content of students' own life related to religion, tolerance and understanding. This doctrine of religious and spectral knowledge would include not only values education and ethics but also different religions and world views, focusing on our own mainstream religion, Evangelical Lutheran Christianity, and world views. This approach is applied in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, England and part of the German Länder. It should also be noted that the Finnish system is not in line with the Council of Europe's recommendation of the 21st century that religious education should be academic in origin. This position is based on the idea that knowledge and understanding of the world’s religions and views contribute to preventing the emergence of intercultural conflicts, while at the same time religious learning is believed to support historical and cultural literacy. This lesson, shared by all, would bring many benefits. This subject would have the same treatment for all students regardless of religion, which would promote equality and equality in teaching. At the moment, the teaching of all students' own religion cannot even be organised. In the current situation, the pressure to increase the number of religions to be taught continues to increase, for example, the Bahai religion, mandeaism, Buddhism and so on. At the same time, problems with the availability and qualifications of teachers are becoming more difficult. There is no longer a need to rely on teachers outside school in a common subject. Thus, the current way in which religion is taught does not support dialogue between young people living among different religions, even though religious issues are becoming more and more important as society becomes multicultural, especially here in the capital region and other major cities. Value issues are highlighted at the same time as religion is increasingly visible in the everyday life of young people, especially in the most multicultural areas. There are far too few opportunities for important issues, such as human growth and life management, together with the entire class. Today, students break apart when dealing with these important issues of world view, education, morality, and ethics. I would have liked this to have been included in this law in order to make things better. As far as this unlimited renewal of matriculation examination is concerned, I think it is very important at a time when grades are more important in the pursuit of higher education. It is very important that you can do new things as many times as you need to, even if you have fallen ill when the articles are.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u54	Värderade Talman! Lagförslaget motsvarar morgondagens behov och jag tycker att det är Jättebra att förutom att det concretear kunskap så betonar det också färdigheter som behövs i livet, i studierna och på arbetsmarknaderna. Sådana färdigheter är öjligheter och kunskap till kritiskt tänkande, att kunna söka information, samarbete och så vidare, så det är Jättebra att lagförslaget också tar fasta på de rai färdigheterna. Jag tycker också att det är Jättebra att lagförslaget innehåller öjlighet till personligare studyval, men det är definitivt inte ske på bekostnad av den allmänbildande gymnasieutbildningen. Det är oerhört viktigt att den allmänbildande functionen starkt finns kvar. Också små gymnasier måste kunna svara mot det ox behovet av mer personliga val.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u55	Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the law on the organisation of the matriculation examination and the law on the financing of education and culture is a necessary and well-founded whole in many respects, although it must be said that there is nothing revolutionary new about this legislative package as such, for example the division of hours remains unchanged. However, the reform of the upper secondary school law underlines the importance of general education in upper secondary school education and the importance of education in general in our rapidly changing world. The aim of this presentation is, among other things, to increase the attractiveness of upper secondary school education and the further qualifications it produces, as well as to facilitate the transition to higher education and promote the well-being of upper secondary school students. We Finns support these goals, even though these legislative proposals also contain a few practical aspects that require further consideration. As has been said here, providers of upper secondary school education will in future be obliged to provide career planning and study-related guidance to persons who have completed upper secondary school but who have not completed further studies. Similarly, guidance on applying for other studies must be offered to students who have dropped out of upper secondary school. As I pointed out in my previous speech, investing in student guidance is a completely correct trend that has long been required by the Finns of Finland. One of our concerns, however, is whether the organisers will be given sufficient resources to carry out study guidance and other legal changes realistically. Indeed, this aspect has also been strongly raised in the expert hearings. Based on these, the additional costs for upper secondary schools have been strongly estimated at the lower deck. As I said earlier, the additional costs actually incurred by the providers of upper secondary education must be fully reimbursed in future budgets, not only in part, as is now being done. Mr President! The obligation of the organiser of upper secondary school education included in the bill to cooperate with other providers of education must be supported and the choice of upper secondary school students increased. In addition to university cooperation, the cooperation with liberal educational institutions such as summer university, added to the legal text of the committee, strengthens the ability of educational institutions to offer diverse education throughout Finland, regardless of the location or size of the upper secondary school. The Finns of Peru thank the entire Committee on Education for the fact that this important entry was added to the law in good agreement. Cooperation with the labour and business sectors is also positive. Mr President! Particular attention should be paid to securing the operating conditions of small upper secondary schools in particular in the future. The activities of small upper secondary schools are important for achieving regional equality. Studying in a small upper secondary school can also increase the unity and community of students and improve the sense of security. This also underlines the importance and importance of small upper secondary schools throughout the country. It is good that, in this debate in Parliament too, there has been broad attention to this issue. Mr President! Cases of bullying in upper secondary schools need to be addressed in time and more effectively than at present. The principal and teachers of upper secondary school should be obliged to address bullying, violence and harassment at school or on their way to school, and report this to the guardian of the minor student who committed and targeted them. We do not believe that this aspect of the government's proposal has been sufficiently taken into account, even though it has been taken into account. We will therefore propose an amendment to the paragraph which would oblige the school teacher or principal to take concrete steps to stop bullying, violence and harassment in school or school travel, and to inform the guardian or other legal representative of the minor student who has committed them and who is the subject of them. We also feel that this is very necessary in order to eradicate the unfortunately frequent bullying in upper secondary schools. Mr President! In this context, the law on the organisation of the matriculation examination is amended. If the proposal were implemented, the student could renew the matriculation examination more often than before. A person who has completed a qualification would be able to renew approved and rejected tests without restriction. The views expressed in the expert hearings on this change varied widely, and the arguments can certainly be put forward both in favour and against. However, the True Finns do not consider it appropriate for the grades of the matriculation examination to be increased completely without limit. We will therefore table an amendment in detail to limit the number of performances, in line with the views of the Gaudeamus igitur Group, which considered the development of the matriculation examination. We're going to pretend that the approved test will be re-tested twice. With regard to the rejected test, we propose that it may be renewed three times during the course of the examination, as well as after the completion of the examination. Even then, the student would have more renewals at his disposal, but not limitless. Mr President! The unlimited possibility of renewal in the draft law would create financial, space and equipment problems for upper secondary schools. The increased number of writers would probably also generate unforeseen additional costs for upper secondary schools, despite the committee's restriction. Mr President! According to expert reports, only about 5% of the new entrants to the approved test succeed in raising grades. Furthermore, unlimited renewals would not serve the important objective of speeding up the transition from upper secondary school to further studies. This issue is, of course, closely linked to the proposed admission test reform. The possibility to apply for further studies through entrance exams must be maintained as an important access point for universities. The entrance exams still have their own role as a measure of both suitability and motivation for the field, even at a slightly older age and regardless of the applicant's educational background, which would also contribute to the realisation of the equality of students. Mr President, this avenue of excellence should not be blocked or substantially reduced in future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u56	Madam President! Society is changing, and society's institutions, including educational institutions, must change along with it. This law is very good. I would like to thank Minister Sanni Grahn-Laasos and the chairman of the committee, Mr Puumala, as well as the committee as a whole for your work. Here are some withdrawals that I consider important: First of all, it is important that upper secondary school continues as a form of general education. There seems to be too much historylessness in society. You have to know a little background, you have to know the history of your own country, other countries and the whole world, so that you can somehow attach to it now and relate to it accordingly. Changes in upper secondary school: In the '80s, when I myself wrote as a matriculation student and then later at the University of Turku I read history and social studies as a teacher, only some of those skills and knowledge are relevant anymore. Of course, facts remain in part, but, for example, didactics have changed completely: generic skills, i.e. transferable skills, search for information, delimitation of non-essential information, media literacy, source criticality, cooperation skills. In due course, these skills were not highlighted in the way they are being done today, and this change is very good for them to be given more attention. In that debut, I brought up oral skills. We have a history of emphasising and continuing to emphasise literary skills. Oral skills, speech skills, communication skills are not just written skills. It is important, and it will continue to be important, I will not belittle it, but when you go out to the world, you work in different jobs, you work with your colleagues, you have to know how to tell it, you have to be concise, you know how to negotiate, you have to live up to it, and if you have not practiced it, you may not be able to do it the way you would like it to be. In the USA, for example, oral skills and their appreciation are on a completely different level than in Finland. It is not specifically mentioned here, but the oral art as such pervading principle is worth raising in all doctrines to appear, and thus certainly more is done. Then I'll take a few more things from here. Firstly, the committee's report has also raised the issue of student support, and that is very good. Young people are living in a delicate moment, and finding their own outlines of the future is not an easy task, and there are more and more of these options today. More and more of us have to study, or in fact have to study, new occupations, constantly update our own skills, and when we are in high school, we need adult support, support for education and career selection in the way described here. And then, finally, It is good that this issue of bullying and harassment has been raised here in its own place. The organiser of the education is obliged to protect the student against bullying, violence and harassment. Of course, this is obvious, but since the practice is harsher, this issue should also be raised here, as has been pointed out. The Education Committee requires that bullying be zero tolerance, and to this I would say zero tolerance should apply not only to pupils but also to teachers. Teachers do important work, and all too often they find themselves in awkward and oppressive situations. Bullying comes from many different directions, and everyone should be able to act tactfully toward teachers as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u57	Madam President! The aim of this government proposal is to reform upper secondary school education so that it will be able to meet the challenges of societal development, new knowledge and skills requirements and further learning and changes in working life in the future. When you look at the above objectives, one important theme of the reform of upper secondary school is also the strengthening of the household in upper secondary school. As chairman of a 25-year-old household support ring, I would like to draw attention to the household and high school diplomas in this connection. The household is a comprehensive, social and multidisciplinary subject. The household learns everyday skills and life management, equality, co-operation, food culture, living and acting as a consumer. Household studies are functional and interactive. The learned knowledge is applied in practice and is essential for the student's own life and well-being. Household education follows the change in society and raises issues about the world of young people. It prepares for working life by teaching critical thinking, problem-solving skills, economic skills and technology skills. Digitalisation highlights consumer competence and data acquisition in everyday skills. Payment and conclusion of contracts take place online. Society becomes serviced, and the acquisition of services requires more knowledge than the purchase of an individual product. New household skills are no longer passed on from one generation to the next, but need to be learned at school. The indebtedness of young people and the lack of economic competence are regularly highlighted in different forums. Strengthening household education in upper secondary school responds to this need. At upper secondary school level, students' understanding and interest in economic matters would allow them to deepen household education in economic and consumer matters, in housing content and in the well-being of the individual and family. In upper secondary school household education, phenomena and trends that have a broad impact on society, such as climate change and digitalisation, can be concretely addressed and operational capacity developed for future households. Household education integrates other subjects and supports their learning, engages in multiple-reading and provides a broad range of post-graduate and working life skills. In some primary schools there is an opportunity to study the household as an optional subject. Upper secondary schools have a common household for all, and the household is also one of the most popular optional subjects. The household is therefore part of the whole art and art education of basic education. However, the continuum is lacking, as it is hardly possible to study the household at second level. Household education is lacking in vocational education and there are no more economic schools. Thus, there will be a long break on the general path of the household before the university’s household teacher’s education and household studies. In some upper secondary schools it is already possible to study households, and household upper secondary school diplomas are conducted annually, but unfortunately only a few. In order for students across the country to be on an equal footing, all upper secondary schools should have the opportunity to study the household. The possibility of a high school diploma, as has been said, is in part of the upper secondary schools. It is a good thing that the government's proposal now raises the high school diplomas to the level of the law. However, it still remains optional. There will be no obligation to upper secondary schools, and thus there will be no equal opportunities for students to complete high school diplomas. Of course, a study on the compulsory nature of high school diplomas was promised in the future. We would like to see attention paid to upper secondary school diplomas and to enable them to be carried out, although there is not yet any obligation to do so. However, household education in upper secondary schools should not continue to depend solely on high school diplomas. In the future, the household must be taught in upper secondary school development work, legislation and curriculum work. It would be good to have 1 to 3 optional courses on household education. Based on the syllabus of the courses, you could participate in the matriculation examination of the household in the future. In Ireland, for example, the household is one subject for matriculation exams, as is Japan. The education of the university’s household teacher has created skills for teaching the household in upper secondary school for years. New knowledge does not therefore need to be created, but already existing resources need to be mobilised. Attention must also be paid to the choice of university students. The student should be able to take advantage of the upper secondary school’s arts and arts studies in order to pursue his/her studies in arts and arts. The scoring tool must have the opportunity to take into account the high school diplomas of arts and crafts. In conclusion, I would like to take a moment to highlight the preciousness of high school. As regards study material, it has been said that the total cost of completing upper secondary school can rise to EUR 2,600. The costs of study material for students must be reduced. State aid could reduce these costs while at the same time improving the equality of students. The acquisition of study material is particularly challenging for many low-income families, especially if there are several children. Care must be taken not to interrupt or hinder the study of children of deprived families, such as single-parent and multi-child families, because the funds are not sufficient for the necessary equipment to study. In spite of family background or wealth, all upper secondary school education must also be secured and made possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u58	Madam President! This draft law on upper secondary school has been prepared well and in close cooperation with stakeholders in connection with the New High School tours. Taking into account the views of the field and the experts brings important added value to this legislation. Comprehensive general education and academic skills are future skills. Internationalisation sets new demands for knowledge. In today's society, there is a particular need for interaction, problem-solving and technology skills, multiple literacy, critical thinking and creativity. Upper secondary school studies also develop the student’s skills to justify their views and work together, sharing their skills. The prerequisites for a good individual's life include aesthetic and ethical competence, self-awareness and general management of life and everyday life and good health. As we have heard here several times today, high school diplomas are now being brought into the law. It is good that students also have the opportunity to demonstrate their skills in subjects that are not included in the matriculation examination. According to the bill, the award of upper secondary school diplomas will remain optional. Although I am not generally in favour of excessive regulation, I believe that in order to achieve the equality of students, high school diplomas should be binding on all education providers. It is also worth exploring in the future how more effective use could be made of diplomas and cross-substance work carried out during upper secondary school studies when applying for further studies. The representative, Mr Tanus, has just raised the household, but I would also raise entrepreneurship to one that might include the possibility of a diploma. There's a lot of cross-cutting skills in there. It should also be possible to demonstrate its expertise in a more diverse way than is currently the case. Projects, group work, work samples should be built into packages, kind of folders, portfolios that could serve as a key indicator of competence when applying for a university position. I believe that such textbooks would motivate students to engage more closely in upper secondary school studies starting from the first grade. All young people attending upper secondary school must be guaranteed equal opportunities to study in a wide range of different subjects in order to be able to find among them the most necessary and interesting subjects for further studies. From the perspective of the equality of students, it is important that they are guaranteed adequate contact education in all subjects regardless of the size and location of the upper secondary school. And, as stated in the previous speech, it must be possible for a young person to complete secondary education regardless of the family's wealth. In fact, the government decided in the budgetary plan to grant learning material to students under 20 years of age in low-income families. This financial support to improve the equality of young people applies to students in both upper secondary and vocational education. It is also important to enable young people to participate in upper secondary school education from home by ensuring the accessibility of upper secondary school education through a nationwide upper secondary school network. In small municipalities, co-operation between upper secondary school and basic education and joint material teachers can provide quality education. In this law, the providers of upper secondary school education become obliged to cooperate with higher education institutions. This ensures that everyone has access to higher education studies and completes a course organised in cooperation with the university. The long-standing cooperation between upper secondary schools and higher education institutions has already been surprisingly high in both large and small upper secondary schools in different parts of Finland. This shows the need for cooperation, and it is good that it is now also recorded in the law. There is concern here that it is important to ensure that cooperation is possible for all upper secondary schools, including those with no higher education, and that there is also a need for mutual cooperation between higher education institutions. The impact of the digitalisation of education and studies on learning and the well-being of students is not yet well known. For students with learning difficulties, the effects can be multi-directional and surprising. In the future, we must ensure that we do not create a new threat to the equality of students and increase the risk of exclusion in our studies. In this context, it should also be mentioned that they must not be an obstacle to the completion of an electronic matriculation examination. Mr President! Here today, there has been a very strong presentation of philosophy and religion in subjects. As has already been said, this proposal has not touched on subjects, their content or their number of hours. But it should also be pointed out that other subjects were also strongly raised in the committee consultation. In particular, experts were concerned about the level of mathematics and, more generally, the level of knowledge in science, which will require further reforms in both basic education and upper secondary school. In upper secondary school, students must have access to individual and advanced studies. And let me say a few brief words about cooperation in education and training in the second stage. Cooperation is very much to be welcomed and it is important that both institutions apply for cooperation. This law and the law of vocational education and training do not prevent cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u59	Mr President! Really, this high school law is one of the government's best performances. It may be unfortunate to say, but in a week or two, when the early childhood education law comes here, with the existing knowledge, the situation will be quite different. It's a big trouble. Mr President! Comprehensive education and equality in education are key objectives of the education policy of the social democrats. The task of upper secondary school is to provide good general education, develop problem-solving and creativity, and strengthen critical and logical thinking. In an internationalising world, diverse language skills are particularly valuable. There is also a need for strengthening critical thinking, new forms of learning, a sense of community – which we have so much backed up in this debate – and closer interaction with the society around it. I believe that the content of upper secondary schools must be more geared towards learning across subjects, which highlights the multidisciplinary approach. As far as I can see, upper secondary school education is overemphasized in preparation for matriculation examination and accordingly the general objectives of upper secondary school education are under-emphasized. I therefore believe that the mere increase in optionality does not meet the needs of high school students. In upper secondary school, students should not be forced into premature, non-essential choices. Particular attention must be paid to the quality of upper secondary school guidance in order to implement individual study paths and speed up the application process for post-secondary studies. At present, the vast majority of those who apply from upper secondary schools to higher education do not have a clear picture of what different fields of study lead to. The aim should therefore be to invest more in upper secondary school studies in working life, in study time and leisure time, which can help to clarify the understanding of higher education curricula, which speeds up access to higher education and reduces error choices. I'm sure this is where this wider cooperation with higher education institutions is going to start. The development of upper secondary school education and the resources available for it must pay particular attention to this improvement in school well-being. High school students find their studies too stressful. Therefore, greater attention needs to be paid to promoting psychosocial well-being, reducing school bullying, increasing school comfort, strengthening social cohesion and adequate support. Mr President! In the debate already held here, the Social Democrats raised this vision of cooperation between high school and vocational education and training in the Government's draft law, which was very weak in terms of oxygen. This cooperation between upper secondary school and vocational education and training is, in my opinion, such a modern knowledge and education mindset, and if I may now quote the opinion of Sakka ry, for example, to the Committee on Education, Education and the Media, they would also have liked to see a more accurate record in the law of increasing the obligation to cooperate between upper secondary schools and vocational institutions — that is to say, they would like to see a real strengthening of cooperation. Facilitation of dual qualifications and cooperation in language teaching would be, for example, areas where existing cooperation could be enhanced. Of course, there is also the development of a financial model which has not now come up in this context, and we would have liked to see, for example, this big reform of vocational education and high school reform going more than hand-in-hand. And now I would like to reiterate that, although Mr Vahasalo is not present, high school has its own role and vocational education and training has its own role. There's no one here to spend any more time in the youth school. I'm sorry to keep telling you this, but I'm also plagued by the attitude bourgeoisity of not getting to know enough things, but by some of the old trenches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u60	Mr President! Indeed, high school law is here today in the Chamber, and it will be quite a plus for the government. This is a good show. But the early childhood education law is next week, and there is much to correct in that proposal. Reforming and updating upper secondary schools is certainly to be welcomed, and thank the government for working towards this. The starting point for the presentation is to increase the attractiveness of upper secondary school education, to promote the well-being of upper secondary school students and to facilitate the transition to higher education studies are such that not even a member of the opposition can think ill of them. Although there is much good in the presentation, there were still many points where there is room for improvement. Study guidance and its effectiveness are important for the future of young people. Insufficient guidance is a generally identifiable problem and it is good that it is addressed. Additional resources are needed to increase career planning and guidance to further studies. Good reforms can be blocked if there is insufficient financial resources to implement the legislative changes. Is there enough chips available for the education providers to enhance student guidance, that is an important question. Closer cooperation between upper secondary schools and higher education institutions is also a good thing, but a lot of work is needed to achieve it successfully. Cooperation between upper secondary schools and vocational schools should not be forgotten in any way either. We have a lot of high schools of different sizes all over the country. The size, number and location of upper secondary schools make practical implementation of university cooperation difficult. For example, if a large upper secondary school is located next to a large university of applied sciences, cooperation will hardly produce gray hair, but it is more challenging for a small, remote upper secondary school to work together. From the point of view of universities, the high number of upper secondary schools in relation to the number of higher education institutions can become a challenge. However, the national coverage of the upper secondary school network must definitely be taken care of. This must also be borne in mind in the cooperation between upper secondary schools and other students. For example, it would be good to step up cooperation with those involved in free civilised work. This would be particularly useful for smaller upper secondary schools. With regard to financing, the staggered additions of small upper secondary schools must remain. Community, small rural schools are often very important for young people, as they allow this education to go without moving away from home even if the postcode is not exactly 00100. Promoting the well-being of upper secondary school students is one of the key objectives of the reform. However, in the opinion of the Finns Party, the proposal needs to be stepped up with regard to the obligation to engage in school bullying. The obligation for school staff to intervene in school bullying needs to be strengthened. Bullying, harassment or violence shall be addressed immediately and the guardians or other legal representative of both parties shall be informed when the persons concerned are minors. The principal and the teachers must also make every effort to prevent bullying. Bullying is such a serious problem that we should really invest in eliminating it even at the upper secondary school level. In an expert consultation with upper secondary school The union put this very strongly on the table. In the past, the Finns of Finland have also made a legislative initiative on bullying in school. Mr President! Increasing the weight of the matriculation certificate in student selection is not an unambiguously good thing. This reform leaves a lot of potential young people out of the picture. It is right that high school success should be rewarded, but this is already being done by the very present system. Nor do we support the unlimited re-election of the matriculation examination. Of course we have to be able to do it again, but it's enough if we get the approved test twice and we're done three times. If the experiment is renewed indefinitely, what are the consequences? Is the Government’s goal of getting young people into further studies more quickly? I may doubt this. This model makes it possible to grow a degree so that you invest in one of the two substances at a time. This is possible, however, especially for those who can stay at home longer and concentrate on reading without having to go to work because of the family’s financial situation. In the case of boys, military service makes it difficult to renew. Is this reasonable? Already, there is a trend that universities and higher education institutions are filling up with girls and, at the same time, boys are becoming more marginalised. Mr President! Finally, on the suitability tests: We have areas where aptitude tests must continue to be carried out in the future. One such area is the care sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u61	Madam President! In fact, I agree with almost every previous speaker who has said that there is a good law at hand with a lot of praise. In fact, my own observations are mainly based on these development proposals, ideas and then on practical implementation, how to strengthen it or specifically take into account all young people individually but also perhaps identify different groups with different needs. I would also like to thank Mrs Elomaa once again. He was just talking impressively about the prevention of bullying. That is important; it can never be too much discussed in this Chamber. It is very important that it is brought up, and as much as possible through concreteness, and I know that Mrs Elomaa has done a great deal about this also at the level of listening to the people who are currently struggling with these situations all over Finland and sending us the message to the committee about how much pain is involved in these situations and how acute we are talking about and how important it is for us to work together on these issues. So thank you for that, and thank you all for bringing this up. Cooperation between higher education institutions and upper secondary schools is extremely important: I see for myself that the great benefit and opportunity is also that we can once again take into account the different kinds of young people, as well as those young people who have tremendously clear ideas about their own postgraduate paths and prospects, but also those young people who are extremely foreign or have no model for them, even in their own family circle or in that community. This is also the path and important support for those young people to feel themselves on that path, and hopefully it will also strengthen many of these young people. It is important to take regionalism into account, i.e. that everyone has equal opportunities. I myself put much hope into a working group which, apparently under the leadership of the ministry, also collects these different practices at national level, which could be such that they can be widely exploited. I hope that this will take account of the fact that the regions are really different, the resources to do, the tools to do are different, the spectrum is as wide as possible. Personally, I think that this collaboration will be a big challenge for the principals too, i.e. I would see that there is also the issue of continuing education and management in how to work together, new kinds of configurations, innovations are created. I hope the principals get enough support for that as well. And then I would have liked to re-emphasise the importance of this special support and student guidance, which are really great and important tools, and it is important that they be added. For example, from the point of view of student guidance, you think that once again it is very important to identify young people of different backgrounds and the needs of these young people under their guidance. There are still too many newspaper headlines at the moment, which talk about young people with an immigrant background and about a certain kind of story in which there is a terriblely strong offer of certain types of sectors to go to. I would see that this is also an excellent place to take up this issue once again. As we add to it, we bring individuality. Let's also narrow down those preconceptions and see every young man's path equally open in every direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u62	Mr President! The new high school is finally coming. This has been a long-awaited and desirable reform. Since high school must also adapt to a changing world, it was the right decision to start reforming high schools. The objectives of the upper secondary school reform are firstly to increase the attractiveness of upper secondary school as a form of further education, secondly to strengthen the quality of education and learning outcomes, and thirdly to facilitate the transition from secondary to higher education. The Government proposal has been well prepared and has been done in close cooperation with the field. For this, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, the Minister for Education deserves special thanks. Mr President! The new law on upper secondary school contains excellent elements for achieving the objectives set for reform. The new upper secondary school is open, international and general and meets the challenges of future skills needs. However, we insist on the strong role of upper secondary school education. The upper secondary school law strengthens students' right to personal support and guidance. This is one of the most important new rights for high school students brought with it by the High School Act. Personalisation of studies enables more individualised study paths and offers an opportunity to find your own strengths. Strengthening student guidance, not only through legislation but also through additional resources already decided by the government, is an important part of this reform. In particular, the ex post guidance obligation makes it easier for students who do not get to the place they wish to study or for some other reason need additional support after the end of their upper secondary school. I fully agree that further development of student guidance should be continued and that there is a need to ensure that students also have the right knowledge and skills and an open mind, that everyone is offered the opportunities that best suit him and not allow attitudes to be limited here. And I hope that this too, as Mr Toivola has pointed out, will also be addressed in the future. The organiser of education is obliged to cooperate with universities and working life in the new upper secondary school law. In the future, every high school student in the whole country, not just in higher education cities, is entitled to so-called peeking studies in higher education. In the best case scenario, this offers an opportunity already in high school to find out whether the dream industry is the one that you have thought about and the right one. In any case, peeks can improve the perception of studies by upper secondary school students in different fields and give them better opportunities to choose the future field of study. There are no changes to the upper secondary school syllabus. The transition from courses to the credits system enables the planning of cross-border study modules and facilitates the transition to higher education. In addition, the comparability of studies will improve. In the future, it is good to further develop the credit system so that credits can be read as well as possible in higher education. Mr President! The reform of upper secondary schools also includes a book on how to organise education in such a way that students can develop their international skills and skills in working life and entrepreneurship. While there are many degrees of freedom for the providers of education to implement this, it is very good that legislation is geared towards ensuring that the rights of every high school student include better international knowledge and skills as well as the ability to succeed in working life or to become an entrepreneur. Mr President! The upper secondary school law received a lot of positive feedback in the expert hearings of the committee. This also reflects the fact that even in the preparatory phase, experts have been able to express their own views, which have been taken into account in the reform process. The issue that aroused some opposition relates to the unlimited possibility of renewal of the exams included in the matriculation examination. This is linked to the reform of the university selection tests, which is increasing the importance of the matriculation examination when applying to higher education institutions. However, the reform is justified in order to give students better access to the field they wish to study directly. In its own report, however, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs proposes one statement in this connection: ‘The Commission requires the Government to monitor the effects of the non-renewal of the exams. “ This will make it possible to return to this issue if necessary. However, the committee's expert hearings also highlighted the fact that professional guidance and the increase in student guidance, as well as the fact that everyone who goes to write a matriculation examination knows that it is a considerable effort every time, will certainly help to reduce the need for renewal. On the other hand, the timetable for completing the matriculation examination, or actually the timetable for completing the studies, remains the same in this proposal, which means that upper secondary school education will continue to be, as a general rule, a three-year education. The introduction of obligations to prevent bullying and to tackle bullying is also a very welcome reform. Everyone must have the right to go to school and study in a safe environment. Mr President! One of the cornerstones of education policy is the objective that each primary-level graduate should complete at least a secondary degree. A determined increase in the level of competence improves Finland’s competitiveness, strengthens our position as a leading country in education and improves the ability of every person to build a good future for himself. This is also the aim of the second-degree reforms carried out during this period. However, the actual implementation of reforms will always be resolved in the field. The Finnish National Board of Education should therefore instruct and monitor the implementation of the upper secondary school reform and adequately support the providers of education in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u63	Madam President! It is a pleasure to take part in the debate on the Government's proposal, or indeed the committee's report on the Government's proposal, which includes positive reforms and, in particular, the much-needed streamlining of upper secondary school studies towards further studies and the strengthening of the obligation of co-operation between upper secondary school providers, particularly in the field of university co-operation. I agree with Mr Elomaa's idea that it is important to step up cooperation in other directions, such as those involved in free civilised work. At the time of the matriculation examination, I had a discussion with several recent students and high school students, and there, however, there was a very strong expectation that, after completing the matriculation examination, the matriculation examination should be tried to increase the grade without restriction. I personally welcome this as a reform, although I understand that it may cause certain practical problems. But there are many unnecessary dramas and pressures associated with the matriculation exams, and it is good that they do not remain too limited the times when they can be shown. That is why I support this proposal, and I believe that it is practically the most anticipated reform of this area from the point of view of recent high school students, today's high school students.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u64	Madam President! As colleagues have said here, this reform of the secondary school law is absolutely necessary and this reform is intended, in particular, to reduce the transition to these further studies. Of course, there are criticisms that it is now the case that we are going to be specialised earlier and that such general education in high school suffers in this regard. Well, it is not your intention to interfere with these subjects and the number and compulsoryity of their studies. But, for example, the possibility of going to a university to learn what may be ahead of future studies may be a stimulus for many, perhaps again, to eliminate areas of study where perhaps unrealistic dreams have been expressed. Madam President! Here is also a very important reform, which has been pointed out that the student has the right to receive this personal guidance and, in particular, at that point in time those students who are about to end their study rights or whose right to study has already ended and the number of upper secondary school studies has been completed but who may not have been able to complete further studies in the same year. This is such an important joint phase that if you can't reach the right sector at that point, you don't get the kind of guidance you need, so very easily there's going to be a cycle so that maybe we can wait for the next and the next spring and very quickly there can be different problems in that young person's life. However, it is important to provide sufficient resources. When it is promised that this is personal, it is also important to make sure that these resources are sufficient. This unlimited renewal of the matriculation examination: It is also a good thing that this statement has been put on it, because it may, however, be that it might, in this context, be able to change the application system for higher education institutions, of course, lead to such a cycle of renewal and renewal and renewal. Surely this should be seen in the way in which students actually exercise this right. It must also be borne in mind that, at the moment, quite a few young people are pawning that place of study because they know that the next time they accept that place of study, if they try to apply for it in a more attractive sector, they will be caught in this so-called 30% quota, i.e. falling out of this first-time quota. This clearly makes it more difficult to get into the sector that you might want the most. Madam President! In fact, I wanted to raise these key points in this speech. These resources must be taken into account by the municipalities. Neither should we, in the case of small upper secondary schools, be allowed to see an increase in regional inequality. After all, resource allocation is always about how well the legislative reforms will ultimately succeed in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u65	Mr President! In this debate, many colleagues must be grateful for their good contributions. In particular, I would like to raise Mr Elomaa and Mr Toivola's speeches, which raised these serious questions about bullying, about minorities. They have also spoken about these in a very thorough and extensive manner during our committee reading. Mr President! I asked for the floor at the end, in fact, because during this debate there was still a debate in this Chamber on this teaching of philosophy and religion. I would like to point out once again that there are two separate points on this issue which will also come up in those statements when they are put to the vote. The first is, therefore, an objection to a future proposal which, therefore, suggests that life-view information should be opened up to everyone as an open spectator, which is not what it is at the moment. So it is not open to all and choose. On the other hand, there is a separate question about this objective of this common spectator, on which representatives Eloranta and Andersson, for example, have spoken today in this Chamber. A common spectator has also been the aim of the Socialist Party. With regard to this joint protest by the three opposition parties, as a proposal for a statement in the High School Act, we have only recorded the first of these two objectives, that is to say, the free choice of this philosophy of life, but not a common spectator. In this case, the argument was, first and foremost, that the law does not in any way interfere with the content of subjects or the distribution of subjects. However, Mr President, in this context, I would like to raise a point in the debate on this common subject which has affected my personal position, which has changed somewhat over the years. It changed most strongly in the spring of last year when the teachers of Philosophy and philosophy took a stand on this issue, and since then I have seen that it is very important that we strengthen ET as their own subject, which can be chosen by all. This statement, which was issued at the time by the teachers of philosophy and philosophy, says, among other things: “We consider that there are serious problems with the commonview substance. If a common spectator were to be introduced, there is a risk that the teaching of philosophy will suffer the most. The example of the Helsinki European School, for example, points to this. When the education was combined, it became “religious information”. This has also happened in many other European countries, including Sweden. However, good spectator education is not primarily a demonstration of religions, but it leaves the student's own world of phenomena and living. The majority of issues related to ethics and values that are important to young people are not related to religion. Above all, religions are only a small part of the spectrum of views, and ethical education and discussion of values are not in principle to be anchored in religions. A good common subject could theoretically be created on the basis of the curricula of current philosophy, but Feto considers that this is not possible in the prevailing political climate. This is already demonstrated by the fact that not all students have been able to open up life views. “ In other words, it is precisely this opening-up that we will be presenting to all students, as it were, as a step forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u66	Mr President! I would also like to highlight the fact that this proposal and the reform count quite a lot on study guidance. The problem, however, is that there are no binding standards in the dimensioning of guidance, and they are not here either. And, of course, there is also the question of resources. Due to the lack of resources and resource cuts in education and training, the good objectives set and pursued in this high school reform are problematic. For this reason, I agree with the objection attached to this report, in this effort 3, which states that ‘the Member State requires that the quality and availability of study guidance in schools be ensured by setting the maximum number of students to be directed by means of a regulation.’ Personally, I do not believe that the goal of good student guidance will be achieved without imposing a binding standard, so that all upper secondary school students, regardless of the decisions of the municipality and regardless of the upper secondary school, are in an equal position. Finally, I agree with Mr Torst on this conclusion with regard to the common view, albeit on a slightly different basis. But also religious teachers, as well as professors of philosophy, have convincingly reasoned on why it is good to have these separate studies of spectator material. Nor am I in favour of this impetus, which has been linked to the report's protest 2 regarding the practical shift of focus towards life-conception in high school education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u67	Madam President! I wanted to take the floor here to say that there is a great deal of good in this government proposal and I understand that the committee has worked carefully and has heard a lot of experts, but I would like to stress here that, although we have a very good proposal and a good school, high school, we really need to ensure that the study of children of deprived families, such as single parents or families with multiple children, is not interrupted or made difficult by the fact that, in practice, we do not have enough money to study and all the necessary equipment. We have clear evidence that a young person leaving school after comprehensive school is easily driven into a spiral of exclusion and many difficulties from then on. If you think about it, many youths may find it difficult to say out loud the real reasons behind the problems. It is easier to leave school than to apply for support for, for example, the purchase of compulsory study material. Save The Children's Association has also drawn attention to this, and they say that it is precisely the lack of money that is a major obstacle to education. According to the association, as many as one in four drop-outs of secondary education have contributed to the fact that studies have not been completed, and it has been said that more than 100,000 of Finnish children under the age of 18 belong to a low-income family. In that sense, although this is not the essence of this government's proposal, I would like to raise this problem and the challenge and I would like to see more attention paid to it in the future. We have a big problem that we have children and young people who are excluded and, on the other hand, that there are obstacles to education. When we have a good school system, including the high school system, I would like us to pay more attention in the future to the fact that all those who really want to go to high school have a real chance of going to high school, and also in such a way that, in the background of exclusion, money shortages and exclusion from high school would then be the root cause there. In that sense, I would also like to see a comprehensive human touch on school, school resources, children and high school-age young people and their families, as well as on the subject of guidance and health care — I am talking about nurses, including in high school — and their resources should also be given sufficient attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u68	Mr President! It is absolutely necessary to correct the fact that municipal government shares or upper secondary schools have not been cut during this term of government, and now, as far as this guidance is concerned, the government has already decided in its spending limits that additional funds will be allocated to it, and they have also been judged to be sufficient to meet the needs of this new law, so I hope that the wrong impression that resources will be cut will not be distributed, but vice versa. Of course, it is important to ensure that the resources for student guidance are sufficient and, of course, that is something that must be followed up in the future. I would also like to say that I also agree with the view expressed here by Mrs Torsti on the teaching of religion and philosophy. Personally, I am also in favour of freedom of choice here, i.e. everyone has a choice as to whether they want to take part in the teaching of religion or of philosophy, regardless of which religion they belong to. However, in this context, as I said before, nothing relating to the subject or to the number of subjects was addressed, and therefore I cannot agree with this statement either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u69	Mr President! I asked to speak just to correct Mr Päivi Räsänen's view that religious teachers would not be in favour of a common view. I believe that there is a great deal of support for this, but I think that this debate will then take place more widely elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u70	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 13/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u71	Madam President! The proposal introduces a new private road law to replace the law on private roads that entered into force in 1963. So it might already be noted from that year’s figure that there is certainly a need for updating. The aim of the Act is to create the conditions for the development and maintenance of a private road network under current conditions, taking into account, inter alia, the needs of urbanisation and the change in the age structure of rural areas and the natural resource economy and business life. When it comes to private roads, it is worth remembering that it is estimated that about half a million people live along them and that there are almost 200,000 summer cottages on these roads. With regard to this law, it is also important to mention the fact that travelling under the law of everyman and non-regular travel on a private road is excluded from the scope of authorisation. The purpose of this legislation is to clarify and modernise existing legislation, both in terms of the way in which it is written and in terms of content. Authorisation procedures will be clarified and streamlined, the provisions on municipal road boards will be abolished and the tasks previously assigned to them will be transferred to other authorities. The present law is intended to clarify the responsibilities of the various parties with regard to the construction, maintenance and movement of private roads. The Act also aims to encourage road shareholders to organise themselves and to maintain administrative information on private roads. Increasing the responsibility of the public authorities is in itself to be welcomed, but monitoring and possible measures are required if the practice shows that public advice under the Administrative Law is inadequate in private road matters. Advice can also help to mitigate the risk of expenses in private disputes. I have been able to deal with this whole issue in both the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It has become very clear in the hearings and committee hearings that, unfortunately, in the case of private roads, disputes are very common. We may also have experiences of these in the hall. When civil disputes relating to private roads are transferred to real estate settlements and actions for damages to district courts, it is extremely important to ensure, even for cost reasons, that the maximum number of disputes can be resolved in conciliation procedures with the support of road associations. The State shall — note: — must play a major role in providing advice and support in the event of a change in this law and in the context of its entry into force. The Act will enter into force from the beginning of 2019. This has been dealt with unanimously in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and the substance is very much to be welcomed, especially since the government itself introduced a supplementary proposal which deleted all references to regional reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u72	Madam President! The importance of private roads is very large in Finland. In fact, there is no private road procedure or such significance in neighbouring countries either. Indeed, as the previous speaker said, there are almost half a million permanent residents living along the private roads, and there are also many free-time residences along the private roads. In addition to that, there is a bioeconomy with everything: we get wood and other raw materials from the forest, which travel very much along private roads. Similarly, tourism in Northern Finland and especially in Eastern Finland passes through private roads. It is therefore important for the economy and also for the mobility of people. There are some 360,000 kilometres of private roads in Finland. That is a great deal, and if you think about what Parliament is investing financially in them, the relationship is quite distorted. In the state budget, the total amount of private road subsidies is around EUR 15 million in the course of the current year, of which EUR 2 million goes directly to the loss, to the maintenance and repair of the ferry. This level of funding varies from year to year, depending on the political preference in question, which I find very difficult, if and when we want to keep the private roads in order, so that our growing bioeconomy will also be able to use these private roads in the future. Although our private road law does not in itself mention the level of funding, I would venture to say that future parliaments should ensure that money and substantial increases are made for private road funding, because such a level of aid of EUR 30 million has been felt necessary, for example, so that we can maintain a good private road network throughout Finland. Mr President! In dealing with the Private Road Act, we really worked hard to reform this old legislation to become modern, for example, how roads will meet in the future, how electronic, digital, tools can be used for administration, how aid systems will change in the future, so that when we get the provincial administration to Finland, the provinces will basically then use this distribution of private road grants in the future in the provinces. But, of course, these provincial references to this law have had to be removed, because we expect the county law to be dealt with by other committees here in the big hall. Then we can complete this procedure of the private road law with regard to the provinces. The main innovations in the law are the abolition of municipal road boards as part of the reduction objectives of municipalities in the Government Programme. According to the Government's proposal, the tasks of district courts will increase slightly as the reproach cases concerning the decisions of the district courts decided earlier in the road boards would be passed on to the district courts. The introduction of an internal judicial procedure, any advice given by the authorities and the increase in the cost burden would, according to the Government's proposal, consider the number of tasks to be reasonable. Instead of these road boards, then, in the future, the roads would manage the activities of the members of the road system, and the complaint procedures as a whole will change. To that extent, however, it was somewhat contradictory in the committee that justice should be involved in the way in which complaints are going in the future, when they go a little further than just the municipal road boards, where they have been very much resolved at the moment. As far as contract roads are concerned, the former practice continues. Their management will not be subject to this interpretation of private road law and can continue to be assisted, as well as private roads, in the future from the municipal purse, if the political will there exists in the municipalities. And in the future, the state aid eligibility of both contract roads and private roads was slightly clarified by this law, i.e. they must be organised and, in that sense, be entitled to receive state aid, that is to say, organised roads, if state aid for the rehabilitation of these roads is to be applied for in the future. We see it as important that when it comes to the old law that is being reformed and very many new practices will also come to those municipalities and roads in the future, information and advice must be available. In good cooperation with the Road Association, for example, we have made this discussion and also understood that the association could, for example, be a unit of information and advice, from which the citizens, the members of the public and representatives of the administration would be informed in the future, that what will change, what will change and what will then be done with the new law in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u73	Madam President! Indeed, there is an urgent need for the reform of the private road law. Admittedly, the law that is more than half a century old has become obsolete and has fallen far short of time, but now this mistake will be corrected — or rather a lack. The law that worked for decades is no longer in line with today’s time. The importance of private roads in Finland is extremely important. When there are over 300,000 kilometres of private roads in Finland and about half a million inhabitants and, I bet, at least the same number of summer residents who use these roads, plus then, according to everyman's right, they move — they are allowed to move around freely — this group of people moving along these roads, so you understand a little bit, gets a small, faint picture of the importance of this road network. And when it is added that all the timber that is cut out of the forests of Finland, or the energy tree or berries and mushrooms that are sold on the market, all this transport, always starts from private roads, with a few exceptions. It can be said that private roads are the driving force for this society. And think about this situation. Finland has been talking for a long time about whether we should improve the financing of private roads. In time, at the time of Esko Aho’s government, it was still on some level, but since then it has been driven down so that today the few million euros that comes out of it will practically go to a couple of destinations and road maintenance there will be no money at all. So the road partners pay virtually the whole of this money, which is what it costs to maintain private roads. In fact, if you look at it from the point of view of the economy and the money, then the state does not finance private roads, but it is exactly the opposite. In every bill that the management of private roads causes — whether it is graveling, dunging, plowing or anything else — VAT is added to the State’s treasury, and this VAT is many, many times higher than the government’s money to the private sector. When we talk about everyman’s right as our great right, it is worth stopping to think about those road shareholders who, after all, pay for it to the private sector. Our family is partners on two private roads. The number of road shareholders on the summer cottage road seems to be about 12 in total, paying a toll per year, and the use of these shareholders to this road is about 1 per cent. 99.99 per cent are tourists who spend their summer holidays in the lake area who do not pay a penny for road care, but according to the road law we have to keep it in order. Of course we will, but the question is whether this is fair or not. The absence of road boards is, in my view, a somewhat dubious issue, the enormous expertise that even small municipalities have had in these matters. I understand that the time for development and regional reform will come, and against that background, this is a perfectly acceptable and workable solution, but local knowledge when it is left out will, in my opinion, slightly weaken the situation. But I firmly believe that, with the new provincial administration, we will have an effective solution to this issue, a negotiating body or a dispute settlement body which will also act as an advisory body, so that such disputes can be resolved as close as possible to the road area so that we do not have to go to court. It should be borne in mind that a single court hearing, if you go to court, is easy to pay for two to three years of road maintenance fees. That in it again the shareholders will dig thin, not the people who move on the basis of everyman's right, but the members of the faculty. The very good change to this private road law is that if you need permits for the structures that society needs, such as cabling and such structures, such as the construction of optical fibre technology in the region, then the road can give it permission to pull those cables into the road area. According to the law, the land on a private road is land owned by the landowner, and until now the landowner’s permission has been required, but after that the public authorities are free to decide whether or not they want those structures there. This is a huge step forward, and I hope that this issue will now be adopted with great applause, because this is a real step forward and will improve the construction of social structures. And finally, Mr President, a few words about everyman's right, that everyman's right is a very good thing in Finland, and I warmly support that. But in society it has been understood that it is like a free service, which can be used on berry trips, mushroom trips and so on. I agree that it must continue to be free and accessible to all citizens — berry trips are the finest memories for me, even since I was a little boy — but here society must also take responsibility for giving these roads that little help. In time, as I said, at the time of Esko Aho’s government, there were still genuine road grants in this country, which were also enough for the roads. Today the disaster site, some bridge break or something like this, can get that money for a little, the end will be paid by the road partners, unless there is money in the region’s home municipality’s cash register. But knowing the finances of the municipalities, there is not much of that money there either. I hope that one day this House will understand the importance of the private road network for this country and give that road subsidy to this lower road network in order to keep those roads in order. For example, today’s wooden trucks are no longer on the old road, they need reinforcement of the hull and reinforcement of bridges to withstand tens of tons of increase in the total weight, while during the current private road law the weight of lorries has grown by tens of tons. It is easy to understand that a new law is needed immediately and that the money of society is also needed, that private roads remain in order and, above all, that society is functioning.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u74	Madam President! The Government's proposal for a private road law has, I am glad to say, improved further in Parliament's reading. In the presentation, when the regional reform comes into force, state aids will be decided by the provinces. The provinces share the money, taking into account the needs and requirements of their own region. As aid criteria, private roads will have the establishment of the road and the existence, timeliness and transparency of information on the private road. Which means that the data will be entered in the private road register. This is a very good requirement for the administration of private roads. In the future, municipalities can continue to assist private roads. Following the abolition of the road commissions, it would also be important for the Committee to have at least one official in the municipalities who is responsible for dealing with matters relating to private roads. A very good and important case. The role of contract roads has been highlighted in the civil debate on reform. There is no definition of the contract path at the moment. When speaking, they usually refer to roads whose use has been agreed upon between persons, or roads for which no road has been established but whose shareholders have agreed on road maintenance among themselves. Grants under the Private Road Act do not apply to contracts and therefore to grant criteria. This is well in line with current practice. Therefore, municipalities can continue to assist the contract roads if they have done so in the past. Mr President! The revision of the aid criteria will facilitate the establishment and abolition of the road. In the future, it can be done without a private road delivery through a mere agreement of the shareholders. In the future, the state, municipalities and provinces can be partners in the sciences. The State may also be obliged to become a shareholder. The benefit-to-pay principle allows the sharing of road maintenance costs to a wider group of private road users. It would no longer be possible for the State to use private roads in general without authorisation and compensation. The same caste would include, for example, many private roads and their shareholders, the Finnish Transport Agency. Now it too would be a shareholder or, as a clear user of the road, a liability. Mr President! Postal services would be exempted from tolls and separate licences because of their extensive universal service obligation, quite rightly. Other user charges could be imposed retrospectively for a maximum period of three years. Those who are obliged to make use of the fee shall report on their use of the road to the road or to the shareholders on the basis of which the amount of the fee shall be determined. The reform would therefore put an end to the municipal road boards. That is why it is important for the joint phase to focus on advice on private road matters, as has already been mentioned in several speeches. The advisory and mediation services corresponding to the Road Boards will be carried out in the provinces in the future. The committee has also expressed its concern at the follow-up to the changes to the law. It is therefore essential for the functioning of a large network of private roads that any irregularities in the law should be rectified promptly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u75	Madam President! It is very good that the private road law is being updated. This is such an old law that it is time to shape it into a new form. There are some things that weigh on the mind here, above all with regard to these road disputes. When I myself have once been involved in them to find out how to reconcile them with a good solution, I would have longed for some sort of involvement in the existence of someone similar to the road boards of the municipalities. That's what I was looking for. This transfer to the District Court. It may be very expensive to sue. In case of doubt, a low-income friend and partner may leave the matter uncontested and his legal security will not come true when there is no such mediation committee to compromise. I hope that, in the future, this change will be accompanied by an effort to provide information and advice. It is very much needed to ensure that this issue is well-managed. But it is necessary, in any case, to make a change at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u76	Mr President! As the previous speakers have said on many occasions, it is indeed high time for the reform of the private road law. The old law is from the '60s and does not meet modern needs. Even the language of the law is so old that not everyone understands it anymore. Private road law is a so-called citizens' law, which ordinary citizens are forced to read and apply in their everyday lives, not just lawyers. A large proportion of Finns are shareholders of one or more private roads. It is therefore of paramount importance that the law is clear and unambiguous, and this is emphasised by the fact that there are elderly people living along many private roads. Information and advice on new private roads is therefore of paramount importance. Clear, even plain language, guidelines on the interpretation of the law must be made public even before the law enters into force, and they must be supplemented as experience of the pain points of the law is gained from the field. As we well know, road disputes are part of the Finnish customs culture. There is a great deal of controversy about road rights, road policies and the cost of road maintenance. Not all roads are talking, even though we're neighborhoods. There is also one high risk of this new private road law. There is a lot of old case law about the old private road that has allowed us to determine how to deal with different situations without going to court: Who's going to pay for the snow that falls from the roof of the woodshed to the private road? When shall a tree fall down from the property of a road partner be cut down, and to whom shall the tree that is cut down and its branches belong? How will the use of the roads by professionals living along the private road be scored? Now that the law is reformed, many old disputes can end up in the district court, especially when the municipal road boards that previously resolved conflicts are also closed down. In order to facilitate these conflicts, the committee amended Article 42 of the Act. In such a way that, if there is disagreement on the charge, it must be dealt with at a road meeting and the fee will only then be enforceable. A large part of road disputes when it comes specifically to payments. In any event, the impact of this law on the implementation of the legal security of road shareholders must be closely monitored. Few people dare to take a dispute over a toll of a few hundred euros to the district court, where costs are easily raised to tens of thousands of euros. And, as a familiar lawyer said, ‘this is a very obvious case,you win the case with a 70% probability’:the wealthyparticipantscan intimidate the costs of the proceedings by threatening their lower shareholders’ will,even In the context of the regional reform at the latest, if this is to be the case, it is essential to create adequate private road advisory and mediation services at the regional level or to oblige the provinces to finance similar services such as those provided by road associations. There are good reasons for abolishing the road boards in themselves. In small municipalities, everyone knows everyone and relationships may have affected the functioning of road boards. In addition, the draftsmen of all municipal road boards have not had sufficient skills to resolve less frequent road disputes. For example, the way in which the committee's report has drawn up has been interpreted as meaning different things in different municipalities, and that is why the committee felt it was necessary to define the way in which it was concluded in its report, so that at least the interpretation of the new law would be unambiguous in this respect. Mr President! The committee unanimously made a number of changes to the government proposal, the need for which was evident during the hearings. Many of these changes are based on practical experience along private roads. For example: the committee extended the period of expiry of compensation for the use of private roads from one year to three years, i.e. the period of three years can be levied retroactively. The reason for this has been the experience that in some cases the user of the road has been difficult to trace and the duration or extent of the use has not always been known. Road shareholders cannot be required to be private detectives running around photographing the registration plates of road users and are able to find out, for example, the contact details identified by the road user as secret. The committee added the obligation for private road users to provide information on their use of the road if the use requires payment of the user fee. Originally, this was mainly based on the good will of the road user. Similarly, roads are granted the right to impose a fee on the basis of an estimate if no report is received. This makes the situation much clearer and reduces the demand for antihypertensive medicines on the roads. The committee also added to the obligation for road shareholders to provide the roads themselves with the necessary information for the list of shareholders and the list of contributions. After all, today the roads do not always know who all are road shareholders who are entitled to use the road, or how in the world you can get in touch with them when the information has been declared secret. Mr President! The new private road law will clarify the administration of private roads, but there will certainly also be conflicts. Therefore, the practical impact of the law, in particular on the legal protection of road shareholders, needs to be closely monitored and any problems addressed promptly. And there's one big question mark in the law that can cause some serious disputes: § 5 (a )the establishment of a road area, a defined area and a protected area, and the possibility of detachment from Construction in this area can also be prevented if road safety is necessary. The conditions for dismantling are strict, and the possibility of dismantling is not believed to lead to an arbitrariness of the road, but I would not be surprised if this article were to be one of the first to be debated in court on this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u77	Madam President! When I was 3 years old in 1963, a private road law was introduced in Finland, which is now being amended. When you were three years old, you didn't really know how good the law was, that it was still in force for so long. But on the other hand, in the golden 1960s — many good decisions and good decisions were made then — a good vintage was born in the decade, of course. The private road and its importance to Finnish society, for Finnish people, is invaluable — that is what you might say. Of course, the fact that half a million Finns live around them is important, but it is particularly important for Finnish society, industry and leisure. Many cottage dwellers drive along private roads, large forest companies move their timber along private roads, berryers exercise everyman's right and move on private roads, as do tourists. It is estimated that 360,000 miles [360,000 km] are the number of private roads in Finland and, unwittingly, we drive them — every citizen — during the year. The Private Road Act also includes its own section on ferry traffic. It's an important part for the islanders. Private road finance is the kind of thing that always talks about. Municipalities today, and fortunately in the future too, can finance private roads. Today, the State is also contributing to its financing. With the entry into force of the regional reform, the funding of private roads will be transferred to the provinces, and hopefully there will be understanding regional councillors who will also know what the importance of private roads is. The estimates have already been used here that different governments always make a significant contribution to financing. That's right. And at the moment we remember every representative in this Chamber, how we always have budget discussions before Christmas and how much private road funding will then get. Its importance in the future will perhaps be slightly reduced, as funding will, as a general rule, be transferred to the provinces. Fortunately, however, the municipalities also retain this funding and assistance facility. The municipal road commission will be dissolved by this law, and the corresponding road body and its administration will then be transferred to the provinces. You have to organize yourself to be eligible for aid. And this is one of the most important things in this law, which must be kept in mind and communicated to the roads and Finns living along the private roads, so that the organisation takes place in time and that the roads meet this eligibility for assistance. Advice and mediation services: A possible dispute has been raised here in many parts. Argument — as was well described in the previous speech — is unfortunately often in Finnish private roads, could you say, quite the usual thing? After preparation, this will be passed on to the organised roads. And then, if there is no agreement, the district courts will then resolve these disputes, and perhaps a few more events will come to the district courts. Another important aspect of this private road law is how payments to road shareholders are determined. These roads define fees and charges can therefore be collected. But it is great to note that these universal service obligations, such as postal services, are guaranteed and cannot be allocated to them, but it is without justification to other road users if they impose an exceptional burden on you, they can be charged through the negotiations. But in practice, these private roads are financed by the partners of the faculties, and that is how this is relevant to Finns. It is also important to remember that on this big issue the committee adopted a unanimous report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u78	Mr President! The private roads are very important, and that is what I came to see during this committee reading, because we have received very much of this. The field had been very widely heard about this, and the interest in the matter seemed to be very intense. After all, in cities and urban areas, the roads are mainly provided with tax money, but private roads are managed by each one of their owners. So there's a huge amount of money spent on them. Thanks to the private sector, we will allow the whole country to remain inhabited and alive and we will be able to make full use of Finland’s resources. So the private roads pay for almost everything themselves, their owners pay for almost everything themselves. That is the price for everyone to live where they really want to live. State aid has only been around 12 million a year ago, which is very little compared to the money it actually takes to maintain it. The importance of these roads for Finnish business activities is very great. Finland is a land of forests. For Finland, it is extremely important for the countryside, for natural products and also for everyman's rights and for people to be able to walk, and it is indeed thanks to private people. I was dealing with this in the Committee on Transport and Communications, but also in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which issued an opinion on this. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection made a strong point on fisheries. When private roads have begun to be built, it has not been taken into account that even fish should be able to travel and wander in watercourses. We have thousands, even tens of thousands, of obstacles to the movement of fish on private roads, i.e. ditches are locked in such a way that the fish are not allowed to wander. That is why it would be very important, as the opinion of the Committee on the Environment pointed out, that, in the future, when private roads are repaired or new bridges and new drums are built, they will be built in such a way that fish will also be able to pass through them. There was a great deal of debate on the issues of local government support, and now, in this committee's report, it was more clearly stated what this means. In other words, these private roads can indeed continue to be supported, and what is essential is that there are contractual and contractual ways that can also be supported. And what does the concept of contract roads mean? The way in which the contract is concluded is indeed one of those roads that is not organised, but it is an agreement between the shareholders on how to run the road. The municipality receives support for such things as the municipality itself sees fit. The question of the organisation of the sciences is very important, and the aim of this law is that as soon as possible, as soon as possible, as many of the roads that have not yet been organised would be organized. It is therefore likely that road boards, while still in force in municipalities, will be able to help to ensure that more and more roads take care of the matters of organisation, and hopefully to make it easier to deal with these matters in the future, because in the future it will probably be more expensive to organise the roads than it is at present. The municipal road boards do indeed cease to exist, and then the aid moves further away. There are advantages and disadvantages in ending road boards. The good news is that when we have a lot of municipalities with very few cases, then expertise may not always be right, and when this goes to the bigger community to deal with, I hope there will then be roads to help people who know things and know things a little better. The bad news is that this may lead to extra costs for the roads and that there is usually a bigger threshold for going out for help. The important thing is that we have to settle our differences. At the moment, the local road commission has been able to help the roads very much. In the future, there is a little fear of how these disputes will be settled. Hopefully, in the future the Elys and then the provinces will be able to deal with these issues and then help the roads as much as possible. Here, too, the Earth Survey will have its own tasks and roles, and then we will see how things start to work. Hopefully, they'll be taken care of. Resources are needed for all of these. Finally, on this responsibility for going on a private road and the damage that has been done there: This was not achieved in the report either, but the starting point should be that, according to the legal cases already in force, action is being taken because there was no major legislative change on this side. In other words, if damage is done to the car on the road, the starting point is that anyone who goes to the worse road already knows that it is a worse road and must be careful there. And drivers must always remember their own caution, but in certain cases responsibility could also be borne by the road. So, hopefully, there will be a little better guidance and advice on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u79	Madam President! Indeed, the abolition of municipal road boards has caused confusion in both our committee and, in general, in the field of roads, and perhaps concern about what can be helped, about what will be decided in the future, for example, on the distribution of subsidies. We noted in the report the concern and view that in the future the municipalities should also have an official responsible for such contracts or/and private roads, who knows and knows its local experience and knowledge of the needs of private roads or, therefore, maintenance and even now plowing or sanding and so on and who would be able to advise and support these future sciences in these matters. At the same time, it is also the committee's will that there may be an institution in the future provinces, in each of them, which will then, through the preparation of the official, deal with subsidies for private roads and also maintenance and so on. But, of course, with regard to these complaints and the resolution of these conflicts, I do not know whether this kind of provincial body would even be possible, but in the forthcoming regional reform it might be considered that at least the possibility is given that the provinces, if they so wish, could set up provincial road boards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u80	Madam President! I myself have worked on the Road Board several years earlier and in quite a few road care centres I am a partner, some even as chairman, so I am very well acquainted with this problem of private roads, for example in these contradictions and similar situations, which have then been dealt with by the Road Board in the past. In general, these disputes tend to focus on very small differences, such as a ditch dig or a place where the road drums are located or other such a reasonable thing. What is essential here with this reform is that there should be a lighter route to these small disputes than that district court. These disputes are very small, they are of no financial significance, and now, if they go into the district court system automatically without any sort of intermediate model, this may be very expensive for the shareholders of the road and also for the road. I would also see that the role of the road association could be quite great in this. There are quite a few operators specialising in the management of the road, and they have very good expertise and know-how already in these private road management issues. Such actors will play a very important role in the future as long as this law enters into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u81	Madam President! There's a few things I didn't say. First of all, the obligation of the road health department to take care of the private road is absolutely unbreakable. It also includes the responsibility of danger. I will give you an example of the situation on my own summer cottage, when one spring a strong flood took the drum pipe out of it and the road was practically cut off. If someone had driven to it at a speed, the damage would have been the responsibility of the Tiede. Fortunately, however, a careful person who lived there called the person who immediately provided the truck with the excavator, and the road was fixed. Putting it in order cost only a few thousand euros, and the shareholders paid for it. As I said earlier, the share of road shareholders in the use of the road is about a per mill. It can then be discussed whether it is right because it is a very important tree road, a summer cottage road and it is also the right kind of road for users of everyman's right, you can say, Ilomants may have the most used roads. But also so much that, now that road subsidies are being distributed in the future, the government must take this into account. If we are talking about the bioeconomy in this country with a great deal of talk and we are talking about it, I would like to see a little less speeches being made, but then a small amount of money being made available there, even if now it is EUR 30 million a year, from which we could channel 5 million into the corrections that are necessary, such as the bridge renovation that I have just described, or something like that. It would then be at the right level and the rest would be used for road maintenance, graveling, winter care and so on. As far as these incidents are concerned on private roads, people really need to understand that the road health department is responsible. It is the responsibility of the road operator, just as it is on public roads. On the roads of the state if an evil pit is born and someone drives into it, the State will have to pay for the damage it has caused. One more thing, about what Mr Plant said in his speech about the clean-up of the areas he saw or about the fact that road safety would not be jeopardised by the fact that a building, a non-permanent settlement, is too close to the road: there has long been a provision in the Land Use and Construction Act that any structure — I think it is, if I remember correctly, that 50 metres is currently in the law — does not get any closer to a building permit. Of course, someone can build a scarecrow on that side of the road, but now I can’t believe anyone does that with their bullies. I'm sure it's theoretically possible, but I think it's very hypothetical, completely theoretical, a problem. If it does happen somewhere, I think there's some sense in it without litigation, because you don't want to get sued by a bulldozer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u82	Madam President! There was indeed great concern during the committee's deliberations about the abolition of the municipal road boards and there was a wide and good debate about it. In the future, when the regional reform comes, the board system will be transferred to the provinces and the provinces will then set up their own municipalities on these private roads. It is important that a private road professional remains in the municipalities, or whatever title the municipalities wish to appoint. It is good that everyone in the municipality knows someone in their municipality of residence who can be contacted when you need some advice and there is a question about private road matters. But with a view to the future, it is particularly important that this law also allows the emergence of various professionals who are beginning to maintain the roads. Such road professionals, health care professionals, have probably already been born, and in the future, I think so, there will be a lot of them. There are individual people who deal with this type of science. Then their professional skills will develop and they will be well aware of the different legislative issues, and then even possible disputes will, in most cases, be able to be resolved by negotiation between the shareholders and not all matters will need to be taken to district courts, hopefully nothing will be necessary. This possibility of litigation, as has been said here, is an expensive way of resolving these road disputes, and I believe that it will make it a lot easier for potential professionals to come to this. It is true that today, in small municipalities, those who deal with the potential problems there are too familiar friends. Things get kind of complicated like this a lot. Information activities are important in this new law. Indeed, people who live on private roads are now being informed that these roads will then be organized and then, in time, will be eligible for aid and will be able to apply for these grants. Another important point here is this follow-up: now that the law that has been operating for 50 years is being amended, what will the effects of this new law be in the future? Of course, the so-called impact assessment will have to be carried out in the coming years and the necessary changes will then be made to the law if there are clear shortcomings. As such, private roads should be taken care of in Finland, as it is a Finnish blood vessel for Finnish traffic and private people and enthusiasts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u83	Madam President! I still thought I would take a position on these disputes when some of these road disputes have been seen in this time of life, that although they are mostly small things, they are fundamental matters. There it often depends on such situations that the main points between those concerned are so weak that the principle is fought, even if it is not a big, big issue, i.e. whether to blow up some stone on the side of the road or whether it is not taken out of the way, does it harm traffic? All of these amazing things have come up against you there. That is why I think it is very important that this kind of structure should be completed, when the regional reform is carried forward, that a negotiated official or a reconciliation builder should be brought in between those who, with the decision of an official, are able to take care of things, so that a solution can be found, when such a lesser party, which has less money, there is certainly no chance of going to a district court to argue over these little things, not enough money. That's what's needed to settle disputes like this. But in any case, this amendment of the law is now quite necessary. That's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u84	Mr President! I would also like to make a few comments on this in committee on this very broad and complex and complex issue at the end. In other words, many representatives have raised questions about the costs and effects of court proceedings now going to district courts. Will people’s legal protection now be realised in these disputes? If small matters are solved with large court fees, what will it lead to? The second thing that puzzled me about this law was that there was this article which allowed the redemption of buildings which were dangerous for road safety — not buildings that were used for residential purposes but buildings — out of the way. It raised doubts as to whether this could lead to arbitrary decisions of some kind, although it contained a legal term such as that it is “necessary ” for traffic safety. It appears to be a very strong expression and means that all other means must be used before the building is removed, and this would also eliminate this possibility of arbitrary interpretation. But since this is a major change, in my opinion, the effects of this law must be followed up and then made necessary changes to the law on the basis of the shortcomings observed in subsequent years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u85	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 6/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u86	Madam President! In addition to the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I also thought about the past year in the Nordic Council and its activities. Since the number of participants has traditionally not been great in these feedback discussions, now that I had the opportunity to participate in this debate, I thought I might say a few words about the past year. Nordic cooperation is, I believe, our whole centre of international cooperation and its most important component. It's the closest thing we've got. We have a long tradition of this and I think we are making too little use of it. Perhaps the level of ambition in Nordic cooperation could be raised. It may be thought that it works itself through strong institutions, but it also requires ambitious cooperation between parliamentarians and politicians to promote Nordic affairs. You may not only notice who is sending this report to committee, but also who are here to deal with it again. The Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council is small and active, but the group could definitely be wider. If we look at the key issues of Nordic cooperation, they relate above all to border barriers, for example. Finland has a good and long tradition, for example, with regard to the Border Barriers Commission. We in the Nordic Council have also tried to spread it to other countries. I hope it works. It will also be discussed in future sessions. And in the same way, Finland might have to learn about border barrier advice, how it has been managed between Norway and Sweden on the one hand and the border with Denmark on the other. In Finland, only one person manages both the border between Sweden and Norway, both of them. However, I believe that the Border Barriers Forum is working well, and that it will systematically break down these barriers, which, therefore, still exist several dozen and constantly seem to create new ones, even though they are being removed from it all the time. It would be very important for Parliament to look through the legislative work already, or, at the stage of the government's presentation, the ministries would be happy to see through the fact that this new draft law is not just creating any new barriers to the borders, because otherwise they will come to our table in the Nordic Council via bureaucratism. I don't think there's any point in that either. I think that much depends on the ministry and the minister in charge of it, how much political activity is being put into Nordic cooperation and, for example, the dismantling of border barriers. As a few administrative areas, I would like to highlight energy cooperation, environmental cooperation, transport cooperation, where the ministers of the centre have been very active, and it has produced very good results. The fact that the northern rail networks are now being brought into the European core corridor, the TEN-T network, is of great importance to us not only in terms of business policy but also in terms of infrastructure. Last year, Jorma Ollila's report on energy cooperation was published. It was unfortunate that the report also gave the impression that the Nordic countries were also competing with each other on some energy policy issues, although one should think about it. The Nordic countries are part of a global energy policy in which we could be very progressive. I would also like to finish with a few more initiatives which have been discussed in the Nordic Council. Electronic authentication has been one of the initiatives of the middle groups. It is good that it went ahead and through and that is what the state administration is now considering how to implement it. In all Nordic countries, there is already a very strong personal security number system, a social security number system — they should be in a similar form in different Nordic countries. This would make it easier for people to do their everyday chores, such as renting an apartment, applying for a school job or getting a job. In addition, one thing that will certainly arise in the autumn of the Oslo session relates to the language issue of the Nordic Council and to the bureaucracy that all languages will be translated into any language. Iceland and Finland have worked well together to be in the same position as other Scandinavian languages, even though our linguistic history is a little different. Hopefully this will be resolved constructively during the autumn session. I hope that the opportunities for growth in Nordic cooperation will be understood not only nationally in this House but also in other parliaments, because they have not yet been exploited but a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u87	Madam President! I believe that the work of the Nordic Council is valuable work. Many have spoken on various occasions, if I may say so, that it is now so important that a forum of this kind is organised and what its achievements will be at the meetings it organises every year. I believe that cooperation between the Nordic countries is extremely important, and I consider this procedure, which maintains this cooperation, to be extremely important. The Nordic countries are, in fact, an area of strong democracy on the global stage. They are Western, open countries all, and human rights are respected. They all have free elections, of course, the judicial system works and so on. We have a huge number of connecting factors, and cooperation has been close between these regions over the decades and centuries. So the basis for even better cooperation is very good. I believe that this uncertain period of time that we are currently living in is the reason why cooperation should continue to be stepped up. After all, some politicians have sometimes suggested that there should be a common Nordic-Norden, I do not say the federal state but this kind of closer cooperation body, which would have clear co-operation procedures and decision-making methods. Perhaps it is no longer a day when we are members of the European Union, but yet this cooperation in the Nordic countries must be improved. The situation in the Baltic Sea, which we have seen over the last few years after the events in Crimea, or the importance of the northern regions, for example, for the development of economic activities, or what happens in those northern regions in terms of military policy, is something that makes it important for us to be able, as the Nordic countries, to be able to stand on a common front — I realise that not all the Nordic countries are. Norway is a NATO country for which the northern region is of the utmost importance because of their oil and gas reserves alone. In this northern cooperation, for example, we should aim for ever closer cooperation in transport, because there would be very significant economic benefits for all the Member States. I therefore hope that this Nordic cooperation will be intensified and improved, even though it may have been a little shuddering at times, at least what I have heard from some of the representatives involved in this work, but nevertheless, as a wise representative said, it is better for the nations to talk to each other at boring meetings than for them to do something else that would cause harm to the international community. In other words, I am in favour of Nordic cooperation and I hope that it will not improve and succeed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u88	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. Amending budget initiatives will be sent to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u89	Mr President! In this amending budget, the government has earmarked funds for employment training and improving the matching of labour and labour needs. However, this whole entity remains quite modest. These funds are very modest for the administrative sectors of OKM and TEM. The means remain at the tinkering level. We need more than that. In view of the fact that there really are 1.5 million people in need of further or continuing education in Finland, and when the employment rate of workers dependent on mere primary school is good 40 per cent, the steps to be taken to extend compulsory education would already be necessary. The SDP has therefore submitted a number of amending budgets which focus on knowledge and education. More in-depth training and skills have been covered in Chapter 2 of the alternative budget. I will briefly go over only these supplementary budget initiatives relating to employment, education and longer-term growth at the title level. EUR 5 million for liberal education, EUR 10 million for vocational employment and integration training, EUR 20 million for the operating costs of vocational training, EUR 5 million for higher education institutions, EUR 1.7 million for organisations in the OKM sector, EUR 100 million for investments in the development of the network, EUR 100 million for research, development and innovation, i.e. EUR 60 million for this, EUR 10 million for employment services for TE Offices and municipalities, and EUR 110 million for the so-called long-term employment policy of the Ministry of Employment and Employment. We do not accept that these important measures should be left to private operators. Thus, these many excellent initiatives have a total of 320 million contributions to knowledge and employment. In conclusion, however, we must return to the theme we discussed here in the last referral debate last week 6. Adopted by the Commission At the time, we were concerned about illegal pilots, i.e. EUR 100 million for the amending budget, which will be distributed to the provinces to pilots of so-called freedom of choice. We referred here to the statements of the Constitutional Committee both last summer and this summer, which considered that the government was going too far in implementing these financing decisions without a legal basis when there was no law adopted. Nevertheless, the government divided the first 100 million on 15 May and is in this amending budget to make the next distribution of money, and yet, according to its announcement, to those regions that were deprived of the first distributions of money. Well, as expected, Minister Orpo here pleaded that no money has moved anywhere, and the same has been said by Prime Minister Sipilä. They have been told repeatedly that this is a side-effect on whether money is moving, because the decision to divide itself, the fact that ten provinces have been promised a sum of between 2 million and 50 million, is already a step towards achieving something that is not laid down by law. But they did not want to understand this and decided to interpret the position of the Constitutional Committee in a way that suits them, and this in itself is questionable. Well, the confusion only increased when the next day the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health admitted the problem and announced on 7 June that it would ‘stop the preparation of the pilots’. But it was not so clear, Mr President. This was then stated to the Orpo Democrat on the same day that ‘in order to understand—the wrong term—is interrupted,and the next question,the money will be withdrawn again,’no,but nothing will be paid and then the pilots will have to have the same content as the constitutional requirements’. Stopped, but not stopped. Nothing was done wrong, but they're still fixing it. And the question of how the actual distribution of money on 15 May can be changed to the Constitution in a way other than cancelling the decision as a whole. Or was it even a decision? This tragic comedy gets a whole new level, Mr Kulmuni, that although ministers and ministries have been talking about the decision all along, this word should not have been used in order not to violate the Constitutional Committee's demand. Now the Ministry says that this was not a decision but an advance policy. At the end of the day, Mr President, I would like to ask how this fascination will change the matter itself, for example, that EUR 2.5 million has been promised to the customer voucher pilot in Southern Ostrobothnia and EUR 5 million will be allocated to the oral care unit in Central Finland — nothing at all. It must now be strongly reiterated that the monetary reserve for illegal pilots must be removed from the amending budget without constraint. In addition, the illegal decision taken in May — or the policy or the suggestion or scheme — or whatever word you wish to use now — must be withdrawn without any straining. These 200 million can be earmarked for some good purpose, for employment and growth, for example the implementation and financing of the good budget initiatives of the SDP, which I have listed above.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u90	Mr President! It is easy to support these additional budget initiatives undertaken by the SDP, particularly in the areas of knowledge, employment and research. It is quite clear that our public investment in research and product development, for example, has fallen in a worrying way: it could be said that the fall in GDP of around 1% represents a level of around EUR 2 billion. One of the comparisons is one company's R & D investments. A Chinese company called Alibaba has promised to put EUR 15 billion in research and product development over the next three years, and in that sense it does happen elsewhere. As far as these pilots are concerned, Mr President, although it has been said that the preparation has been suspended and the money has not moved at all, this distribution of money, which, among other things, took place on 15 May, has been aimed at speeding up and putting into practice this supposedly collapsing war. For example, the distribution of money to New Zealand is a clear commodity when it is known how the County Council of Uusimaa, the provincial government and, in particular, the major municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area have reacted to this ‘cow trade’, a completely inadequate war which was created by a political decision. In other words, this is a serious place, what Mr Harakka said about the fact that, in practice, without the existing law, money, albeit conditionally, will be distributed in this additional budget over the previous 100 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u91	Mr President! That is right, as has been shown in previous speeches, money has been earmarked for the pilots of the war, but they have not been put into circulation. It's not a crime to prepare. If you are preparing to build a house and make money for it, it is not spending money yet, it is raising the loan only when the building begins. So this kind of preparation is typical of it, as a writer once wrote that luck generally favors well prepared. As far as this social reform is concerned, during the last parliamentary term, when you were in the government, you tried this experiment in society. What happened? The public finance situation weakened by EUR 38 billion. Central government debt, municipal debt, the sale of central government assets and the decrease in central government treasury totals EUR 38 billion. Is that the way we should have continued? I believe that this development would not have been halted by the Finnish Parliament, but probably by the International Monetary Fund or the European Central Bank, either. Either way, it would have stopped. But what happens now? Now economic growth for this year is either 2.5 or 2.6 percentage points of GDP, then employment has improved by nearly 100,000 workers, the employment rate of 72% is very likely to be reached, and as the Prime Minister did. In many speeches, Sipilä has said, no matter what parties the next government will have, its government will only have the task of achieving the employment rate of 75%. It has already been achieved in a few regions of Finland today. So, what we're talking about is if the opposition or someone else claims that it's not possible... It's already working. It's perfectly possible. For example, we must continue to debureaucratise the Prime Minister with determination. It has been done by more than 300 standards and has to be dismantled by 3,000 standards, ten times what has been done now. Currently, for example, in the processes of various environmental permits, there are billions of investments in the Regional State Administrative Agencies. Why? If I worked for the Regional State Administrative Agency myself, it would take two weeks to issue such permits. It is not now, for goodness' sake, to build a factory, when today's air-cleaning and sewage treatment and other such devices are capable of doing the job, needing years of lying down and keeping people on the unemployment card. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you should gradually begin to understand that the person who is supported by state money who lives at home with unemployment benefit cannot under any circumstances be the best solution. For him too, for his future, that job is the security and, above all, his protection of old age lies in the pension that he will raise in due course. I hope that one day the opposition will take this for granted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u92	Mr President! I did not quite understand how most of that speech related to the amending budget, except in that you said that the view, the heavy concern and, in fact, the criticism of these pilots by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was unnecessary and unnecessary. However, I would not dare to say now that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has twice expressed a position in which it takes a negative view of these pilots, that it is pointless. If I were myself a representative of the government party, I would perhaps take it with a little more humility, and the intention is probably that these lunches should be followed. Professor Rautiainen has already stated that the distribution of money already made on 15 May — that is, the decision that ten provinces should be given exactly this money and these items — was such that the Minister was in breach of the requirement of the Constitutional Committee, and he even flashed that this should go down to the matter of ministerial responsibility. What is so serious is not whether we agree with each other that this is a good, smart or less intelligent solution. I am not in a position to judge the position of the Constitutional Committee as such, but when it repeats it again this summer, when it seems that we are already going to the executive side where these bundles of banknotes are waved before the provinces that ‘there is no need for this kind of health care to go in the right direction,the money has been destroyed for these sites,but it is not necessary for a decision to be taken by the Parliament’. And what's the government doing? Reserve an additional EUR 100 million for this purpose, totally disregarding it. It was not a question of whether money moves to an account at what point, but of this solution itself — which, after this most absurd stage, is not a decision, but someone’s sort of line — and what does that change now? In any case, the decision and the promise of division have been made, and the only logical way to comply with the position of the Constitutional Committee is to withdraw this decision and remove this reserve from the amending budget. Well, this is what I have asked Minister Orpo now several times in this Chamber whether he is doing this, but the answer to it, let alone the promise of it — especially since the STM itself said that hapless, there must probably be a little pause in this preparation — has still not been received. Now, however, we are talking about quite heavy issues and, after all, quite large amounts of money: EUR 200 million. Quite a waste of money for the government, especially for the implementation of the law, which, as Mr Uotila said, will hardly even go through this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u93	Mr President! I am not quite sure whether I heard my name at some point in Mr Haraka's first speech. However, if this was the case, I was thinking of commenting on this criticism for myself. In my opinion, the Constitutional Committee has done an excellent job, it has done it for a very long time, and I think that its work must be taken seriously, and that is what the Centre is doing. We have been very concerned, for example, about the leaks that have come from there. They do not belong to the authority of this house; that is quite clear. But then this pilot criticism itself, which now goes hand in hand with this supplementary budget debate. As I recall, I have also heard such criticisms from the opposition that it would have been better to first try and step up and do these things on a smaller scale and not try to crash it all over the country, as has been done in the past with regard to some of the reforms. However, the line chosen is to try to get it through as quickly as possible throughout the country, because this is a reform of the kind that has already been carried out for quite a few parliamentary periods in this Chamber and in the ministries. Certainly no zero point has been set in motion. As far as this timely opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the suspension of pilots is concerned, it has now been done that they will no longer be put into action. On the other hand, however, the pilots that have been in operation in Northern Savo, for example, as I remember, also in the Hämeenlinna region, in relation to freedom of choice, for example, have become quite good and positive feedback not only from the users' point of view but also from the operators' point of view. Of course, I also understand the concern and regret that, since it seems that for the first time in a long time, Parliament and, above all, the government are about to achieve the objectives that they set at the beginning of the parliamentary term, for example in terms of economy and employment, then criticism must be sought in other areas. After all, the starting point was not terribly easy when the government started operating. At the end of the week, each of us emailed the Government Audit Office's view that the Government will achieve its own goals. The fact that Finland has now been caught up in the growth of the international global economy — it has been growing all the time — has helped the actions of this government, but that Finland has been caught up in it is not a small and trivial matter. That is a very important point. All these international publications and speeches by the institutions always emphasise the importance of implementing these major reforms and structural reforms. If this were easy, I'm sure it would have been solved. I hope that we will get this issue dealt with here as soon as possible and also on the way forward, because at the end of the day, although the opposition will certainly say that it wants to bring it down, I doubt that even the demars will want this package in their laps in the spring of 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u94	Mr President! It is quite clear that, although the economic situation has improved and we can be very happy about it and the employment situation is improving, the employment rate is rising, so we must remember that debt continues and we have a sustainability deficit problem and we will face very serious challenges in the next decade. For this reason, the sign of such reforms, such as those of war, should, of course, be cost-absorbing and not increasing. And when many experts in that Committee on Finance said that our own opinion was being abused that the price tag could cost between 0 and 3 billion extras, we are therefore concerned about both the whole of the war and its implementation. If the government had made the right progress in the original plan, there would not be so many problems. And if the government had proposed to step up in its own legislative proposals — a little like when the basic school law or the public health law came into force in Finland — so that the phasing was in the content of the law, some regional or more committed to the timetable, that would have been a very good thing, and it would have helped to manage this change and reform through and reduce the risks that are now very much involved. But when the government’s proposal did not include this phasing out or this kind of step-by-step and piloting, then the money cannot be granted either. Even the principle of budget completeness is based on the fact that when we talk about statutory expenditure, there must be a law behind it when money is put into the budget. It is in line with the principle of budget completeness.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-13-ps-65.u95	Mr President! So let me repeat that the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must be respected. When the professor of law believes that the strong advice given last summer that these pilots should not be carried out has been violated and the matter of ministerial responsibility has been flashed, you would think that it is understood that it has gone too far when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs twice points this out. And this is, of course, something quite different from this step-up, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is also calling for to implement this whole issue. But when this is done quietly, the way in which the government has sought to do so is not a credit to it. I am rather surprised that the government thinks that the Constitutional Committee and the Constitution are a bit like a sandwich table, that we take what we want and what we want from there, but if there is something that does not taste like it, then we ignore it. Well, among other things, a complaint has been lodged with the Attorney General concerning this first pilot division. I want to be clear about what this possible standstill, halting, specifying — or whatever words are being used here — means in practice. Does that mean that the money will remain in the item but nothing will be done about it, no plans will be made, no application forms will be made? Or does it mean that the EUR 100 million, as sensible as it would be, should be released for other uses when it is, of course, needed for employment and growth in this country? What is essential here is that this is one part of the great farce associated with the totally unacceptable preparation of this major reform. We, as Mr Uotila said, have done this differently than all the other major reforms in Finland. That is what high officials have said. Normally, as is reasonable, reform should be carried out in such a way that it is planned, then we will see what the consequences are and, if necessary, we will change the impact assessments at all when these two things were locked up at the beginning: the province model, which was an obsession with the centre, and the freedom of choice, which was an obsession with the assembly. We are in an astonishing situation where the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with its responsibilities, has not made any rational, even billion-level cost assessment of this. So what all the other 100 experts heard in the Committee on Finance say in almost one voice is that it is more certain that the government's social welfare model will cost 3 billion more than the corresponding savings. Whatever the Constitutional Committee has to say, the social project must be stopped in a state-responsibly irresponsible manner.
