ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion. Forty-five minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 3. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u2	Mr President! This is a government proposal for a law on the reserve police system, which would provide for reserve police work while abolishing the current regulation on the supplementary police system. The scope of the law would therefore include, in addition to exceptional and defensive circumstances, disturbances in normal circumstances. This is the main difference in definition compared to the current supplementary police system. It would therefore always be the Government that decides on the deployment of reservi police personnel, and the law would provide for specific tasks, powers, responsibilities and the right to use force separately in the event of disturbances in normal circumstances, as well as in the event of a state of emergency and defence. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u5	Apparently, there's a need for a debut. I'm opening a debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to press the V button and stand up. Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Eerola.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u6	Mr President! Minister, I very much welcome this proposal for a reserve police system. However, at the same time, I would like to ask a question. I have long been concerned that there are not enough real police officers in Finland — not in relation to the Nordic level or the European level — and the number and resources of the police in the whole of this 2010s have been reduced. Now, in the last few years, we have been able to soften the decline. A thousand cops would pay about 60 million a year. When you look at the budget book, it's a very small number. But now, of course, I know that the police are not in any warehouse, but full employment. So there's no one in the reserve. But I would also like to see more investment and resources in police training, so that we can at least reach that Nordic level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u7	Mr President! This proposal is undoubtedly a sensible and important proposal, but of course the basic principle must be to ensure that, under all circumstances, adequate so-called measures are taken. The number of real cops. After all, in its report on internal security, the Committee on Administrative Affairs started by saying that we should continue to pursue the 7850 police force. But now, considering this use of the reserve police and comparing it with the way in which the supplementary police system could be used, this proposal now assumes that the use of the reserve police will be decided by the Government. I would like to ask whether it is, however, too heavy a decision-making organic and precisely this usability perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u8	Madam President! The supplementary police have been a system that has existed for decades and has hardly been used. That is why, of course, it is a good question of why a new system of powers is being introduced under a different name, with some different powers, when we have a special need for these day-to-day, day-to-day and permanent police officers. At least two questions to the Minister. I understood that this would not necessarily require the training of the police, as I had previously imagined, for these retired policemen, but now it would not be necessary, and then the second question is that there would be a possibility of using weapons under certain conditions also for these police officers, who are not even police officers. These certainly sound like quite significant changes to current practice when we are quite strict and hopefully also remain rather tight on this use of weapons.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u9	Mr President! The 2015 asylum crisis is a good example of what the disruption of normal conditions has been like since the exceptional situation, which means that the border can be blurring and blurring. That is why I think it is very necessary for the Government to be the one who then decides on the introduction of a reserve police force. All in all, I would also like to thank the Minister. The silent introduction, which certainly tackled the uncertainties people have had about this reserve police activity. It's a necessary performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u10	Mr President! We already had a supplementary police system. I hope that the reserve police system will not be the same as the supplementary police system, which, after all, was never needed. Personally, I would criticise this 16-hour training, which, in my opinion, is not enough. In the case of a person who has received police training, for example, the use of handcuffs is only one day’s training at the Police College of Applied Sciences and the use of a telescopic bar for two days. It's already going to be a lot more than 16 hours. And then if a taser, let alone the use of a handgun, were to be added to this, then much more training would be needed. Minister, is there going to be further training on this, or do you really think we can do 16 hours?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u11	Mr President! Mr Eerola touched on the same issue, which has also caused me to wonder whether taxpayers' money, the resources of the state sector, is being misused. If the police are to be supported, then the police should be there first, so that a new organization can support it. For example, Utsjoki and Enontekiö do not have a local police officer at all, and it will take them a long enough time to get on patrol. So the question is, if there is no police, how can there be a reserve police? The second thing that concerns this government proposal is that a Government regulation would give a great deal of scope to change the nature, equipment, training, eligibility criteria, recruitment and conditions of engagement and other procedures of the reserve police. Could you shed some light on the basis of this strong regulation's mandate?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u12	Madam Speaker! This proposal is to be welcomed because, despite the history of more than 20 years, the supplementary police have not been used and, of course, it has also been frustrating for these people. Many speakers have raised the concern that, in the case of this reserve police system, there is a risk that the development of actual police activities will then be neglected, as if it were to be attributed to austerity measures in police activities or to the lack of police numbers as necessary, and I hope that the Minister will now tell us in particular how to ensure that this system is not used for this purpose. I personally welcome the fact that it is the Government that decides on the introduction of a reserve police force, so that the threshold is not as low as it is to introduce these reserve police officers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u13	Madam President! There has been a good debate here and, for my part, I also have a couple of concerns about this proposal. First of all, the law on military service in force specifically states that military services and reservists can only be used in normal duties, subject to certain security constraints. Now that much has also been said about the Tornio situation in 2015, each of us understands that if it had been escalated to a much larger extent, would we have been able to use our military personnel in our normal auxiliary duties for a long time. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister whether the possibility of increased cooperation with the Defence Forces has now been sufficiently thoroughly clarified. In view of the fact that we will continue to have reserve personnel, extremely hard-trained persons, committed to going into the preparedness force, could they not have been included in this request for assistance in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u14	Madam President! Safety is above all a fact, but also a feeling, and this feeling is shaken in many situations. This debate has brought up the events of 2015 when, for example, there were many refugees across the border from the eastern border, and this system is extremely good for this. In this good way, in my opinion, it is pointed out that under normal circumstances it is more of this sort of control of order, traffic control, guarding, perhaps transportation and this type of transport, and then, when the situation gets more serious, there will also be more opportunities for a little more drastic action. This also gives us a skilled and good reserve force, where there are many military police officers, meaningful activities and the possibility of further training. I would like to ask you, Minister: has this 35 years now been cut in stone, or is it possible, for example, that good, former military policemen could be involved in this at a younger age?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u15	Madam President! For my part, I would also like to draw attention to this general need for the number of police officers and their resources. These police resources were discussed just a week ago during the budget week, and there was also concern that, at the same time as the government is doing a reform of alcohol law or, for example, of taxi systems, there would be an increase in the need for the actual number of policemen, and that is why these amounts and resources are not at present sufficient. What I would like to say for myself is that good is what we talked about with the neighbourhood police, in the spirit that a familiar and safe suburb can bring in a certain kind of community and other good things. So I think it's welcome. But I would like the committee to look carefully at this whole package, not only through this proposal, but also through:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u16	Representative Savola, followed by the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u17	Madam President! Actually, there are a few questions about this: The first relates to the reserve register, that is, how will these persons who now form the reserve of the police and those who are stationed during the war be coordinated with each other, so that the tasks are clear, what task each should be in, and then the authorities do not have the same person assigned to two different tasks? The second question relates to the fact that, when these reserve officers are being trained, defence organisations could play a role in this. There was already reference to the use of a gun. There would be a great deal of expertise in the safe use of the firearm, in that training, and also, of course, in local knowledge and other security training that could be provided through it. Could the expertise of national defence organisations also be used in the training of the reserve police in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u18	Minister Mykkänen, reply for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u19	Mr President! Thank you for the good points about the gym at this point. Firstly, here representatives Eerola, Räsänen and Korhonen at least paid attention to this resource side of the police, and I would like to reiterate strongly that even if we had 8,000 police officers or 9,000 police officers on the payroll in Finland, this proposal would still be necessary for the same reasons as it is now. This does not compete with the need to increase the salaries of police officers. Not in any way. With regard to Korhonen's question about this decision-making by the Government, in the case of taking office, and with certain powers of order, even in the event of a disturbance in normal circumstances, it was considered that that level of government was necessary for a decision to be made, and that can be done quickly if necessary, if the situation is genuinely assessed as such. Mr Paatero drew attention to the use of weapons, and this has been a key issue in further preparation that we decided to limit the use of firearms in all cases to a state of emergency and a state of defence. In other words, in the event of a disruption of normal conditions, the Government cannot arm the reserve police. It is now ruled out in relation to the draft situation. Mr Kulmala referred to education and, of course, 16 hours is a short time. In-service training is planned for this reserve on a continuous basis. In this regard, Mr Savola also referred to the role of defence organisations, and I welcome the idea that this aspect will also be considered in the implementation of the preparations. It is intended that the regulation will provide for this training in more detail then in the next phase. Mr Heinonen referred to this 35-year limit and to Savola's reserve register accordingly, and this is the fact that the 35-year-olds are the material that would apply for this, of course, is a little thought that much of the defence forces' needs have also been calculated, and that in order to avoid duplication, this reserve would be sought at a time when there is not mainly that type of investment in the crisis period. Of course, it is possible to move around on a case-by-case basis, but this is precisely the basic structure of not being dependent, at least in exceptional circumstances, on people who overlap too much in this activity. Of course, it is always under police direction, as stated in this law, and there is quite a lot of regulation powers here — Mr Mustajärvi referred to them — precisely because, on the one hand, there has been a desire to provide clearly for tasks and, on the other hand, to consider that training is also provided for by a regulation, and, if necessary, when situations change, the regulation will be able to specify these more precise rules in order to respond to these changing situations. Fortunately, there will be more police officers coming to Utsjoki and Enontekio as a result of the budget debate, and there will also be police officers there to guide the reserve police if necessary. So we're always under police guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u20	Now we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u21	Madam President! As I said in that debate, security is certainly a fact above all, but it is also a very strong feeling and, in the case of quite a few Finns, this feeling has been shaken for various reasons in recent years, and in that sense, I believe that this proposal, which replaces the hitherto unused supplementary police officers or that system with the reserve police system, is more than welcome. And as Mr Mykkänen pointed out in his reply, at least for myself, when I got acquainted with the motion and its background material, there was no impression that this would in any way replace, for example, the need for real policemen or police women, as is necessary, but this is precisely a system of emergency situations which would not be compensated either for having 9,000 or 10,000 police officers or police women, but for a system which specifically requires an exceptionally large number and perhaps even larger numbers. It is good to make use of our skilled reserve, our former military officers. I also got the answer to what I was wondering about: this 35 - year minimum age. There was a good, well-founded response from the Minister that until then, men and women are mainly engaged in the Defence Forces reserve and then come here, but in exceptional circumstances, for example, there could be another way of dealing with women. The security situation has changed significantly, and it is precisely in this proposal that situations arise, such as the situation of large-scale immigration, where police resources need to be strengthened or, for example, when the threat assessment of terrorism has been temporarily raised to such a level that police resources are being tested. And they are under test, even if we have 1000 or 2000 police officers more than we have at the moment, which of course we must pursue, an increase in the number of policemen. Reserv police would not act independently but under the assistance and immediate direction of a professional police officer. It is certainly important that this is done, and that is what this whole system is aimed at, that is to say, bringing in more people to work alongside it. The law lays down the tasks of reserve police staff, including their powers, responsibilities, on the one hand, and the right to use force in the event of disturbances in normal circumstances and in the event of a state of emergency and defence on the other. This is a good review of the different situations, i.e. the disruption of normal conditions, where the reserve police would only take measures in support of police activities, such as maintaining public order and security at public meetings or public events and traffic control, including the guarding of isolated areas and possibly the transportation of arrests and other forms of security, but then, when the situation goes forward under exceptional circumstances and in a state of defence, these reserve police officers could carry out all the tasks of the police, and certainly that would be a situation in which there would be a very different and serious situation. The right to carry arms would therefore be limited to exceptional circumstances and defence, not to these disturbances in normal circumstances. At the end of the day, 1000 people have been asked to be involved — I would remember that at some point 2000 was spoken of. This is a good addition, a good crowd. Let us hope that they can be trained, as Mr Savola has pointed out, for example using MPK. I believe that it would actually benefit both halves, this reserve police system like the Defence Forces' reserve operations, when these trainings could be combined. And I believe that it could probably be very likely that the situation would be such that both or both of them might be involved when this system is needed. Mr President! It is good that this system is being put in place. I believe that this will also help to strengthen the sense of safety in the everyday life of the ordinary Finnish citizen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u22	Mr President! The Minister of the Interior stated in his own press release that the reserve police would assist the police in surprising, exceptional and ad hoc situations. This possible use of a light police officer in a changed security situation and in order to strengthen the police’s ability to act sounds at least strange when in Lapland in all municipalities, such as Utsjoki and Enontekio, there is no local police at all and the time of police patrols goes on driving there and here in a vast province. What we should be sure of is that each municipality has at least one patrol on site. And if it isn't, it's a security threat, if it isn't. The additional police experiment did not give a very good picture of the basis for action, and now we should be particularly careful and careful about this new proposal. The creation of a police reserve alone is not a reason for not being able to demonstrate a real need. Or is the logic that if there were no tasks for the supplementary police, they are now being created for the reserve police? In Finland, despite recent unfortunate events, the appreciation of the police profession is very high, and quite on the subject. It is based on the fact that security authorities have clear rights and responsibilities and clearly defined tasks, and this should continue to be the case. The cooperation between the police, Customs and Raja has worked well, and the borderline for the development of that cooperation has not yet been met. In addition, even now, in the event of a disturbance, people who carry out their military service, not to mention military personnel, can be used to support police activities. After all, Norwegian police officers have been spotted in the territory of the Finnish state with machine guns on display to stop and inspect honest Finnish citizens. The training requirement for the reserve police is modest, taking into account, for example, the requirements of police training today. Mr President! This government’s proposal is also marked by the use of loose concepts, which then justify all possible things, such as the disruption of normal conditions. For example, could a general strike and/or lockout, with sanctions, fill in the signs of a disturbance in normal conditions? This proposal justifies threats in exactly the same words as the civil and military intelligence bill. How would the reserve police be used in situations such as cyber threats and information impact? In the event of a disruption of normal conditions, even if the reserve police were stripped, they would have extensive rights to use force tools. Is the remote charger and the gas nebuliser against such new threats? There have been quite a number of unjustified threats instigated in recent times. The government's proposal is also justified by the aim of the reserve police to release professional police officers to the police's core tasks. Should it be concluded from this that even under normal circumstances, police are not enough to carry out their basic task? In my opinion, you can go even further and recognise that the resources and occupation of the police are not always enough to ensure the safety of citizens' daily lives, at least in the periphery of the country and in sparsely populated areas. Securing the police’s core activities and the availability of police services will always come before the resources of such forced reserve police models are made available. Even these chips could have been targeted at basic police activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u23	Mr President! I have read this bill in a very general way, I admit it, but when I read it, I think about it from a slightly broader perspective. In fact, we are experiencing an interesting change in society and in working life, which I do not think has been discussed openly enough. I personally appreciate the professionalism, because I believe that it is, in most cases, a guarantee of the quality of the work and that it will provide security for citizens if and when it is possible to be sure that there are skilled and skilled people in each job. That is why I am amazed at the general approach or thinking model in which professionals could replace almost anyone: taxis can now be driven by anyone. In the old age work, security phone calls can be handled by people with short security training. Valviraha has taken a negative view of this activity, but this is what is happening today — the guards are making phone calls for the elderly. In vocational training, teachers have also been laid off and replaced by mentors. And now, according to this bill, it is thought that the tasks of the police can be transferred to the short-term reserve police. Have we consciously decided in our society to do so? Security is an important issue and the police are an important player in this security work. The tasks of the police are carried out by properly trained and accountable police officers. Nor does the reservist system provide any relief for the police's pressure on resources, and, on the other hand, we must also take into account the fact that training and equipping these reserve police officers does require some of their own resources. Mr President! Now that the matter has been referred to committee for consideration, I hope that the committee will carefully consider three questions: firstly, is there a real need to create this system? Secondly, if so, is this training sufficient as to what has been thought? This course training seemed very short. And thirdly, is the delimitation of tasks sufficiently precise? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u24	Madam President! This proposal is certainly to be welcomed and, compared with the supplementary police system, I welcome the fact that we are also taking into account possible disturbances in normal conditions, which were lacking in the possibilities of using supplementary police officers. However, I still share the same concern that has arisen here in several speeches about how the creation of this system will affect the resources allocated to the actual police. I am not quite convinced of these comments by the Minister, because the fact is that we are in an inadequate number of police forces at the moment and, if we look at the disturbances in normal conditions, I hope that, in very minor circumstances, we will not need to resort to the reserve police, but we will have our own police forces capable of dealing with such situations. Then, on the other hand, if you remember the great increase in the number of asylum seekers in 2015, then it is a fact that the police were then, like the rest of our authorities, very tight. I believe that this is one example of a situation in which perhaps that border would have been exceeded by now. In any case, it is a good thing that the Government will then take its decision in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u25	Mr President! Mr Räsänen's idea that there is no need for police in Finland is certainly the right one, and certainly as Mr Räsänen's former Minister for the Interior has done the right thing, and we will certainly agree here, I believe that the whole Chamber. The change in the safety environment is a generally recognised fact. The international security situation has deteriorated and the internal and external security interfaces are united. This government proposal on the Reservoir Police and some related laws responds to the threats of public order and security posed by changes in the security environment from disturbances, from normal conditions to emergency situations. It has to be said from the outset that this reserve police is certainly not going to replace the police and, by the way, the police shortage. It is important that in crisis situations or under threat of disruption, the police can focus on their core tasks, while at the same time the Reservoir Police are at the same time supporting the management and maintenance of the situation. We have a lot of people in Finland who are interested in this reserve police activity, and people always ask if they might then be able to do things like this. There is a good basis for the compulsory military service and the training it provides. It is recalled, however, that the Defence Forces have their own internal need in relation to military police training, for example. But in different exceptional situations and disturbances, we certainly have extensive use for different professionals. In cyber-threat time, people think about IT experts. I would also like to remind you that today, when people’s life expectancy has taken great strides, people will live longer, and most importantly, they will remain more and more capable. This is reflected in the fact that we currently have healthy, fit retired policemen, border and customs officers with a head cut like a razor and a hugely important professional experience in the background, such as guards, vigilantes and so on. Mr President! There's been a concern about the funding of the reserve police. To sum up, what has been said here is that what is essential is that the funding that is needed for further training does not eat up the police's own operating expenses. Mr President! I am in favour of this government proposal. I hope that these concerns, which have come about here, will be taken into account. I would like to say to Mr Mustajärvi that I see from a very far-fetched standpoint that the reserve police would be used to control strikes or whatever came out of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u26	Madam President! The need for the reserve police is real at the moment, because this gym full of people here has not been able to get the resources of the right police, nor have any of the previous halls in previous years — even though the speeches are nice, the actions do not speak for themselves. In any case, the change in the security environment for Finland and its neighbouring regions makes the security situation difficult to predict. There are new threats in Finland. The police must, of course, be sufficiently prepared. There are new uncertainties about internal security, and the overall resilience of society may be put to a new test. International terrorism, cyber threats, large-scale illegal immigration are the biggest changes in the security environment. The Reserv police system would be part of the police's preparedness. It is good that the police also have a useful reserve for surprising social situations. Even if the reserve police system is needed above all in exceptional circumstances, it would also be possible to use it in the event of disturbances in normal conditions. But we have to be careful. It cannot be that the number of so-called right policemen will continue to be kept ridiculously low on a European and global scale on the pretext that there is a reserve police system. A precise but flexible definition of the disturbance situation and exceptional circumstances is needed. In my view, there is a good clarification in the proposal that the reserve police system could be introduced in the event of disturbances in normal conditions which temporarily bind the police's own resources. An example is the large-scale influx of asylum seekers and asylum shoppers mentioned earlier here in 2015-2016 and the related police tasks, which required the police to find and recruit additional resources and to make use of official assistance. The large-scale avalanche that took place at that time still employs the police. Reserve police staff could be used, for example, in large-scale and uncontrolled border situations where the police’s own human resources are insufficient. Perhaps the somewhat questionable point of the motion is that it mentions the following: ‘In the event of adeparture and defence situation, the reserve police could also use all the police’s powers and powers. “ It sounds kind of weird. The shortness of education, which was therefore a few hours — two or three working days in practice, has been mentioned here before. However, I think it should be made clear that the police are the most important competent authority responsible for maintaining internal security, and that is why there should be far more training and hiring of police officers. The most important basic task for society is to ensure the safety of its citizens without selling safety. However, it is a good thing that the proposal states that, in the event of a disturbance in normal conditions, reserve police would carry out tasks which do not require powers or the use of force which are deeply lacking in fundamental rights. In the event of a disruption of normal conditions, the reserve police would be primarily engaged in tasks that would enable them to release policemen to the core of the police. In general, the tasks of the reserve police would be to isolate incidents of danger and accidents, other security, order in large areas, traffic control related to evacuation and other support tasks. Reserv police officers could exercise their powers to a very limited extent in the performance of their duties and should act under the guidance and assistance of the police. Therefore, the reserve police would not be able to exercise police powers completely independently, which I think is a good clarification. Reserv police officers would receive basic training for the task, followed by regular annual training sessions and targeted training and exercises. The obligation to train would be guided by the background and other experience of the reserve police. For example, training for a person with military police training could take into account the training for the use of force acquired and, of course, those with police training would not have to complete the reserve police primary school. It is quite reasonable to think that the training provided would have an impact on the role that each individual reserve police could be assigned and the powers that could be conferred on them. The right to use force would require a person to have received similar training, just as the policemen did. Mr President! A secure, corrupt and open society is an important prerequisite for our well-being. That is why I support all the proposals that support the internal and external security of society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u27	Madam President! I am an alternate member of the Police Advisory Board and I get very detailed information about the police situation — thanks to the body that very well keeps us informed all the time. It is easy to say from this that we are all about, you could assume, we know that we are currently experiencing a significant deficit in the number of police officers. The Minister of the Interior is also aware of this. President! I am in favour of this proposal, there is a variety of different uses for this, and it is good that this proposal is here and that it will then become more specific in committee as regards its uses and other forms of training. That's my hope. The number of police officers should therefore be increased. This proposal does not remove this need. It has also been mentioned here in many speeches. Police work is demanding and diverse, and there is also training required for the task. This proposal essentially responds to a sudden need for distractions or to any other need for services where such a light police office would be possible. But I share this concern, which has already been mentioned in many speeches, that there is a risk that this system will, as it were, begin to compensate for the real need for staff in the police force at the moment. I was recently at the main police station and there was an interrogation department in Espoo, and there was an incomprehensible occupation: one person, one alternate person and one student. And when one went out to eat, then two were amazed and in most things they had to say that you had to wait for the person who was eating right now. When, after many hours, I finally got into my own business, I asked this police officer why this is happening in a city the size of Espoo. He looked at me and said, "You should ask him about it from the Arkadian hill." I told him that you now have the opportunity to unburden yourself, because I come from Arkadianmäki. He then dismantled this reality, that how much money has been cut from them over the last few years, which has meant a direct reduction in the number of staff. This concern should now be shared by us parliamentarians that, for a period of time, we should adopt the goal that the number of policemen should be able to carry out their own tasks well, and it is not sensible either that, in order to deal with a small matter in a police station, a citizen should wait four hours and not even be sure that he will be able to take care of his business on that day. That is what we should now tackle together — while I say, Mr President, that this proposal is not a bad proposal. But this concern that this is now distracting from the real need is justified and great. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u29	Madam President! Security here has been in great need of debate for the last few weeks and months, if you look at today's agenda. There is a need for a variety of instruments. In order to increase safety, we need the tools we talked about here last week, in other words, solutions to staff shortages, for example, on the part of the municipality, so that people are provided with services, or, on the other hand, that people do not fall into different traps, whether because of unemployment, illness or something else. When you feel safe on the economic and service side, in a way that you feel that you belong to this society, the feeling of security is the best. Then we always need this so-called hard side, that is, the police, the border guards and the armed forces and so on. In connection with this performance, I have many critical points. Let me start by saying here that this is not out of the police section, that, despite the fact that we have enough police officers, this is what is needed. I would like to hear, and I am asking this in committee, how the police will react to the fact that more than EUR 2 million is now being invested in this system and then at least 250,000 every year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u32	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u33	We will now resume the debate on the second item, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. The debate will therefore continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u34	Mr President! First of all, unfortunately the Minister is not here, we must thank the government for the fact that, with this proposal, the government admits that there is quite a police shortage in Finland at the moment. The fact that the word ‘resource’ is placed before this front does not mean that there is no need for a proper police force in this country. The term ‘resource’is understood to be relevantto the With 16 hours of training to become a police officer, there is a demeaning, despicable meaning of the police profession and education. However, the police profession is one where there must be a little psychological eye, social psychology qualities, there must be strength, and there must be reflection. Personally, I wonder how the psychosocial suitability of these reserve police officers, if they do now, will be measured and viewed. In any case, we are dealing with people there and, unfortunately, we will have to use force at times, and how far will it go then, that is something we will certainly have to think about. It must also be borne in mind that the reserve police are not free police either. It costs money to maintain this, and it certainly reminds me of whether that money could not be used to develop the neighborhood police activity. We have, for example, the North Pole Police Council, of which I am a member, taken a position precisely because of the need to get block cops across. We have had some homecoming times for young people in Ostrobothnia, but the neighborhood police is one that, as it were, calms the situation. This reserve police has now been defended, among other things, by these immigration issues and issues. Personally, I believe that if you are a block police officer, it would calm down various residential areas, and it would also help to integrate and adopt the rules, the common rules of the game that we have in Finland. Obviously, when people come from other cultures they certainly do not know everything or know our rules, but they could become more familiar with them, and at the same time we would prevent measures such as those in the neighbouring country of Sweden recently.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u35	Mr President! The background and the need for this performance is that if something unforeseen happens that the current police resources would not be able to respond to, or if they were needed elsewhere, it would be good if a pool of this kind were in use in Finland, which could then be alerted to help if there was a tight spot. Well, for over 20 years now, we have already had this supplementary police system in place in Finland, but unfortunately it has not been used in any situation, and in that sense it is probably justifiable that it seems a little amazing that we have a functioning system and create something new. But, Mr President, it is certainly not quite as simple as this, but it is justifiable to need such a system, but it is desirable that, now that the Committee on Administrative Affairs starts to look into this detail, every detail will be carefully examined and we will really see whether the model that has been presented responds to the need that we then have in terms of internal security. As far as internal security is concerned — while the police are the hard core — it is, of course, regrettable that the situation in Finland is that, when compared to the other Nordic countries, we have much fewer police officers, and that is why, in the context of the budgetary referral debate last week, there was a real concern from every parliamentary group that we would need a little more long-term planning and decision-making to be able to get close to the rest of the Nordic countries in terms of police numbers. Mr President! After all, this reserve police system is not helping the police's current resources, and of course money must be put into the maintenance of this system too, and it must also be borne in mind that, at least now, the resource that this new system needs is not out of the traditional police work. Mr President! In this debate, many have also raised concerns about the way in which, in this case, responsibilities and rights are defined, and whether each person has the training required for the tasks, and whether the number of hours of training — less than 20 hours, I think — is guaranteed that everyone will also be able to exercise its own authority. With regard to these details, it is good that the Administrative Committee is now going through them with a tight grip. All in all, Mr President, I can say that there are certainly well-founded needs for such a system, but we must ensure that it is not out of the traditional police work, at least, and then actually responds to the problem we have in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u36	Madam President! This government proposal on the need for reserve police and the development of the system is, of course, necessary and will be needed. In my opinion, the Finnish police system itself, this normal police officer, is a good system, but the total number of police officers is very low in many situations and in terms of statistics, for example compared to the Nordic countries. That is why it was interesting to listen today to Minister Mykkänen's assessment that even if the number of policemen in Finland was 9000, this reserve police system would still be necessary, because these tasks, which have been thought of for them, cannot, of course, have the same tasks as the police, because there are already so great educational differences. This need for reserve police is therefore aimed at different tasks. I also see that when there are strong reserve agencies and voluntary defence organizations and such in Finland, could there also be possible people who would have been interested in such a task? They would, at least, have a lot of things arranged in an educational way by now. This would be a pretty important sector to see if there are any suitable people there. Personally, I see that the number of Finnish policemen, which is currently around 7200 persons, should be raised to the average Nordic level over the coming years, and that could be what the Minister of the Interior, Mr Mykkänen, said here, even though, over time, about 9,000 police officers. In Finland, the overall number of police officers would probably be sufficient and the overall level of safety would significantly improve.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u37	Madam President! There's a government proposal for a law on reserve police. The Greens have already made a critical statement in this draft law. The government is therefore proposing reserve police officers who would act as a police reserve under exceptional circumstances and would be able to receive very short training. It is noteworthy that we have a shortage of police officers at the moment and that such reserve police should not be used to supplement the need for police authorities. However, if this system is reached, the operational resources of the professional police must be ensured and the training of the reserve police must focus on the appropriate use of force and on the knowledge of fundamental and human rights. The good thing about this is that when we gave critical feedback during the consultation and others gave critical feedback about, among other things, the load of the gun, this government proposal has abandoned it. Power tools for the reserve police would be available without a firearm. In addition, the use of powers was clarified and made more precise. Reservoir police may, however, be armed under exceptional circumstances and in a state of defence if required by the mission. It should be noted that the proposal grants the reserve police considerable powers in relation to the duration of the training proposed. The Constitution also restricts the exercise of public administrative functions to non-government authorities. Reasonable doubts arise as to whether such a intensive training period would be sufficient to guarantee sufficient knowledge and skills to support even responsible police officers properly. The police exercise significant public authority in their work, which, in the performance of their duties, includes the right to act in a way that restricts the fundamental rights of people. More attention should be paid to the fundamental and human rights implications of the proposal. It should also be ensured that citizens are aware of the role and powers of the reserve police. This is also important for legal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u38	Mr President! It is, of course, a good thing to talk about reserve officers and to reflect on the sustainability of the proposed system during the current period of intelligence laws. But I actually wanted to ask the Minister that if and when we consider these new ways of making new types of resources, then we should also be able to reflect on the fact of what is happening in that online world, online. I am referring, for example, to the fact that if you look at today's problem of substance abuse and drugs, I think that the greatest need for us at the moment is that our police, our Customs, our authorities go to the network where that criminal activity is being carried out, and there we have under-resourced. This is something that I have asked Mr Mykkänen in writing or asked him by letter whether he could consider testing a new pilot model of that kind, for example, in Lahti in Päijät-Häme, where the problem of drugs and substance abuse is clearly on the table and there is it. In a way, I would have liked to ask the Minister here today personally how he sees this whole. We fully understand that the resources are small, but when we talk about the money from the Ministry of the Interior and the resources of the police in general, there is also a preventive role to play in many of the measures that can be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u39	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. 30 minutes are set aside for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 4. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u40	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to amend and temporarily amend the Rescue Act and to amend certain other laws, mainly in relation to the regional reform and, at the same time, the transfer of tasks. In this context, I would like to highlight some of these changes. In connection with this, I believe it is important to find an effective and at least equivalent training model to the current system to ensure the availability and competence of rescuers in Uusimaa. In basic vocational training for rescuers, it is important to take into account the special circumstances of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and the large population. As a second point, I would like to point out that this proposal has raised the issue of a reduction in regulation in the case of shelters, so that the authority granting the building permit, for example, can allow common protection to be built later than five years after the final review, if there is a legitimate reason for it. Relaxation in itself is a good thing and, understandably, the environment in which we are preparing has also changed, which has then been recorded in relation to these population shelters. Of course, they are expensive today to build and increase construction costs. But mainly that the legitimate reason should be recorded and then the need for shelters in the region will be assessed in such a way that both the province and the rescue authorities will cooperate on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u41	Mr President! The proper content of this proposal is to be welcomed. This proposes changes to the requirements for the prevention of oil and vessel chemical damage, the training requirements of rescue and contract staff and, inter alia, the regulations on civil protection and civil protection. I do not think that there is anything striking about them, but instead this process shows how serious the problems of social and health and regional reform are. That is why this proposal is now being re-issued, because the regional reform has been postponed. The start of the provinces was postponed to the beginning of 2021, and in order for these proposals to come into force, it was as if this had to be re-issued. This also shows how much government officials have to work through this rather confusing process of social and regional reform. However, since this legislation on the protection of the population and on the building of shelters is also on the table, I would like to say that, as long as we have the Defence Forces, which are in place for our country to be subject to military action at times, so long will it be necessary to have shelters which can then, if necessary, protect the population. We know very well from our own history that they have indeed been necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u42	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 4/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u43	Madam Speaker! I present the committee's report on the amendment of Article 10 of the Constitution. The committee's report is unanimous and has been adopted in full committee composition.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u46	Mr President! There must always be a good basis for amending the Constitution, and a special basis must be given when it is to be done in an emergency order. When the Committee on Defence gave its opinion on this matter to the Constitutional Committee, I did not find grounds for urgent procedure or even for all the elements of the government's proposal. That is why I left a different opinion. In this situation, two questions have to be asked: Has the security situation in Finland changed suddenly? Or has the security situation developed over a longer period of time, which, in the near future, will lead to a substantial deterioration in the security situation? I do not think there is any compelling need to support the urgent procedure. The Committee on Defence did not assess this issue in a neutral way, but took the view of the government's proposal as a starting point. The assessment of changes in the security environment has not been unanimous in Parliament either. The wording of the statement of defence, the report on foreign and security policy and the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on it differ in terms of threat assessment and description of the operating environment. The Constitutional Committee has its own important role to play. If the committee has adopted the draft law with reservations, that does not mean that the content of the intelligence laws could not conflict with the Constitution. I believe that an absolute ban on mass control should have been added to the government proposal. There is no basis for urgency. If a matter had to be dealt with as a matter of urgency, it would have been a social security solution: if the Finnish social and health services collapsed, their availability would be called into question, it would certainly be a major security threat for Finnish citizens. These issues also relate to one another: the social dialogue also affected the timetable for dealing with this issue and was constantly eating up arguments as to why the amendment of the Constitution should be dealt with as a matter of urgency. Mr President! A few words on how the matter was dealt with in the Committee on Defence, on what points the Committee stressed when it specifically assessed, from a defence policy, security policy point of view, whether there was any greetings to be sent to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Firstly, the Committee on Defence notes that: The Defence Forces have carried out significant operational reforms that have improved their operational capability. Premises personnel have been formed, a significant number of military personnel have received emergency unit training and the availability of military personnel for flexible capacity-building and war tasks during the military service have been increased. The capacity has also been significantly improved through legislative measures. An amendment to the Military Code has entered into force which will allow for a flexible increase in military capability. In addition, military personnel in the reserve may be assigned immediately without a period of three months’ prior notice. In a relatively short period of time, the Defence Forces have been able to significantly improve their preparedness. Material preparedness of defence branches has been developed, and training and training activities have been increased. In 2018, EUR 50 million has been added to the Defence Forces’ operational expenditure to improve preparedness. What, then, are the conclusions of the opinion of the Committee on Defence? The conclusions begin with the phrase: ‘The Finnish security environment has deteriorated in a short period of time. “ Has all this effort been wasted, has it been wrongly weighted or has there been a message that is not necessarily true in all respects? At least, as a member of the committee, I could not agree with this view, especially since hybrid leaping and the much-used word ‘cyber war’ does not have the highest level of acidic content and good examples of such new forms of war as have been used. However, the conclusion is that ‘the committee’s view on the defence policy is based on criteria for the non-delayed treatment of legislation’. I found the committee's opinion very contradictory.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u47	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the regulation of the Constitution with regard to confidentiality and the protection of secrecy. The present proposal is directed at one article of the Constitution, so it is a very limited amendment. The social situation in Finland and the development of communications technologies in the rest of the world also place Finland's security systems and preparedness for various security threats in a different light in the present and future. Technological developments and threats through the Internet represent a new security risk, which must also be prepared by new means and means. The world security policy situation has also changed and there is no prospect of any improvement in the near future. It should also be noted that the proposed regulation does not allow for general, unallocated and comprehensive monitoring of telecommunications. The need for a change to this Constitution is justified and necessary for the security of Finland. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously approved the proposal on the basis of the criteria set out in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u48	Madam President! Thank you to Mrs Lapintie, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for her excellent presentation, and I also thank her for her overall good presidency in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have very important things there, and we are a lot of guards. Here today I thought that there would soon be no bill that would not be there and, of course, it could always be weighed once in a while as to whether all these things were constitutionally so important. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is about to become such a committee that when we want a little responsibility to be transferred, it will be sent there. But this is by no means such. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has here been the actual committee of reports because it is a question of amending the Constitution. Of course, it is good to bear in mind that, first of all, we must discuss the amendment of the text of the Constitution itself, its acceptability and interpretation and whether there is sufficient justification for it, and then, on the other hand, we must consider whether there are compelling reasons and an exceptional situation which must be provided for in an emergency procedure, i.e. first, to obtain a majority of five-sixths in Parliament by declaring it urgent and then to accept it by a two-thirds majority. There was also talk here about the fact that, if this Parliament accepts the amendment of the text of the Constitution itself, this will now change the powers of restriction of confidential communication in all future situations. It is also a debate that the amendment of the Constitution must not be a by-product, that when a change is made and it is discovered that for a moment, this may not go through the Constitution, it will be changed at the same time. This must not be the case, and the general rule must remain the normal procedure for regulating, which is compatible with the Constitution. But if there is a pressing need, of course, it must be possible to consider it. But there is no constitutional change, as in the air and space alone, but there must always be a concrete situation, and here the government has now justified it with this change in the security situation and the fact that Finland has not had sufficient means of controlling matters, military activities and information networks, and 2015 has been this report from the Ministry of Defence, which has then stated that a constitutional change should take place. That this work has been done for a few years, and in that sense this has also been considered in the longer run. Here, on page 8, paragraph 27, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also given guidance for the future on how to interpret the wording of this provision — very rigorously and concretely — and this is in a certain way a preliminary ruling, which I am sure will be read then, how this law should be interpreted. Of course, it is good for all legislators and others, such as researchers, to remember to read the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and not just the government's proposal. And it is also good to remember that anyone who invokes this restriction also has an obligation to provide the evidence itself that this is a serious threat. That the requirement of necessity is met not only by the fact that the acquisition of information is generally beneficial to national security, but must be demonstrated that this is the last resort. Furthermore, this urgency procedure is a very fundamental issue when, of course, the starting point would always be for two parliaments to consider the matter and then for civil debate on the subject. This passing of time has, of course, become a less and less significant criterion in the sense that there will soon be an election,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u51	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its chairman, Mrs Lapintie, for her good work and for her convincing and balanced report. The essence of this report is, in my view, in a sentence which states that there is an exceptional need for the use of the urgency procedure and that this is an urgent situation. This refers both to the expert opinions and then to the hearing of the other committees, and indeed, on the basis of the information I have received, I fully agree with this assessment. We are talking about new types of phenomena affecting the security environment, such as increasing hybrid influence, increasing the importance of the cyber environment and terrorism. In this regard, Mr Mustajärvi underestimated, among other things, this hybrid effect phenomenon, which I am surprised at, because we have witnessed in Europe in recent years a very significant stage of hybrid influence in Ukraine and Crimea, and unfortunately indications of such action have also been seen in Finland, and I am referring, for example, to the sudden increase in the number of asylum seekers crossing the eastern border between 2015 and 2016,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u54	I now give a reply to Minister Häkkänen. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u55	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to express my thanks to the chairman of the committee and the members of the committee for their good, careful work on an extremely important issue. The project has been prepared for a long time and has been carefully prepared, and the need for this project is well known and widely known in this Chamber. The security situation in Finland has been constantly changing for the past few years. It is now up to policy-makers to prepare for these changes by ensuring that the powers and resources of the safety authorities are in place. The purpose of the intelligence package is to update the powers of the safety authorities in order to respond to these new threats. New powers are needed to prepare for new threats. Intelligence legislation is needed as soon as possible so that our security authorities can secure us in the best possible way. In making threat assessments, the best information is available to the Finnish security authorities, not so much for party machinery. As a first element of this package of intelligence legislation, the proposal to amend the Constitution will be considered. This draft amendment to the Constitution is a carefully considered proposal which would enable the authorities to better prepare for acts threatening national security. According to the proposal, the law could in future provide for the necessary restrictions on the secret of the message in order to obtain information on military activities or other activities that seriously threaten national security. This constitutional amendment would provide a regulatory basis for the adoption of civil and military intelligence legislation in the future. Mr President! The Constitutional Committee has done a very good job. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on changing the secret of a confidential message is a careful work. The report is unanimous and the committee took its decision in full. In its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs accepted the main content of the government proposal. So the project is progressing. The Constitutional Committee, on the other hand, did not accept a small punitive amendment, as the President also said, according to which the term ‘crime investigation’ used in the Constitution would be replaced by ‘crime prevention’. With this proposal, the government sought to record the interpretation practice of the Constitutional Committee, which was separated from the wording of the provision, in the text of the Constitution, i.e. to update the current practice. However, this does not affect the adoption of intelligence laws. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also considered that there was no constitutional obstacle to the urgent procedure for dealing with the amendment of the Constitution. In the view of the Committee, it is possible to think in the way proposed by the government that there is an exceptional need for the use of the urgency procedure and that this is an urgent situation. This haste procedure requires heavy criteria and I still think they are being met.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u56	Now, if you're willing to go to the debat, let's open a debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in this debate to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u57	Madam Speaker! Perhaps briefly on the point raised by the Minister regarding the fight against crime: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that if the intention is not to change the interpretation, then changing the wording may lead to unforeseen situations, and it is therefore necessary to prepare the matter — and to prepare it together with the provision on the violation of domestic peace. On top of that, I might have said that, even if this amendment of the Constitution is not found urgent, the civil intelligence and military intelligence legislation can make progress, but the Constitutional Committee will then interpret the content of their laws in accordance with the current constitutional provision. In other words, if this is not urgent, it will by no means stop military intelligence and civilian intelligence legislation, but the way in which their content is assessed is different.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u58	Mr President! This constitutional amendment has been carefully and broadly prepared. In fact, the work has already started during the last parliamentary term. The basic work was carried out by a working group of the Ministry of Justice, which consulted experts on a broad basis and carried out studies. The parliamentary observatory was then closely involved in this work. It is worth noting what has also been said here: the committee was unanimous and full in terms of the report. When such a reform is being carried out, it is important that this is not a government—oppositional arrangement but that this is being done for the future — not this government or the next, but the next and the next. The essential thing about this kind of change is trust, the fact that we can trust that this reform is one that we can trust even when political conditions change, and this provides a good basis for these changes in substance laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u59	Madam President! All legislation must live in time. When we see that we face quite a few new types of security threats, it is clear that legislation must also be updated in such a way that our authorities have the necessary powers to tackle and combat new types of security threats. The Constitution must also live in time, but the Constitution must not be changed on the basis of hard facts. That is why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has worked hard and weighed up various points of view in relation to the proposed constitutional change and finally came to a unanimous conclusion and to a report which it has submitted in full. I hope that when this amendment to the Constitution is discussed here, the same spirit of large, broad national consensus will be maintained and that the difference between the government and the opposition will not be seen here, but will be done together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u60	Madam President! The Constitution has been in force since 2000, and it has to endure the tooth of the time. In principle, the amendment of the Constitution must be treated with restraint. I think this is the fourth time this Constitution has been changed. So, for almost 20 years, this has been in place, so that it has been held back. This amendment is addressed in one paragraph of Article 10 of the Constitution, which regulates the protection of the secret of a confidential message. This restriction clause shall adequately safeguard the secret of the confidential message and set sufficiently strict limits for its intervention. With regard to the semantics of criminal investigation and the fight against crime: it was a good thing that this now went into further discussion and then weighing on the parts that this will hold in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u61	Mr President! We discussed these paragraphs in the Constitutional Committee on the last pages of paragraphs 40 and 41, and these should be read as a whole. There was a separate debate on this. It was said here in a speech that it could actually be read that the Constitutional Committee would say that there are exceptional and necessary needs for the use of the urgency procedure and that this is an urgent situation — as if we were recommending it right here. It must be read in such a way that we say in the following paragraph that we do not propose that it should be declared urgent. We brought it up because there are arguments in favour of it, but we did not make a recommendation on it. Congressman Mustajärvi, I'd say it's worth reading the website of the National Defence Support Association. There is a very wide-ranging report on what is a hybrid effect. And at least when I took a national defense course there was a really good way to go through this. So it's worth it. It's all today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u62	Mr President! Indeed, the Constitution must not be changed rashly and lightly. It is intended that it will take time, and especially if we talk about fundamental and human rights — which is the protection of a confidential message — then we must ensure that people's fundamental rights are defended and that changes are made in very precise and only in necessary circumstances. I myself have been concerned that this gap in the Constitution will not be too big by accident, and now, following this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can say that this concern has gone away from me and I can support this amended proposal which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is now proposing for adoption in its report. In other words, the threshold is clearly raised that, in the event of a serious national security threat, when the necessary conditions are met, it is possible to intervene in the protection of a confidential message. This is to ensure that the Constitution is not changed rashly and, when it is said that there is no absolute obstacle to the urgency procedure, but ultimately within the framework of political judgement, it is also to limit the fact that there will be no practice in the future, that there will be no urgent procedure to change the Constitution. This is a well-balanced proposal, and now it is in the political debate on how the sitting will end next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u63	Värderade Talman! Då man ändrar grundlagen är det synnerligen viktigt att man är mycket noggrann med varför det görs och att motiveringarna är tillräckliga. Grundlagsutskottet har gjort ett gediget arbete i det arbet, och jag vill också passa på att tacka grundlagsutskottets ordförande Annika Lapintie för en bra process.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u64	Madam President! With reference to what Mr Niinistö has said here, it is clear that when the Constitution is amended, we must not be hasty but must work closely and carefully consult experts widely. Of course, if you think about this question yourself, this has been prepared as a civil servant since 2013, and as such I believe that well thought-out, good work has been done. Indeed, it was pointed out that the Constitutional Committee does not make a proposal here in accordance with Article 53(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament to declare this urgent — it leaves this discretion to this Chamber. But, on the other hand, it is not really considered that there is a barrier to the fact that if five sixths of this hall considers that it is urgent to deal with, then it can be done. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also considers this proposal of the Government to be justified and appropriate — necessary. I think it is a very important message that, following the debate to which Mr Henriksson has referred, it is precisely a unanimous opinion and this good agreement that has been reached.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u65	Mr President! In the context of this legislative amendment, there are therefore two fundamental issues on which Parliament can take a position: on the one hand, this substantive amendment to the Constitution, and on the other hand, this question of procedures and order of regulation, on the other. The view of our parliamentary group is that the threshold for the amendment of the Constitution should remain high, i.e. this normal procedure, in which Finnish citizens will also be able to express their views in the event of restrictions and changes to fundamental rights through elections, only in exceptional circumstances should there be exceptions. In other words, from the point of view of this arrangement, the question is whether there is an exceptional need in the hands now, and our view is that there is no need. These speeches describe the overall deterioration of the security situation and the environment and the overall impact of technological developments on Finland and many others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u67	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the fact that, although the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is quite rightly stated here — in fact, largely referring to previous opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — the main rule should be that there should always be elections in between, then Article 73 of the Constitution itself. no specificexceptional conditions are defined that this urgency procedure would besomewhere anexemption, but it is established that the proposal may, But I understand that very well, and I think it is quite wise that when the Constitution is amended, the normal starting point is that the elections are in between, that the law is declared to rest and then we look again. I think it's smart not to rush off and make these changes. But when the Constitution allows for this urgent declaration, it is also intended that a certain threshold is whether it can be found here in a sufficient majority of five-sixths, and it says a great deal already,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u68	Madam President! Like the Minister, I should like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It has done a very good and thorough job here. As far as this urgency is concerned, we have much thought about it in the parliamentary working group in which I was able to participate for much more than a year. There was the same great consensus in this House and also in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As far as this urgency is concerned, there is a great deal of justification. First of all, the fact that we are seriously lagging behind the comparative, all the comparative, and it is quite disgusting that Swedish intelligence has to tell us that the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been spying on us for years. It's kind of depressing. And what has happened here quite recently, in recent weeks, is also a clear indication that we need a more toolbox for the authorities to follow the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u69	Mr President! I myself was a member of this parliamentary monitoring group and I would like to say once again that the whole of the intelligence law itself is different from the assessment of the urgent procedure of the Constitution. The role of the Parliamentary Monitoring Group was not to reflect on the urgency procedure and that constitutional assessment, but to do this task and what was done was to consider the need for intelligence. After all, the situation is that a representative who is in favour of both this substantive amendment of the Constitution and an increase in the powers of inquiry may feel that the conditions and criteria of the urgent procedure are not being met in this situation. In other words, I would like to stress that we must also be able to look at these issues separately. The fact that Finland has a need to regulate legislation and a legal basis for intelligence powers is different from what we are now taking a position on as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u70	Madam President! The fact that we are now making such a change to the Constitution and we all consider it necessary indicates that, in this regard, our Constitution is a constitution of good times. But I would also like to thank the Constitutional Committee and its unanimity in this constitutional change. In my opinion, it shows that this constitutional change is seen as necessary across party boundaries in Finland and shows that opposition parties in this country are also acting responsibly. As far as this urgent declaration of urgency, on which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore stated that there are no legal obstacles to it, Mr Andersson was looking for evidence of a concrete threat that would justify this urgency. Personally, I would say that if such a tangible threat were in sight, it would have already been attacked.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u71	Mr President! I think it is a good thing that Parliament stops at this point, because it is an extremely large principle, a restriction on the secret of a confidential message. However, we have an ancient correspondence secret, and, in this way, when new technical tools are introduced for monitoring, of course, the temptation must also be to increase this monitoring, and this is where Parliament must be very specific. The Committee on Foreign Affairs drew attention to the term ‘mass control’and to the fact that Personally, I would also have drawn attention to the fact that when the authorities then receive this intelligence, we have a very free practice, how the authorities exchange it with other countries, and not all countries respect human rights in the same way as Finland. This must be remembered in the exchange of intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u72	President! Indeed, the Constitution is characterised by unchangeableness and permanence and, if the path of change is to be followed, it must indeed be done with thought. This does not mean that the Constitution defies time, but that the Constitution lives in time, reacts to time. A very strong foundation for future legislative proposals is the fact that the Constitutional Committee has been able to submit a full-scale report with unanimity. It's a good impalement. But as far as future legislative proposals are concerned, they are far from being a case of transparency. They must be addressed at least with the same attention and diligence that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done in the midst of this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u73	Madam President! Finland cannot go a step behind, but we must also be extremely up-to-date in the field of intelligence, because the security environment has changed, as has been the case here in the Chamber: there are new types of threats, hybrid influences, cybersecurity issues, in particular the fight against terrorism. We cannot, just as Mr Salolainen pointed out, be dependent on the goodwill of other countries with regard to our intelligence legislation and our intelligence, but we need our own legislation in it, and this constitutional amendment is one part of our ability to implement it in its entirety. I personally am in favour of this being done as a matter of urgency and during this Parliament, while there is no time to lose any further. If this were now to be passed on to the next Parliament, then years would go on again before this could come into effect, and the time simply is not enough, otherwise it will pass us by.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u74	Mr President! I believe that the Constitution should not only be a manifestation of time, but should protect the people of a nation state, and also protect them from government. Similarly, the Constitution should uphold the sovereignty of the State. However, it has already failed with membership of the EU. At the latest, in this debate and in the coming months, we will see that the Constitution is changing in Finland. It will change even with the opinion of one sitting parliament. This means, therefore, that in the future the Constitution can also be changed in such a way, as I have suggested, that Finland should give priority to its own citizens over foreign citizens, or, as is now happening here in the initiative, that: Finland would also resign from the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u75	Madam President! It is very good that this constitutional change is finally being brought about, because, as has been said in many speeches, we have been relying on foreign intelligence and information from it for a long time. Just as Mr Salolainen well described the situation, so we have information from Sweden, but now we are able to collect this information ourselves. Of course, when we start to change the Constitution, it always takes the view in committee that, according to the agreed method and procedure, fundamental rights can be slightly restricted in it and considered to be proportionate to the benefits achieved. That's the big deal. At the moment, in our information networks, intelligence from other countries is going to be rumbled freely, but our own authorities are not allowed to go there because, according to the Constitution, all public activities must be governed by law and the law must be strictly observed. Now this legislation is being created in this house and precisely by the express will of Parliament, because there are no recommendations on the urgency order. It's up to the Parliament itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u76	Madam President! I refer to what Mr Andersson said. It is easy for me to understand that someone is against this whole reform of the intelligence legislation, but a little more difficult, I admit, to understand that at the same time we would be in favour of reforming the intelligence legislation but would not now be in favour of this urgency procedure, because the fact is what Mr Salolainen pointed out that, according to experts, we are 15 years behind our main reference countries. However, this reform has been carefully carried out since 2013 as a civil servant and bearing in mind that Sweden, our neighbouring country, has been able to carry out this reform in the last decade. This must also be understood in the sense that the situation is currently that if a so-called foreign fighter leaves Finland in Iraq or Syria, we ourselves will not be able to produce intelligence on such a person, we will be entirely dependent on the goodwill of other countries. I believe that it would be very problematic if the adoption of this law were to take place by 2020 if an urgent procedure could not be followed. It still puts us in the difficult position we have been in for years. In my opinion, there should be an urgent procedure to deal with intelligence legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u77	Mr President! First of all, Mr Räsänen: you said that I am underestimating the forms of hybrid warfare. No, not at all. But this hybrid leap, I've been puzzled for a long time. That word, the concept, is used in every possible and impossible situation and it justifies everything. Let us now justify this necessity and haste, which has not yet been linked to a specific issue. I have also been in the monitoring group, I have been in the follow-up group to the report on foreign affairs and security and defence policy, in the Committee on Defence: I dare say that I am familiar with these issues and I am not at all convinced that these arguments are true of this urgency. All in all, the threat has now been created that the events in Ukraine and Crimea could as such be transferred to the Baltic Sea region, where there is no real basis, not even though our own Minister of Defence has already seen green men in Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u78	Mr President! Taking care of the security of citizens is one of the most fundamental things in the state, if not the most fundamental task. It is essential that our authorities have the necessary powers to identify and respond to threats to Finland and Finland and to combat them. I am in favour of amending the Constitution as a matter of urgency so that the actual intelligence laws can enter into force next year. If they move to the next Parliament, there will be a totally unnecessary and difficult delay to assess. The Constitution should not be changed lightly or rashly. It is therefore worth thanking for the careful work that the Constitutional Committee has done on this matter. It is good that the committee's report makes it possible to deal with intelligence laws and to proceed as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u79	Mr President! Indeed, as Mr Vikman said here, security is a matter for the state. When Mr Andersson said concrete examples, people in the Turku region – there has been a terrible act of terrorism, there are currently phenomena that worry people in Airisto – ask whether you are doing anything about why there is no legislation similar to that in Sweden. I also think that we should be able to respond to the citizens that we are doing our part in this security and in the instruments that are needed in modern times. Cyber phenomena are here today, it's true. And of course, I believe that the centre will unanimously support the urgency of this law, and hopefully we can make it move forward here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u80	Madam President! I am in favour of the amendment of the Constitution and in urgent order. I think that this text is precise and it will provide the very security which will make it possible to limit many of the concerns that have been expressed in this proposal. One thing I would also like to see a little broader debate, and that is, above all, this narrowing of privacy. This is the trend that has begun since the terrorist act of 11 September 2001. We have many, many proposals here, where the protection of the privacy of citizens is constantly being curtailed. What are the limits, how far this can go and what reason and excuse should be the subject of debate. This opinion of the Constitutional Committee provides a great deal of material and content for this debate. I would like us to talk more about this until when we are prepared to give up the protection of privacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u81	Madam President! Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a thorough and comprehensive and, above all, unanimous report. There are indeed two different sets of things here. One is the order in which the Constitution is amended, and the other is the actual law on intelligence, which will then continue to be dealt with, among other things, in the Committee on Administration and the Committee on Defence, hopefully as soon as possible. I do not think it is necessary to exaggerate the threats that the present world poses to Finland, but there is absolutely no need to underestimate them either. I am well aware of the fact that we are seriously lagging behind on a number of questions relating to intelligence. Let us hope that the substance committees will provide us with all the necessary information from now on. I am also pleased that this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that the serious threat to national security has been specified and that the human rights-based approach to this decision-making process has also been further assessed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u82	Madam President! The Constitution and the Constitution in general are, of course, characterised by a certain degree of permanence and relative stability. However, this is not absolute. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also states in its own report, the main rule for amending the Constitution must continue to be that it is carried out by two different parliaments. But if a change of law is to be made in an accelerated order, it is not quite an easy thing. It calls for a broad national consensus, a majority of five-sixths, which contributes to underlining the fact that it is a rather exceptional procedure and requires a broad national consensus. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs points out, there are indications that such exceptional criteria can be considered to be met in this case. I hope that such a national consensus on this Chamber can be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u83	And the debate continues. Minister... No, Mr. Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u84	Mr President! — It is a different Niinistö, who is a minister at the moment. I think this is an important debate, and the representatives of Andersson and Mustajärvi have rightly pointed out that urgency must be justified. But I also feel that it was important at this stage to limit and justify how the Constitution itself is changed so that the freedoms of individuals, human rights and the protection of confidential messages are safeguarded as widely as possible during this period. This amendment to the Constitution is very limited, precise and is further limited by the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. At the same time, X-rays were removed, in which there was perhaps a slight attempt to widen the possibilities of eavesdropping in criminal investigations. There was now a strict limit to the fact that at least no expanding interpretation of the Constitution would be allowed to pass by mistake. When this is a precise proposal — that is what the report very much emphasises, that this is an exception, that we are rushing — it in itself, in my opinion, reduces the risks involved in this rush in general terms, we are not setting a precedent. Now we need to assess the urgency of the intelligence laws and the benefits of the 1 to 2 years of time gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u85	Madam President! Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the good work that gives us good results in this extremely important debate. When we talk about fundamental rights, we talk about a very important issue. If we now decided to change the Constitution by means of an urgent procedure, it would be the first time in the current Constitution. We must therefore weigh with particular care whether there are grounds for urgency, whether the social situation is such that an exemption procedure is necessary. I personally believe that urgency should not be judged by the acceptability of the proposed change, only by means of it, but by whether the criteria for urgent procedure are met, i.e. whether there is an exceptional need for urgency. When changes are made to the fundamental rights of citizens, citizens themselves must have the opportunity to give their opinions, preferably through elections. Now we have a grateful situation. We will have elections next April, so the temporal benefit of urgency will be relatively short and will allow us to make these changes through the elections. Even if you support the content of these proposals
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u86	Madam President! An urgent procedure will not be available unless there is indeed a broad consensus in Parliament on the need and content of the constitutional amendment, which is a good thing. I personally believe that the urgent procedure on this issue is justified. Indeed, the need for changes to the intelligence laws was seen, as has already been mentioned here, during the last parliamentary term, and I myself, as Minister of the Interior, joined with the Minister of Defence in setting up this working group of officials, which was already doing a very thorough job. I am a little surprised when people here think that we do not have, as it were, concrete examples of the need for this change. The only terrorist attacks we have seen in Europe and neighbouring countries and even in Finland tell us that we do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u87	Mr President! I myself, as a member of this parliamentary monitoring group, have been following this for some time how this legislative package — both the Constitution and the substance laws — has been refined along the way. There have been positive changes. I was very much looking forward to the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in particular on the urgency of amending this law and its justification for forming its own position, but there is little to be said about it in this report, leaving it quite open. But that investigation against rejection was a good one. I do not think that this is semantic at all, whether it is a crime investigation or a crime prevention issue, but it is a very guiding factor when the Constitutional Committee is considering the constitutionality of a law that is laid down in a normal order, whether it is an investigation or a fight. I do not, as such, take this urgency without criticism, because the need for these things has been known since 2008, or even earlier, for both military and civilian intelligence, so where does this rush come from? Is this urgent procedure now intended to correct the mistakes made by previous governments and therefore to establish the Constitution in an urgent order?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u88	Mr President! That parliamentary group, which Mr Tölli was running, has done an excellent job for me. But when it came up here that it did not take a direct stand on this urgency, the one who has taken a stand on this is the Constitutional Committee — there are almost all the groups represented. It took a unanimous position. And it stated, although it has been very critical of this urgency procedure in the past, that, in view of the report presented by the government's proposal, the opinions received by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from other committees and the other expert reports received by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it now considers that this urgency procedure is justified. I think this is quite a valuable point of view, that it was possible to say this unanimously, and when the Constitution of this kind gives — although it has not been used before — you could almost ask that if it is not used now, what would be the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u89	There are eight requests for the floor. Let us take them because, due to the Minister's timetable, he has to go, and he will then give you answers to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u90	Madam President! Although I am in favour of urgency, it certainly does not mean that I am indifferent to the stage at which the Constitution should be amended, under no circumstances. It's very hard, and you have to take it seriously. I have become convinced that we have no reason to wait until 2020 for the changed world policy situation in which we are — every day, among other things, attacked by at least 200 hybrid or cyber attacks, Finland, various organisations, institutions. In my earlier role as ambassador, I became aware of our dependence on foreign intelligence services. It has become the most important information for us in many cases. That's why this is serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u91	Madam President! I believe that this reform of intelligence legislation can at the same time ensure both the fundamental rights of citizens and the security of citizens. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as Mrs Salmon pointed out here, there is indeed no obstacle to this being taken forward as a matter of urgency, and the proposal is necessary and appropriate. Amongst other things, Mr Andersson has asked about the concrete reasons why such a proposal should be taken forward as a matter of urgency. Of course we also have to look at the opinions of the other committees. The opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which I represent, states that the rapid development of communication technologies has made it more effective and easier to communicate with those who pose a threat to Finland — for example, terrorism, of course — and the preparation and implementation of actions take place in a shorter period of time, and the predictability of developments in the security situation has been significantly reduced. These are based on the views of experts consulted by the committee. I think this is a very specific situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u92	Mr President! I agree with all those who say that it is up to the government to safeguard the security of citizens, but I still think that Mr Tavio, the representative, Mr Laukkanen made the other side very clear here that we cannot take measures which, then, restrict too much citizens' rights or freedoms or the privacy of citizens, and that is the line we are looking for right now. When you look at all the information that we have on the Internet, at the combination of all these data and so on, I can well understand that the citizens feel threatened, as it were. This is a new threat that they are moving all kinds of information that someone can wrongfully combine and misuse, and even so that in some cases the authorities abuse — perhaps not always the Finnish authorities, but the authorities of some other countries — this combination of information. I do not think that this point should be too naive either. We must not be too naive against these cyber threats, but we must not be too naive against this, that this information can sometimes be misused.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u93	Mr President! I would stress once again that the question of whether there is a need for new intelligence powers at all is a separate question, and I understand that there is no disagreement within Parliament either. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself stresses that this amendment to the Constitution should not be assessed from the point of view of making available the intelligence legislation before Parliament. In other words, this substantive change in the Constitution must also be seen from the point of view that it can later also make possible other legislative projects based on this same restriction of fundamental rights which will now be used for intelligence. Similarly, the question of procedure, of urgency, is yet another or a third of this whole, a separate question, which is indeed of concern to us, that if the threshold is lowered, this will become a precedent which will also make it possible for the future to change the Constitution more easily or lightly than has been possible so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u94	Madam President! It is also worth noting the fact that today's military intelligence and, in general, the intelligence directed at another country is carried out almost without exception on information networks. Of course, according to James Bond's model, there must still be a scout on the streets of Helsinki, which is certain, but much of the information flow that passes through Finland through different information networks is monitored. And here we have almost completely ignored the fact that when these malware are circulating on these networks, espionage programs, so if the Finnish authorities are unable to access the information networks to follow those situations, then we will never know about the very dangerous spyware which, for example, have been installed in Finnish companies. And it is absolutely certain today that a great many companies have suffered losses of tens of millions when important economic values have been taken out of this country through networks and there has been economic damage. You might want to take this into consideration. Of course, it is important that people's safety is safeguarded, but if we give up something a little, we will achieve much more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u95	There are four more: representatives of Parviainen Olli-Son, Rydman, Tölli and Lapintie.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u96	Madam President! It has been rightly emphasised here that, if this urgent constitutional amendment is to be made, it must be an absolutely exceptional case. We do not want to create a new policy that is based on a constantly changing constitution based on circumstances. That is certainly something that the majority in this Chamber agree with. I also think it is important that the substance of intelligence laws has changed significantly along the way. For example, the supervision of supervisors has improved, the maximum delimitation of intelligence activities is very closely involved, and the Constitutional Committee has also drawn attention to the fact that, if intelligence activities are used, they are very carefully targeted. For example, this mass control debate should not be underestimated, but I dare say that the firewalls that are now being built into the intelligence laws are not opening the door to mass control. But, as I said, this is still a matter for the substance committees to ensure that the laws are as watertight as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u97	Madam President! That is where Mr Andersson was concerned as to whether there would now be some new precedent for a more rapid constitutional change in the future. Such concern is unfounded. Our Constitution is already aware of the possibility of an accelerated order of procedure, but it then requires a majority of five-sixths, which underlines the exceptional nature of its procedure. Furthermore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its previous practice that there is also a need for a sufficiently good justification for the use of such an accelerated procedure. We have now seen, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs writes, that there are no obstacles to the use of an accelerated procedure in connection with the use of the amendment to the Constitution. I think we should pay a great deal of attention to the fact that there is already a considerable amount of intelligence in Europe, and when a constitutional amendment is needed in Finland before that,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u98	And the Chairman of the Parliamentary Observatory, Mr Tölli.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u99	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the fact that this debate has shown that there seems to be a rather large consensus on the need and content of the constitutional amendment. What there are few different views on is an urgent adjustment of this. In this context, I will pay attention to one thing. It is a debate on this targeted and untargeted control. It is now the case that this report is very restrictive. This is a firm report in this respect. This is not possible in the order in which the ordinary law is enacted in the future, and this creates a fairly safe perspective. It should also be noted that the general conditions for limiting fundamental rights will remain fully in force in the future. In this sense, we can look safely to the future. As far as urgency is concerned, it will then be the subject of a more in-depth debate next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u100	And the chairman of the committee, Mr Lapintie.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u101	Madam Speaker! I would also like to raise a point in the committee's report on the restrictions on the application of the new restriction criterion. First of all, the committee stresses that information gathering on activities which threaten national security can only be attributed to the authorities responsible for national security on the basis of the provision. In addition, there is the need to obtain information on activities which, by their nature, may pose a serious threat to national security and the law must also provide exhaustively for the allocation of powers to activities that seriously threaten national security. Furthermore, regulation does not allow for general and untargeted monitoring of telecommunications, which has been the subject of this debate. Furthermore, the committee stresses that a restriction on the secret of a confidential message is only allowed if it is not possible to obtain information by less limited means and in such a way as to address the secret of a confidential message in the most targeted and limited way possible. In other words, the committee wishes to emphasise these restrictions of application, which will of course be taken into account when assessing these substantive laws on civilian intelligence and military intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u102	Well, at this point, the debate is over, and we still have the minister here. - Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u103	Mr President! The debate was quite unanimous, as the chairman of the parliamentary group, Mr Tölli, said, or in fact he said, about this need. Now that I listened more closely to the speeches made by all the parties here, the need for this whole project is in fact recognised, but then it comes down to this procedure of haste, which is, in a way, certainly the subject of further discussion. It is therefore good to hear that, in fact, there is apparently almost unanimous support for this project in this Chamber, and this was just a debate on the urgency procedure. That's different, but it was a pleasant surprise for me to hear this, too. Changing the Constitution is always a serious act. Now that we look to the world, we see that the rule of law and constitutional issues are among the most important at the moment. That is why it must be based in Finland on this kind of careful, versatile analysis if we are to go and make changes. It must be assessed whether the restriction of that fundamental right is too serious to bring another interest forward. Security interests cannot be promoted indefinitely at the expense of other rights; this is the basic message. We cannot say that when we say ‘national security’, we can only do so. Absolutely not like this. That is what is said in Turkey or Russia or elsewhere, but not in Finland. We have a whole which has been carefully weighed, in which only precise, precise, certain limits can be made on the fundamental rights of citizens in order to promote security throughout Finland, but we cannot do so to intervene in the very core areas of fundamental rights or to remove them without limit, even if mass control is allowed just like that. In Finland, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has established practices on how to restrict fundamental rights in order to promote important interests. These conditions for the restriction of fundamental rights had been carefully drafted for years in the Ministry of Justice's proposal on which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, acting unanimously in practice, now believes that it is a good idea to proceed on that basis. In other words, careful preparation, Mr PeV's report — this is a very good basis for making progress on this project.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u104	And then let's go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u105	Mr President! This bill is one of the most important in principle, which Parliament will deal with during this parliamentary term, because it is a question of restricting fundamental rights, and it is also a question of protecting privacy directly. In its own report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed the importance of continuance of the Constitution and the careful assessment of potential constitutional needs and the need to make the necessary changes on the basis of thorough preparation and a broad-based debate and consensus. Parliament will now take a position on two separate issues with this bill now under discussion. The first is the amendment to the Constitution, which will allow the secret of a confidential message to be restricted on new grounds. According to the proposal, a new paragraph is added to Article 10 of the Constitution, according to which the law may provide for the necessary limitations to the secret of the message in order to obtain information on military activities or other activities that seriously threaten national security. It is important to stress that, although this proposal is now politically strongly linked to enabling telecommunications intelligence, this amendment to the Constitution is of a general nature and will, in future, also enable other legislative projects based on this same restriction. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs points out in its report, the substantive change in the Constitution should not be assessed from the point of view of making available the intelligence legislation before Parliament. This amendment to the Constitution is also of fundamental importance because the restriction of a confidential message by this amendment of the law is decoupled from criminal activity. In the future, privacy can therefore also be restricted in order to obtain information in situations where, at the time of the data collection, and not necessarily otherwise, concrete and identified criminal suspicions could not be targeted. While the Left Alliance is of the opinion that such a restriction on the Constitution can be added, we would nevertheless like to stress that, in the case of non-military activities, this restriction is only linked to serious threats. It is essential that this threshold is also applied in practice so that limiting the secret of a confidential message to ordinary people is only done in exceptional circumstances where it is necessary to obtain information on serious threats to national security. Similarly, we stress the clear line contained in both the explanatory statement of the law and in this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this restriction does not allow general, unallocated and comprehensive monitoring of telecommunications. Mr President! Another major question in principle, on which Parliament will take a stand, is the order in which the Constitution is to be amended. The government has taken a position in favour of urgency in the draft law, but the Constitutional Committee unanimously refrains from declaring the proposal urgent. That is why it is now in the hands of Parliament. The Left Alliance is of the opinion that the conditions for an urgent procedure are not met in this situation. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, changes to the Constitution should be treated with restraint and should not be taken on the basis of day-to-day political prospects. According to the committee, it is important that amendments to the Constitution should, as a general rule, be dealt with in a normal constitutional order. The aim is to keep the threshold high, both in order to protect the status of the Constitution and in order to ensure democracy. By leaving the motion to rest in the next Parliament, citizens will be given the opportunity to express their views through the elections on proposals which restrict their fundamental rights or otherwise significantly alter them. In the event of deviations from this central method from the democratic point of view, the criteria should be exceptionally clear and burdensome. Therefore, an urgent procedure should not be used unless there is an exceptional need for it. The question, therefore, is whether we now have such a situation in our hands. Both the Government's proposals and the opinions and reports of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence have given a good description of the changes in the security environment, the impact of technological developments on security policy and the need for intelligence powers. All of this is unquestionably true. However, it does not change the fact that this is a general description of changes in the security situation which are a reality in all countries around the world. The general need for more intelligence powers has therefore been invoked, but no exceptional and necessary need at this time and for Finland has been identified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u108	Mr President! To begin with, it is a pleasure to note that there is a great deal of consensus in this Chamber on the content and necessity of the constitutional amendment. It also tells us that there has been a great deal of effort and thought about this, and then it will provide a very solid basis for the reform of the Constitution. As has been said many times here, the Constitution should not be changed on the spur of the moment or for political cyclical reasons, but is always a carefully prepared and carefully thought-out issue. The nature of the Constitution is, in a certain way, permanent, but it never means that there will be no constitutional change. This constitutional amendment has already been prepared during the previous parliamentary term and, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, a working group of the Ministry of Justice was set up to prepare this matter and, as early as 2015, a parliamentary monitoring group was set up, which was closely involved in this work. In this preparatory work, a wide range of experts were consulted and studies were carried out and different perspectives were considered. It should also be noted that this reform is very limited. This applies only to one paragraph. And the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' report also limited this. So you can't say that there's some rash motion of amendment, but it's carefully considered. It is now also important to bear in mind what is shown here that this is not a government-oppositional arrangement, as is the case with the whole package of intelligence laws. This is done not only for this government, nor for the next government, nor for the next government, but in the longer term, so that, whatever the political cycle, this reform can be relied on. It creates stability, and this is the type of reform that needs to be made. Some aspects have been discussed here since then, and one is this targeted monitoring. The chairman of the committee on the report quite rightly quoted what the restrictions on the application of this provision mean, and I repeat a number of things which point to the fact that mass control or untargeted control is not possible but is always based on a clear decision-making process: First of all, the task of gathering information on activities threatening national security could be assigned only to the national security authorities, which are currently the protection police, the Chief Staff and the Defence Forces Intelligence Agency. Secondly, it should be noted that this condition of limitation would only apply to the provision of information on activities which, by their nature, could constitute a serious threat to national security — a serious threat to national security. Thirdly, the law must provide – i.e. these substance laws – for a comprehensive allocation of powers to activities which seriously threaten national security. Clearing out. Fourthly, the proposed regulation does not allow general unallocated and comprehensive monitoring of telecommunications in intelligence activities. And then there is this criterion of necessity. In other words, this is a pretty strong lock, and it is worth remembering that the general conditions for limiting fundamental rights remain fully in place. In other words, when we have discussed whether this will now allow us to regulate anything in the future: does not allow. Therefore, you can look safely to the future in a certain way. Well, then, in this order of rules, let's make it brief: If this is provided for as a matter of urgency, it is not possible to take a preliminary decision that it should always be done in the future. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs clearly states that, in future, this general rule will continue to be that for the two parliaments, but also that the Constitution will not create a barrier to the fact that this cannot be done when it is considered together. Well, now on these grounds of urgency we should talk more about next week, but when you ask if something has suddenly happened quickly, it may not be so, but the pressure on that rush has grown all the time, and that pressure is increasing. For example, if I — this may be a bad example — stand in the floodwater and the water keeps rising, I have been busy all the time and the rush is getting worse and the fact that I have been busy for a long time does not remove the fact that it is not too busy. It's carefully considered. I would also like to say from this debate that it is a long time since it is nice to say how things can also be discussed constructively. This is so important, it's no use exasperating this. If we disagree, then we will be talking about it, and then there will be good results. This is the kind of thing that needs to be done well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u109	Madam President! First of all, thank you very much for the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, in particular, for the excellent contribution of Chairman Annika Lapintie and Vice-President Tapani Töll to moving this legislative package forward. After all, the committee was unanimous in its full composition, which shows that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also took this issue very seriously. The fact that, in this situation, we are introducing a change in the fast-track procedure to the protection of a confidential message, which is the protection of our Constitution, seems to me to be a very necessary and well-founded proposal. Unfortunately, Finland is lagging behind on this. In many speeches during the debate, during this first reading, it has emerged that we have so far relied on information provided by foreign states on what is happening in Finnish information networks, whether it is just normal information networks or information networks, such as those used by the authorities or by the Defence Forces or the Border Guard. Of course, the fact that we are in this situation is no one's fault, but that the world has changed so rapidly that we now have to adapt to that change, and as the last European State, we are creating this legislation that can be prepared for cyber threats and hybrid influence. It's today. The real big things are done in that information network today, and every single piece of information that moves there — most of it certainly is absolutely safe information, but unfortunately, as we have seen during this debate, there is also very dubious information about Finland's security, and it will be available from there until this law is put in place and the Finnish intelligence can also study these information networks in accordance with the Constitutional Act. These changes, which are now being adopted, have been made with careful consideration and, above all, in consultation with the committees and, according to their statements, there is a particular need for this legislative project. We are now making a very limited change to the protection of a confidential message, and it is quite true that we must be concerned about that protection of a confidential message. I believe that this limited change, which is now being made, is well-founded and proportionate compared to what the protection of the Constitution offers to confidential communications. The fact that fundamental rights are sometimes restricted is a normal procedure in Finnish legislation. Fundamental rights may be limited where the resulting restriction is proportionate to the benefit obtained. In many cases, this has been the case in previous years, and this is the way forward. And indeed, if the Constitution is to be changed, there must be very strong arguments for it and, in particular, a careful preparation, a good debate on the part of the public, and then a firm decision will be taken. It should also be borne in mind that information networks today also carry ordinary information, not only for the work of soldiers or the Border Guard, but also very dangerous data for ordinary people, such as financial threats or industrial espionage. There are espionage programmes in the information networks that we have not been able to prepare for so far, since our authorities have not been allowed to have in the information networks. It will then be possible to locate these spyware and other malware much better. After all, all these malware and spyware have one common denominator, like medicine on that side of medicine, that the disease must first be felt before it can be invented. It is quite the same that if any spyware or malware is detected, it cannot be done against the virus or against the malware unless the malware itself is known. This legislation will now make it possible to do so. Comprehensive supervision is part of this bill, that is to say, when new powers are given under the law, it must also be enforced, and that is what this law has also arranged. So here we are not going to call the war, but all these things are carefully and balancedly considered. Madam President! Finally, when this has been discussed at an accelerated reading, there have also been speeches that this should be taken up in accordance with the normal procedure, but that would in practice mean a delay of about two years for this law. I think that these events in the world, which we have seen recently in Finland and in our neighbourhood, are very strongly in favour of this procedure, which has now been put forward, according to which an accelerated procedure is taking place for this bill, being very good and well-founded, and I support that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u110	Madam President! After all, politics exists because there are different social interests, and then we try to reconcile them and debat them in this Chamber. However, it is a good thing that we have a mature nation and its parliament that we do not have to fight over all things, but when it comes to national interests and, above all, national security, we can find a very broad national consensus here. We have found that there is a very broad consensus in this Chamber that intelligence laws are needed. There is also a very broad consensus that the constitutional amendment needed for intelligence laws is needed. Then there may still be some discussion about the need for an accelerated procedure, but there would appear to be a very broad understanding — perhaps despite some small nuances — of the need for an accelerated order. The fact that, in the accelerated order of regulation, a majority of five-sixths is needed in itself to underline the fact that this is a rather exceptional arrangement and that there is a particularly good justification for it. But as we have seen, security threats and the international environment are on the rise. As far as our international comparisons are concerned, similar legislation has already been passed. In fact, we are already late with legislation of this kind, and it is excellent if we can now, fairly unanimously, come to an end there, that we can get up-to-date legislation on intelligence laws, too, and that we can bring the amendment of the Constitution into this House through by a five-sixth majority in this Chamber in an accelerated order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u111	Madam President! I would've gone on with that debattition when I was a little exhausted. In other words, the reason for limiting military activities and activities which seriously threaten national security is dealt with in the proposal. It is important that interference in the protection of the secret of a confidential message must be as targeted and limited as possible, as is the case, and that these conditions are met: the action has a connection with Finland and would threaten Finland's national security, even if it could also take place outside Finland's borders. Examples include terrorism, violent radicalisation or the activities of foreign intelligence services. One cannot help overemphasizing the obvious need for strong legal safeguards and supervision of the use of intelligence powers as a counterweight. Then this will be balanced. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee, the members and the committee advisers for this well-managed report. As far as this urgency is concerned, this is based on the fact that there is no absolute obstacle to dealing with as a matter of urgency. This was left to political consideration, so to speak, and for this great Chamber to decide. Personally, I consider this to be a good solution. Now, I am sure that the parties will be responsible for this issue at group meetings and in other contexts before next week's debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u112	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. 30 minutes are set aside for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 6. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u113	Mr President! This government proposal in the referral debate is of a rather technical nature and aims to remove red tape and streamline procedures. This government proposal proposes to abolish the provision on the obligation of the developer to submit to the building supervisor a certificate issued by the Tax Administration on the fulfilment of the obligation to provide information. In the future, a natural person operating as a builder would not have to present to the building supervision authority a certificate issued by the Tax Administration of the filing of a construction declaration for construction under a construction permit. As a result of the increased availability of information, the significance of the notification by the Building Supervisory Authority in reporting supervision has decreased. The Tax Administration will be more flexible in getting information on these issues. Another important point is that a provision should be added to the Tax Procedure Act and the Advance Recovery Act which allows the Tax Administration to communicate decisions and other documents electronically if the taxpayer has given its consent. These matters have already been dealt with in advance in the Committee on Finance's tax section, and I dare to anticipate that they will be taken forward in great agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u114	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 14 September 2018 and the debate is now continuing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u115	Mr President! We have in our hands the Annual Activity Report 2017 from Kela's delegates. We were able to start the debate a little earlier, but the debate was not finished and my speech was not finished, so I will continue with it now. The last year was exceptionally challenging for Kela. One of the biggest changes was the transfer of basic income support from municipalities to Kela as of 1 January 2017. There were no start-up difficulties as the treatment of basic income support was severely congested and more staff were needed, despite the fact that 740 people were already recruited for basic income support tasks at the end of 2016. I myself have worked in municipalities for income support, and already as Kela's delegate on several occasions I told you that the income support is of a completely different nature from the other social security benefits that Kela has previously dealt with. At that time, we also raised several times in the council that the number of employees will be larger than what Kela had previously had in other preferential positions. Despite these withdrawals, however, there was a strong belief that a significantly smaller number of personnel would be able to do more than in which municipalities income support work and benefit treatment had been done in the past. Well, at the moment we know that this is not the case. Of course, Kela still has less work than some person-years in use in basic income support, but Kela has pointed out on several occasions that this is a completely different benefit from other benefits and therefore also requires a completely different kind of person-years than other social security benefits. Kela has had to increase its staff. Kela has struggled with this 7-day processing time, still struggling, but especially 2017 was a difficult year for Kela. Some municipalities made decisions there until March, and this made things a little easier, but Kela had to react all the time to the fact that staff had to be trained and trained and hired. During the worst time, the income of the customers was secured by food and pharmaceutical commitments and additional income support was also granted to the municipalities. I regret that the special nature of income support was not entrusted in advance so that, in the case of these people who needed income support, it could have been avoided the damage which was then caused them. Kela's Board of Governors discussed the matter and also asked for an external report to learn what went wrong here and how these risks could be better managed in the future. This report indicated that the change could not be prepared in advance with a sufficient volume and that there were gaps between different parties in risk management, reporting and project management. This was all reflected in the external report received by Kela’s delegates at the end of 2017. We must learn lessons from these problems. Kela has also become a major competitor. A lot of competitions are carried out through the Procurement Act, and these competitions have also spoken to Kela's Board of Governors. I myself suggested that a section of the competitions could have been added to this authorised activity report for the last year, but I did not get any support for this proposal. Again, we are in a situation where taxi rides and rehabilitation services, among other things, constantly cause public discussions, but also a lot of contact from customers. These are also the outcome of the tendering process. I therefore hope that, when we make a report on the activities of Kela's delegates in 2018, we could also focus on Kela as a competitive tendering agent and past competitions, possibly on the problems in them, which could then also be dealt with here by Parliament with this report. This is an acute issue, which also applies to this year, and I myself will continue to pay attention to the tendering of the institution under the Parliament and the problems that lie in it. And I hope that we will then be able to discuss this in some other context. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u116	Mr President! In the last couple of years, Kela has been doing quite a spin. A lot of new things have come along, and I must say that amazingly well has been able to cope with them. It now seems that these delays, which have been, have been brought to an end and that these most vulnerable people will soon get their money there. Now, however, what scares the most is the sorrows of this active model one. When you cut the thirty, which means one week’s food for the smallest number of people who get along, you have to get that money from somewhere else or from a social welfare office. But how Kela can stretch and can Kela stretches to seeing new customers who became Kela’s customers, so that they too can be dealt with in a decent time, so that no one would have to wait three weeks or months for their money? People need their money when it's that day. Well, they've been counting so hard on how you're doing. But I am all amazed at how well we have been made to go. I have to say, when I myself called a person about the matter in Kela, that it was really nice when they answered right away and got help from there, that was something they took up, a human matter. Of course, it should be the case that these most vulnerable people are able to take care of their own business and get to Kela and not waste papers and things would work out well, but it is a good thing that we go even in this way. Keep Kela up and the taxes to the extent that we can keep it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u117	Mr President! I will continue to do so when, in my actual speech, I have only had time to ignore the debate we had here in the Chamber the last time we had a delegation from Kela regarding the competition for taxi rides. Even then, we heard a strange debate, as it were, in which Minister Berner felt that the reform of the law did not in any way cause the situation where Kela was with these taxi rides, Kela. Minister Mattila said that he had no authority to remedy the situation. As Kela's delegate, I understand that Kela specifically communicated to ministers and ministries that, if the law comes into force on that date, from the beginning of July, which was originally stated in the bill, this will cause difficulties for Kela. However, this observation was apparently left to Kela alone, and now, at the beginning of July, Kela was in a situation where, through the competitions of these brokerage centers, the rides across Finland were very hard to get. And who were the sufferers? The sufferers were the disabled, the sick, the elderly, all those who needed these Kela rides. I still think it is unclear. It is still unclear what can be done with this in order to make the situation work better at the moment, particularly here in Uusimaa. Several motorists have reported that they have, as it were, left tasks through the Kela rides because they were unable to take part after this tendering procedure as suppliers of transport services under the terms of these brokerage centres, and this is, of course, unfortunate. Many customers have had long - term relationships with these motorists, who are now at a bread - free table. For example, I know the situation with regard to Satakunta. Last week I got a call that in the evening time the Kela ride came from Turku via the Huittinen and two and a half hours after the call arrived at the customer. This is not, therefore, a system based on permanence and functionality. So it can be said that the Kela ride came true, but can we create a system based on this? We can't create it. So there is still a lot of work to be done to ensure that people get the service cut off within a reasonable time and are able to plan their activities properly around Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u118	Mr President! Now that I have the opportunity to tell the President — and above all I want to tell the President — it was today that I took a taxi to the dentist, in the middle of the day when I had to jump there, that the driver talked about these Kela rides and said that he has not taken a single Kela ride, and that is because, because of this new system, their salary, which they receive from it, fell by 28%. Twenty-eight percent cut in wages. That's one of the reasons we don't have enough cars to drive a Kela ride. Even motorists do not want to beat these, even if there are a lot of them, the loss will accumulate every hour. That you'd rather drive a normal ride. Now this reform has also happened that customers who wait for the Kela rides and do not get it cannot take a regular taxi with the same money. If they take a regular taxi, their share of the charge is 50 euros when it is 25 euros in Kela ride — that is, in long trips, when we talk about these TYKS to Vaasa or something like that. Another depravity: If, for example, from Pietarsaari — I am now using these examples because I know that Madam President knows the place — a person comes to the central hospital in Vaasa and goes there under control, for example, which takes half an hour to an hour, then the taxi has to go to Pietarsaari. It must not wait for this customer to come back with a return ride, but the customer will then take a new Kela taxi with which to drive to Pietarsaari, and the car will come back empty again. That this is the kind of palms that have come to visit you, which make your life very difficult, and I wish these greetings would go forward, because these are what you hear from that field, what people tell you. Then the taxi driver, who was driving today and drove me, said that the next big wave will come at the turn of the year, that then the parents and the older drivers will stop the whole operation because they think it is no longer profitable. But this taxi conversation is another conversation. All right, here's what's going on with the
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-26-ps-90.u119	Mr President! I could talk about this Kela taxi thing for an hour, but I will move on to another subject because we are here alone with Mr Tolppanen. But I'm still in the competition. Now I would like to highlight the competition for rehabilitation for Kela. The messages that come from people who work in rehabilitation are quite harsh to hear. They consider that after the call for tenders by Kela, for example, even though established service providers have been deprived of contracts for plant rehabilitation because these tenders are therefore based on 80 % of the price. For example, long-term factors were left uncontracted and new players started planning and resourcing courses only after the contract had been awarded and then had to acquire the know-how that happened to them. This message is strongly received from organisations, among others. The organisations tell us that they have received messages from these contracting parties asking, for example, for basic information about a particular disease, which this new, successful service provider has not had. And this is a worrying message, of course, because the previous knowledge, the experience that has been gained for these sick people, for example, seems to be completely wasted. Sick people also find themselves in unequal situations when they end up in places of rehabilitation where there are already working groups, or where there are no processes at all. Among other things, the message has come from the fact that there are fewer people seeking rehabilitation than before. This may be due to the fact that messages about the quality of rehabilitation have not all been very good and people do not want to seek them. If you compare previous rehabilitations, which were queued and not accessible to all willing ones, then this too is a worrying message. So this is something that Kela's delegates need to take a closer look at, and here I am reminding myself.
