ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. The draft law decided at first reading must be dealt with in the order in which the Constitution is adopted. The bill can now, unless declared urgent by a majority of at least five sixths, be adopted to rest in the first parliamentary elections after the parliamentary elections or rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u2	Madam President! There is an amendment to the Constitution which is needed in order for the intelligence laws to be adopted this term in Parliament. The question is that the law can provide for the necessary restrictions on the protection of the message, including in the fight against crime. So far, it has been possible to solve crimes. In addition, national security is a new criterion. It is by no means a black and white matter, but I am in favour of this constitutional change. In parliamentary proceedings, I would like to ensure that there are strict firewalls for intelligence and that human rights are always respected. The permit for an intelligence operation can only be obtained on strong grounds through the District Court of Helsinki. The new Intelligence Commissioner is an important judicial officer and parliamentary control is carried out by the new Committee on Intelligence. The Greens consider it necessary to have the whole operation of the protection police, that is to say, of the aid, under parliamentary control. Its role is now changed from a police organisation to an intelligence organisation. A careful parliamentary procedure is necessary so that we do not create a public prying machine with security. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u7	Mr President! Now we are dealing with the draft reform of the Constitution at second reading. Last week there was a first reading, and it was noteworthy that there was a great deal of agreement both on the content and on the need for constitutional change. That is a very important point. The amendment of the Constitution is always important and needs to be carefully prepared, and one can say that this preparation of the amendment has taken place in a thorough, thorough and broad-based manner. In fact, this work started during the last parliamentary term, and the Ministry of Justice working group was set up in 2015 and completed its work in autumn 2016. There was a broad-based expert group, which also heard a significant number of experts. At the end of 2015, a parliamentary monitoring group was also set up, which has dealt with this constitutional amendment with great care. There was also an extensive consultation before this came to Parliament. It should be noted that this amendment to the Constitution is quite specific: it concerns one paragraph. There was one slightly broader point in this government proposal, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs rightly excluded. It should be noted that this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is unanimous and, when it was drawn up and decided on the report, the committee was full in number. This is not a matter of little importance. This also provides the basis for further processing. It should be noted that there has been no Government-Opposition in this work but there is no parliamentary preparation. This amendment has not been made for this government or for the next government, but for the long future, and that is why we need to build on strong confidence. Despite the changes in the political climate that always exist, we must be able to rely on this system. It is a key factor in the security of our society, which means that we are making a future here. I am not going through these specific laws in this context: substance laws, civil intelligence, military intelligence, control, judicial control and parliamentary control, it is its own, but this constitutional amendment lays the foundations for them. One aspect of this is the issue that has been a great deal in the debate, and that is whether this will allow mass control. It should be clearly stated that this is not allowed. The conditions for restricting fundamental rights and the conditions laid down by the committee are fully in force when assessing the relationship between these specific laws and this Constitution. This creates a safe perspective. Now we have been discussing how urgent this is and whether something has suddenly happened. I can tell you that this has been a long time, it has not come in the moment. It can therefore be said that if this is postponed, it too is a very big decision. It should also be noted that it cannot be concluded from this that a constitutional amendment is always made by an urgent procedure. That is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs very strongly points out in its report. Mr President! With reference to Article 73 of the Constitution, I propose that this bill be declared urgent, i.e. dealt with by an urgent procedure, which means that it can be adopted in these Parliaments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u8	Madam President! In its report, the Constitutional Committee of the Parliament has assessed the Government's proposal to amend Article 10 of the Finnish Constitution. The committee does not see any obstacles to amending the Constitution in an urgent order. This would make it possible to draw up intelligence legislation during the current parliamentary term. From the point of view of our parliamentary history, it is very important that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has produced a unanimous report on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u11	Madam President! There must always be a very high threshold for amending the Constitution, and this threshold already comes from the order in which the Constitution should be amended. The even higher threshold, the extremely high threshold, must be in urgency, in declaring the change urgent. Madam President! In this debate, it is necessary to distinguish between constitutional change, the law on intelligence and the declaration of urgency of constitutional change. At first reading it became clear that the constitutional amendment enjoys consensus here: everyone is ready to do so. The intelligence laws, on which Mr Karimäki focused in particular in his speech, are a completely different matter. They will come to the hearing at a later stage. There are many duubies in their content, but it is possible to regulate them afterwards if this amendment to the Constitution is adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u18	Madam President! I must admit that I do not fully understand this logic of the Left Alliance, even if it is a representative. Arhinmäki thoroughly presented their point of view. If and when the Left-wing Alliance also consider this amendment to the Constitution to be justified and necessary, and when the Constitutional Committee has made it quite clear that this is not a precedent for always changing the Constitution in an urgent procedure, then I do not understand how we will then end up opposing this declaration of urgency. None of us can see the future, no one knows what would happen during the year or two, on which basis the project would be delayed, but when we are already lagging behind in relation to these powers in relation to other countries comparable to Finland, we should not prevent the urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u19	Mr President! There is broad agreement on the reform of intelligence laws and it is a very good thing that agreement has now been reached on their content. But I, perhaps a little afterwards, have been left with the question of whether it would have been possible to bring these intelligence laws forward at a time, so that each law would be enacted in the constitutional order. I know that the legal scholars are, and I myself believe that such a practice is not good and it is important that the Constitution is sufficiently clear to give answers to all questions. But the question remains that, now that this constitutional amendment is adopted, does it mean — and I hope that, for example, a representative will: In the future, we could comment on this — that, in a simple legislative order, we can, for example, return to the original government proposals which have now been agreed here to be amended in a way acceptable to all, without any constitutional change being required.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u20	Mr President! I believe that the views raised by the Left Alliance and Mr Arhinmäki and by the Judge-in-Office are well-founded and must be taken seriously. The threshold for the amendment of the Constitution is high, and Parliament must show, if it decides to speed up the amendment of the Constitution, the seriousness of the fact that, at the same time, it stresses that this does not set a precedent for the fact that fundamental and human rights, in particular, which are admittedly being restricted in the Constitution, are going to change in the future. The only reason why I can consider the urgency procedure here is that this Parliament, far beyond the Government-Opposition boundaries, sees together the development of the content of its intelligence laws in such a way that there can be a broad consensus that we will have intelligence laws that will also respect the fundamental and human rights requirements of this new constitution and that we will also have better control. It will then be seen that the benefits of a year-to-year—two in introducing intelligence law practices are so great that the urgency of the Constitution is exceptional, but even then, underlining the view of the Constitutional Committee that this is an exception. I think it was an important statement from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u21	Mr President! These are the issues raised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and by Mr Niinistö, as well as by the monitoring group, which have been carefully considered. As far as the adoption of the ordinary law is concerned, in a difficult order: it has not been done for years, but the starting point is that the legislative proposals must be brought into line with the Constitution. This is the starting point. As far as the future is concerned, whether anything can be done in a normal way: it cannot be done. In accordance with this report and in accordance with this proposal, these restrictions on the application of the provision are fully in force and every new bill should be carefully mirrored in accordance with the Constitution and the framework conditions are very strict. It should also be noted that the general conditions for limiting fundamental rights are fully in place so that in this respect, life can be taken forward very safely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u22	Madam President! First of all, I would like to warmly thank Mr Töll, Chairman of the Parliamentary Working Group, and Mr Lapintie, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, for the considerable work he has done, that we are at this point in the debate on this constitutional amendment. As a general rule, there should be a normal procedure for amending the Constitution, but I think that the points that have been made here are very clear as to why this has to be carried through as a matter of urgency. We clearly have a deteriorating security situation and, as we have heard here, we rely on intelligence from other countries. At the same time, we need to prepare for Finland’s national security threats. If this procedure were not rushed, these intelligence laws would enter into force at the earliest by 2020, but it is now possible to advance that they will enter into force at the end of 2018 or [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u23	Mr President! I would now like to make it clear that this parliamentary monitoring group did not consider this urgency, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which it was discussed, also unanimously decided not to declare this proposal urgent, that is to say, this is a political consideration which is being made in Parliament. For the Left Alliance, this is an important question of principle. We want to keep the threshold for amending the Constitution as high as possible in the future. It should be stressed that representatives of foreign powers, for example, do not enjoy the protection of the Finnish Constitution, but are now concerned with the rules of Finnish democracy and the fundamental rights and limitations of Finns. This is now a deviation from the normal procedure as regards the amendment of the Constitution. In the event of a deviation from the normal procedure, it should be possible to demonstrate with particular precision and conviction that these criteria for the use of the urgency procedure are met. This has not been done in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u24	Mr President! Representative Arhinmäki required a high threshold for both the constitutional amendment and the urgent handling of it. I agree with that. However, I believe that this threshold has clearly been exceeded. The urgent need has been known for a long time, and the fact that time has now passed does not, in my opinion, undermine this urgency — I will only mention from the point of view of civil security the terrorist activity, which we have unfortunately also experienced in Finland, and then the hybrid effect seen from the point of view of military security. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not make a request for urgency, but nevertheless stated that there was an exceptional need for the use of the urgency procedure and that there was an urgent situation. I am surprised that Mr Arhinmäki did not make these observations there in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, while the Committee on Constitutional Affairs just leaned on the opinions and expert hearings of the other committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u25	Mr President! This is a unanimous assessment of the content itself. However, before I go there, I would like to do what many others — a rather rare observation in this Chamber — have to say that I thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Lapintie, and in particular the representative, for the responsible and good handling of this matter. This is a very valuable piece of work that has been carried out for a long time so that this broad consensus may have arisen. I think it is a subject to be quoted because it is not quite obvious and it has not been very easy, so thank you for where it belongs. Then there's the matter. Somehow I feel that this is a cause for great disagreement. If the Left Alliance also says that they accept this content, then we will agree on how fundamental rights will be upheld and these security aspects will be taken into account when making the law. The only disagreement is whether this is done urgently or not, and it is more a doctrinal disagreement than a fundamental right dispute. I therefore believe that the position of the Left Alliance can be appreciated as one element of national consensus.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u26	Mr President! I think that Mr Arhinmäki gave a very heavy and good speech. I think that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a good job and, of course, it is important that, when we are about to change the Constitution, there is agreement on it. In my opinion, this debate on the procedure and the vote on the procedure seems to be problematic because it is actually distracting attention from this main issue, which is the great thing. I, too, drew attention to the fact that the Constitutional Committee is not proposing, on the contrary, underlining the exceptionality. They also use a language which, however, has not been repeated by the Special Committees when they have required an exceptional and necessary need or that is, except in an overriding situation. Constitutional experts have also taken a negative view of this accelerated procedure. I think that one example of how it might be useful to spend a little more time — but this is not a very long time — is that the Constitutional Committee has required control to be balanced with this intelligence legislation itself. At the moment, the budget is totally under-funded for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u27	Mr President! Here the representative of the Court of Justice spoke of the fact that there has been an agreement on the content. I hope, however, that he did not mean the intelligence laws yet, because they have not been dealt with. Among other things, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will not take a position on them until they arrive. Mr Zyskowicz said that this is not a precedent, but you are a member of the Constitutional Committee, as I am, and all our solutions are, in a certain way, preliminary rulings. This is the first time that the current Constitution has taken a position on urgency, so there is a reference for a preliminary ruling in that sense. Representative Mr Räsänen pointed out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had stated that this would be the preconditions for an urgent procedure — as I pointed out in the previous debate — that this was also the way we could think — but the following paragraph 41, however, states that we are not taking a position. I hope this is read here as it is written.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u28	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz was calling for consistency here, and tomorrow we will see if the left-wing parliamentary group is the only one who is consistent and the only one who does not trade important things. We will not sign any secret additional protocols. [Department : Ohhh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u30	Madam President! It is clear that the Constitution must not be amended on the basis of skewed criteria and, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs points out in its own opinion, it should be the main rule in the future when the Constitution is amended that it should be done by two different parliaments. However, the present Constitution is already familiar with the possibility of a constitutional change which will take place during one and the same parliamentary term, but it requires a very broad national consensus, a majority of five-sixths in this Chamber. And, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its own opinion, in the light of the report made in the government proposal, the opinions received by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from other committees and the other expert opinion received by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it can be considered that the situation differs from the constitutional changes previously discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with the exceptional need for an urgent procedure and an urgent situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u31	Madam President! I don't think that's my logic either. If we are in agreement on this matter and the content of the law, why can we not deal with and decide this as a matter of urgency,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u34	Mr President! The amendment of the Constitution has been deliberately made difficult in order to leave sufficient room for civil dialogue and political process. I myself am a little concerned that I do not yet see such a proper civil debate around these issues. Citizens do not necessarily know what these changes mean. Of course, when dealing with the secret and the protection of a confidential message, the fundamental right, which already leaves it from the time of the secrecy of the letter, is being interfered with. It concerns individuals, it concerns companies, it may also concern media and their representatives, journalists in certain cases. I think this should be taken seriously. The problem with this urgent declaration right now is that, of course, we do not yet know the exact content of future intelligence laws. Representative It has done a very good job and consulted here, and we have tried to create this common agenda, but in some way it would be good if we also had in our hands the formulations that these intelligence laws will eventually turn out to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u35	Madam President! General technological development requires a new type of intelligence. The situation in Europe and the world has become increasingly difficult. In particular, horrendous terrorism has become more and more apparent. These are all the reasons why the reform of the intelligence laws is necessary. We have read in the newspapers what changes are coming to this government bill of intelligence, but we do not actually have any information on them. I hope that these are really moving forward, because there are a lot of the critical points that the Left Alliance has also raised. But now we are not discussing the content of the intelligence law, but the amendment of the Constitution and its urgency. In the past there was talk of a constitutional right, and now we must probably talk about a constitutional left, which highlights the fact that there must be a very high threshold for declaring urgency. I do not understand where this argument comes from for two years, when, in fact, this can be stipulated during this parliamentary term that only those articles that do not go through can be made at the beginning of the next term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u36	Mr President! The content of the intelligence law is certainly not a controversial theme for anyone, but, of course, this procedure raises a lot of questions, especially for the citizens. This haste often leads to what has now been seen in the social reform, for example, what kind of soup is boiled when it is done in a hurry. In other words, things of this size should not be done without careful preparation and a procedure that would increase transparency and confidence for citizens. Of course, I understand that Finland needs to be able to respond to all kinds of threats today, and the protection police need more tools, as well as the Defence Forces for intelligence and defence, but at the same time we need to understand that citizens of course think about whether this new intelligence law will be applied in such a way as some countries that are currently following e-mails with a few words extra, which are not part of a normal person's e-mail list, so that they will all be read. However, this is the fear of the future for the citizens, and these fears must be dispelled, as Mr Tölli has said. In that sense, we must, as responsible decision-makers, make such legislation that increases trust and does not take it away.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u37	Madam President! It is good to remember that this amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution has undergone very careful parliamentary preparation, and that is the basis of everything. Mr Tölli, chairman of the monitoring group, and all those who worked in that group and all the parties involved in this matter have done a very good job, a very good job. It should also be remembered that we are not going into a wild jungle here, but, for example, in these areas of intelligence there will now be comprehensive control, parliamentary control, which is a very good thing. Power without responsibility and control cannot exist. Here, too, this old wisdom will come true. Monitoring will come and it will always be under parliamentary control, that is a very good thing. Remember, too, that when fundamental rights are restricted, that has been done before. Fundamental rights have been restricted on various occasions and for various reasons, but whenever the Constitutional Committee has said so, the argument has been that, when fundamental rights are restricted, the benefits achieved must be greater than the disadvantages,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u38	Madam President! When there is too little praise in Finnish culture in general, I too would like to thank Mr Töll here for the valuable work he has done on this proposal and also Mr Lapintie and the entire Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I must now also pay tribute to the Socialist Group, who gave an excellent speech at the mouth of Mr Mika Kari. A responsible speech, which could probably have come from a blue mouth, when the name had only been changed from a group. It gave Mr Kari a very important view that we can at the same time take care of both the fundamental rights of citizens and the security of citizens. With this very broad unity, from which only some are different, we are able to convince the citizens. That is why I am a little surprised at the views of Mr Biaudet and also of Mr Niiko that something has been done too urgently about this proposal. Five years of work started as an official in 2013, and we are now at this point. It is difficult to see how work has been done too quickly, but it is precisely the careful work that has been done to ensure that these fundamental rights and citizens' rights are respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u39	Mr President! There was a debate here about whether, alternatively, individual laws could be adopted by a majority of five-sixths, and that is what has been done. I recall that when a decision was taken on the role of the President in sending crisis management forces to the EU too, that decision was taken more than a decade ago by means of this derogation procedure. So such a course has been in use, although it is not generally to be supported. Then, in relation to the whole of the reform, this is an important solution, and I still think it is appropriate to say that, although there is little difference between the procedure and the entry into force, it is a very rare Parliament that everyone agrees with the content itself. Everyone agrees with the content itself on how the Constitution should be written, with a 100% consensus. Then there is a slight difference of opinion as to whether it will come into effect in the next few minutes or a year. I would not say that this difference is very large in terms of history.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u40	Let us take eight more replies and then go back to the list of speakers, at least for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u41	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a very good job on the challenging terrain and has written a good report, and it is quite clear that it does not include any kind of open proxy or loophole that lowers the threshold to make changes to the Constitution by means of an urgent procedure, but that threshold is and remains the same. Of course, when it comes to the necessity and urgency of this law, we talk about time: what is the lost time that will come if we do not accept this as an urgent matter? Time is not money, but it is security. When it comes to safety, you have to put the cats on the table. If something were to happen in this country and we do not have this law in force and this lost time is caused by us and it can be said with some probability that, for example, it would have been possible to prevent the attack if the authorities had had sufficient authority, then please help me with the amount of hindsight that is in this society. Now we have the opportunity to make this decision, and it will be done tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u42	Mr President! In discussing the government's proposal to amend the Constitution in urgent order, the Constitutional Committee heard constitutional experts twice on the same subject. First, on the basis of a government proposal, it was asked to take a position on the urgency of the proposal and, once the opinions of the sub-committees — the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Administrative Committee and the Defence Committee — on the urgency and security situation had been received again, constitutional experts were consulted again. After these consultations, it was not apparent from the statement of any constitutional scholar that someone would see an absolute obstacle to declaring this urgent. They considered it possible, others took a more critical view of it, saw that there were not very many grounds for urgent regulation, but no one saw an absolute constitutional obstacle. On the basis of this, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs then came to the conclusion of an assessment at the end of its own report of the fact that there are elements in the security situation that make this provision urgently necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u43	Mr President! The last time the Constitution was amended, a self-explanatory booklet on the contents of the Constitution was distributed to all households in Finland. I believe that this tradition should continue, and every time the Constitution changes, a booklet, a self-explanatory brochure, about what was changed and what it means should be distributed to all households. Of course, from a democratic point of view, it would be best if such a proposal for a change were to be distributed to households in the form of a proposal for a change and the people were asked whether they would accept the constitutional reform envisaged by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u44	President! I believe that the preparation of this package of intelligence laws has been very proper, and in particular I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and then Vice-President Töll as well. I can well understand those statements that have come from the left. In view of the ideological background of the Left Alliance, I agree with it, of course, that criticalness to such matters is clear from the early 40s. But the debate on whether or not to declare this urgent is also linked to the fact that there are grounds for that content debate. We are years behind the intelligence system and the intelligence law that is in the rest of the world, in the rest of Europe. If we now fail to declare this urgent, the next Parliament will examine it and examine it for some 1.5 to 2 years and then take a decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u45	So at this stage, four more replies and then we go to the list of speakers, and these four people are representatives of Mika Kari, Niinistö, Andersson and Tölli.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u46	Madam President! I have been able to act in the Committee on Defence and in the Parliamentary Committee on Administration, which is also known as the Police Committee, since 2011, for almost eight years now, and when I listen to the comments made in this debate too, that there has been no change in our security environment during this time, no change that could be made in this order of constitutional regulation by haste to deal with, I am surprised at those arguments, mainly because we in Parliament have the best possible information available on these matters, on matters of our security. And that this constitutional order would set a precedent, I can't believe it. The Constitution is not a round door in which laws can be put to rest; they are dealt with in a proper order, and here we have the unanimous position of the Constitutional Committee behind us. I agree with Mr Heinäluoma that we are facing a little doctrinal dispute here, not so much about content, but perhaps something between doctrinal and ideological. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u47	Mr President! The content of the constitutional amendment is now essential here too when assessing the risk of haste. We agree with the content, and in it the Committee on Constitutional Affairs significantly reduced the absence of the original proposal in relation to fundamental and human rights, because this breach of the protection of confidential information is only possible when it is necessary and, at the same time, the threshold of serious threat to national security was raised high. In other words, the Constitutional Committee has already made a statement protecting fundamental and human rights as to how this can be applied in different situations in the future, and it protects the fundamental rights of Finns. Since we all agree on that content, if this were left to rest in the next Parliament, the next Parliament should accept it in the same content. So we agree on the content. Elections are unlikely to change the outcome, as all parties agree on the content. What is essential now is that even what hastens — the content of the intelligence law — we are of the same mind enough to be able to trust each other so that this can be rushed so that there can be no conflict and what citizens should be able to consider over the elections. I do not see that there is such a risk if we are here, on the basis of the good work done by Mr Töll and the work carried out by Mr Lapintie.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u48	Mr President! I do not think this is a minor disagreement, but it is a matter of fundamental importance, namely whether the Finnish people are allowed to express their opinion through parliamentary elections in a situation where changes and restrictions are being made to their fundamental rights. That's what this is all about. The need for intelligence laws and this urgency are constantly getting confused in the debate. The speeches that have been made here on the change in the security environment, on technological developments, have all been commendable and are in favour of the need for new intelligence powers, but they are no argument in favour of an urgent procedure. Similarly, it has been said here that there is agreement on content. We have not even begun to deal with these actual intelligence laws. This is only a matter of constitutional change, and there is agreement on that substantive change. Intelligence laws are still a separate entity,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u49	And then we'll go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u50	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank everyone who has been involved in this work. This is not done yet, it is in the middle, but I thank you for what has been done so far. I would like to draw attention to what Mr Niinistö has pointed out: if it moves to the next Parliament and is no longer amended, it must be accepted in terms of its substance, what consideration is there other than whether it is rejected or accepted?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u53	Mr President! When Mr Andersson spoke about the need for these intelligence laws, this is very clear to me, so that of course the most serious threats from intelligence laws do not come from Finland. They come from our international environment, they have their international origins, and these threats and risks clearly have their links outside our country's borders. They come from there, not from the suspicion of Finnish people. This makes it possible for the state administration, the security authorities, to have a current picture of the situation as a basis for their own decision-making, and that is something that Finland must have as much as any other country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u54	We are now going on the list of speakers, as has been said, and then, in a moment, we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u55	Mr President! It is important that Parliament now stops for a moment to discuss this draft amendment to the Constitution. Amendmenting the Constitution is not a everyday matter and cannot stress enough how exceptional it is to present the amendment of the Constitution as a matter of urgency. The reason why it has been made difficult to change the Constitution or to make it difficult to do so is, of course, to give sufficient room to the civil debate and the political process, the political debate. I believe that this background has a particular weight in a world in which even in democratic countries we see constitutional changes that seek to freeze power structures or reduce citizens' rights. I believe that this should also be reflected in this international debate. This change concerns a very important matter, the secret of a confidential message, the principle, one could say very old principle, the secrecy of letters and the secret of communication that we have always respected. It concerns individuals, businesses, it can also concern journalists and the media and their source protection in the worst case scenario. When this draft amendment to the Constitution is discussed, of course, it must always be seen against this whole set of intelligence laws, and it is only in this parliamentary process that it is taking shape. We do not yet have any specific articles on how to amend the legislation on civilian intelligence and military intelligence. However, I think it is necessary to say a few of the principles attached to them in connection with this debate. The first idea I have on this whole relates to the proposed Committee on Intelligence and also to the Intelligence Commissioner, who, I hope, is mentally sufficiently distant from the intelligence authorities. But I have certain duubies that, at the same time as the Parliament is forming a Committee on Intelligence, the protection police will carry out a comprehensive security investigation of its members, i.e. a monitoring officer. I believe that there is a imbalance here which Parliament should be more concerned about dealing with this issue, the intelligence laws. My second concern concerns the international exchange of information. We in Finland always think that the authority is honest and the authority has no political goals, but there is a lot of intelligence agencies around the world that operate on very different rules of play from our own intelligence authorities. Now that we are very much underlining the fact that we are able to exchange information with these intelligence authorities, this may mean, for those people whose information is exchanged, totally impossible human rights and civil rights situations if we deal with authoritarian regimes, for example, where people can be placed on the list of accused people without a judicial process. In other words, this importance of the exchange of information must also be provided with a specific provision, which is what it means for civil rights and human rights in the worst situations. I do not want to mention the countries where this risk exists, but unfortunately there are quite a few in today's world. My third concern relates to mass control, on which it has been proven with many mouths that this is not the case. The opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs states that, in many countries, it is called mass control activities in which the information stream can be used to search for individual data or a single keyword. This may be a little semantic, but in a certain sense we might not want to be lulled into calling in Finland an activity with the name of mass control in other parts of the world. I hope that this will be addressed in greater detail. Mr President! Finally, I would like to underline the principle that, even if a method of monitoring is possible in today's digital world, it does not yet mean that it is morally acceptable or in accordance with the legal order. This present world of knowledge and digital information and social media gives the authorities the opportunity to gather information from a wide range of sources from individual people, and we can here in Parliament, and we must also set a limit where this privacy protection is protected. Of course, this intelligence legislation is only one example, but it must also be drawn from other legislation. The public is very concerned that there is information about them that someone can collect and form people's profiles on this basis. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u56	Mr President! We are dealing with legislation that is very important, which is of national importance. I have been part of this parliamentary preparatory working group, which Mr Tölli has done well, and we have really done a thorough job, spent a lot of hours and gained a lot of information on this issue. It is only this time that we are discussing this urgency, and that is what I am going to focus on, because those laws are a completely different matter and will be discussed later. The fact that a broad consensus has been reached on this issue across the political boundaries shows, among other things, that Mr Tölli made the proposal on urgency and was supported by Mr Kari. That is quite an indication that there is now a desire to work together in this House on an important issue. Why, then, do we have the possibility at all that a constitutional change can be made as a matter of urgency? It is, of course, for the purpose that if there are really national or other very important issues and causes, then such a change of law can be made. And now that is the situation, it is right here and now. I will focus on the justification, because this is now about this declaration of urgency, only the facts, that is, why it is urgent and not these other laws. First of all, we are seriously behind the comparative, 20 years at least, if not more. Our authorities lack a toolbox on how to deal with and deal with these issues in this new cyber and digital world, which brings its own new challenges. In other words, our authorities do not have the opportunity to monitor what is happening in this area in a significant way at national level. The international situation has changed dramatically. Terrorism has become surprisingly commonplace, and cyber attacks, which I have already mentioned, can cripple industrial institutions, banking systems and many other institutions that are important to society. Of course, this is not the least of all the military intelligence law, because it also allows for intelligence in our neighbourhood in a different way than has been the case so far. After all, we have not had a proper opportunity to conduct foreign intelligence, which is what military agents and the like and diplomacy have been able to do. We have simply been too dependent on foreign countries. I happen to know this very closely because of one of my duties, in which I was able to follow the way in which foreign intelligence is handled. It’s a ‘giveandtake’:if you don’t have any money, you don’t have anything. It's an interaction. Now our authorities have access to goods of marketing value that can be used in such situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u61	Let's go on this list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u62	Madam President! Even from that last speech, you could see how difficult it is to speak of the constitutional change itself as merely a constitutional change, because it is not a constitutional change, but a social need and these debates, specifically as regards the powers of intelligence. In this debate, it is good to keep separate the fact that it is a constitutional amendment and, when and if it is amended, it will also apply to laws other than this package of intelligence laws, i.e. the protection of a confidential message, under certain conditions, can in future be dealt with in the ordinary legislative procedure, i.e. by a normal simple majority, just as we would have any law. Of course it will come to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but there we are examining the framework conditions that we have now laid down, among other things, in this report for this content. Although Mr Zyskowicz stated that this is not a reference for a preliminary ruling of any kind, there are many ways in which it will be a reference for a preliminary ruling and this will be used in the coming years. If and when the amendment of the Constitution goes through this way, then if there are other laws that go beyond this revised article, this will be a preliminary ruling. [Left: Yes!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u67	Madam President! — Yes, in fact, I will continue to say that we are from Impivaara, as we are very often told. But, Madam President, this is an urgent amendment of the Constitution. Indeed, there is always a high threshold for urgent change. We are certainly all in agreement that a great deal needs to be done about security and we must also be prepared, but on the other hand, there is also a vain hope and perhaps over-exaggeration of fears — I understand that we need to be ready and watch out — that it may not be worth it at this stage. It is quite right, as Mr Meri said, that we already have a lot of things to pay attention to at the moment. We have precisely these land shops, and perhaps we could also think about the root cause for the trade. Has the government made such a policy that landowners and farmers and householders are forced to sell to foreigners because there is no buyer in the country of origin? What has happened to the value of the land and the price of the land, and especially in remote areas, to property prices? They've collapsed, haven't they? It's understandable that the deal is for whoever buys the property. Nobody wants to sell their own property at a loss. Madam President! I remember that when Minister Orpo told me about the budget, there was one mention of the word that we have had here in a burning hurry to move forward, that is to say, the war. He mentioned that, hopefully, we will be able to finish the war, so that there will also be a gap in Parliament's intelligence law. Now I'm wondering. I am not a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and we have been sitting there from morning to evening, and we have been told that it is hard to get the social welfare laws to the finish line. Where are they now? And what has happened to the urgent social package, which is now stopping? The government could tell us fairly whether to continue working there or to move on to this intelligence law package, because this is certainly time-consuming and certainly requires a lot of resources. Please do not put us there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health if your proposal is falling down and it is not progressing. With these words I would like to comment on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u70	Madam President! The idea of authorities having access to my personal communication is distressing. Not because my messages are somehow unpublished or embarrassing, but because my privacy has an inalienable value in itself. I must have the right to decide for myself how to open my privacy to the authorities or to the public. It is no coincidence that the protection of domestic peace and the secret of a confidential message have been placed in the same passage in our constitution. Both are about privacy — the right to privacy. Privacy is an inalienable part of the foundation of democracy. It is at least as important a democratic structure as freedom of opinion and expression. The fact that confidential communication enjoys strong protection makes it possible to have full freedom to think and exchange thoughts. Freedom of thought makes it possible to have a democracy — a genuine opportunity for citizens to participate in political power. The hallmark of totalitarian societies is to increase the authority of the authorities to control citizens. There is a low threshold for breaking the secret of a confidential message in totalitarian states. They also restrict freedom of expression. The position of the free press is becoming cramped, the authorities have access to peace at home. In totalitarian countries, the freedom to think and exchange of ideas is strictly limited, limited in order not to increase the democratic requirements, and limited in view of the threat to the position of those in government. Mr President! The defence of democracy requires not only the safeguarding of freedom of expression but also the ability to combat in advance threats that would seriously jeopardise our national security. The need to amend the Constitution, which addresses the secret of a confidential message, is based on the belief that intelligence on communications is an increasingly important means of combating such threats. Existing legislation does not allow for the kind of intelligence that is needed in the current situation. As regards intelligence, Finland is dependent on the assistance of some neighbouring countries, which in some cases poses a risk to national security. When considering the government's proposal to amend Article 10 of the Constitution, the Constitutional Committee has carefully assessed the draft law, as has been shown here. In its report, which it unanimously adopted, the committee has tried to write out as unambiguously as possible the limits within which the authorities must remain when new intelligence powers are introduced and when the court decides on these permits. We do not want to take a step towards giving someone the opportunity to move, to develop Finland into a totalitarianly governed society. We want to safeguard the right of citizens to privacy by setting sufficiently strict constitutional limits to the absence of a confidential message. We clearly want to reject so-called mass control. This is reflected in the text of our report. I quote the text of the report: ‘The proposed regulation does not allow general, untargeted and comprehensive monitoring of information In addition, the committee stresses that the amendment of the law does not permit any experimental intelligence operation at a general level. No general combing will be permitted by the amendment of Article 10 of the Constitution. The authority applying for an intelligence authorisation shall demonstrate that, in each situation, the method of intelligence that is lacking in the protection of a confidential message is an effective and necessary means of obtaining information on activities that seriously threaten national security. It must therefore be an effective and necessary means. In adopting this report, Parliament is therefore setting a steep limit to the mass control of the intelligence activities of the authorities now and in the future. It doesn't allow mass surveillance. Mr President! I support the adoption of the amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution in the form set out in the report and support the consideration of the matter in the urgent order of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u71	Mr President! The protection of private life and the protection of media secrecy are very old fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law, and there must be a high threshold for tampering with them. During my time as a Member of Parliament, they have been tampered with, among other things, by allowing a certain degree of seriousness in the crimes to be committed to the police to obtain tele-identification data and to listen to telecommunications. On the seventh page of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I think one fundamental point is made about what this change is now related to. The committee notes this: ‘Although the communication of a foreign military or other authority organisation is protected by the right to communicate, military intelligence powers cannot in all cases be strictly limited to information on the The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that the scope of the provision is limited, as described in the explanatory memorandum to the Government's proposal, to the acquisition of information only on military activities directed at Finland or on military activities relevant to the Finnish security environment. Otherwise, the committee would also stress the need for a restrictive interpretation of the restriction criterion.’ Well, we know, and it has already been said many times, that haste in constitutional changes is exceptional, and in this regard this attempt to speed up is linked to the intelligence law, the content of which we do not yet know. In the course of this government, trust has been broken in many ways, for many different reasons, and in this context I would like to stress that it is really important for the government to respect the parliamentary work that has been done under the leadership of Mr Töll. I agree with what has been said here about the work of the working group chaired by Mr Töll. The doubts that exist among the citizens are understandable. After all, the government has undermined respect for human rights, including in the area of asylum policy, and it is natural that there will then be a suspicion that this will be a wider tendency to ignore human rights. On the other hand, at best, intelligence laws will clarify the legal and illegal border and, at the same time, strengthen police control. After all, the intelligence law itself has been considered necessary during the previous Parliament and the previous government. It is important that the intelligence law is written in such a way that the human rights perspective is respected. For example, the issue raised by Mr Haavisto on respect for human rights in international cooperation in intelligence is very important. It is very important that data on individual people should not continue to leak from Finland to countries where human rights are not respected. It is also very important that the overseer is monitored. For example, when a police officer was given the right to obtain telecommunications identification information and the right to interception of telecommunications, cases have emerged in which the police have failed to respect the limits and conditions laid down by law. And for intelligence to remain within the legal limits, it is also very important to monitor it. Finally, Mr President, a word on this urgency. It is quite right that a number of colleagues have said that there must be a special reason for the urgency, but I believe that many also ask that if there is agreement on the amendment of the Constitution itself, is there any particular reason why the matter should not be declared urgent? It is also justified to criticise the government for the fact that, although this matter in itself has long been described as an urgent matter, in practice it has for quite a long time been left behind in the process of social reform. And with regard to whether this is a precedent or not, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its report stresses that it is not a precedent. In practice, however, we have no way of preventing this from being referred to as a precedent in the future. On the other hand, if the intelligence law were to be enacted in the order in which the constitution was to be laid down, it would also be treated as a precedent. So it is basically a question of trust, and I really hope and stress that the government will not betray confidence in this matter but respect the representative. The work of the parliamentary working group led by Mr Töll. Last but not least, I would like to highlight the point made by Mr Biaudet about the budget of the Intelligence Commissioner. It is not enough for an intelligence officer to have the authority of law, he must also have the funds to carry out his activities in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u72	Madam President! There have been many speeches here to thank the key people involved in the drafting of legislation, and I too would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Lapintie, and the entire Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for the fact that this report was able to be produced unanimously and is very, very well and expertly prepared. Then I would also like to thank Mr Töll, on my part and as a member of the parliamentary group, who is very much credited with the fact that, with such a great consensus, we are now dealing with this issue. I hope that the same spirit will then continue to exist in dealing with these actual intelligence laws, both the Military and the Civil Intelligence Act and also this Supervisory Act. I think that this parliamentary working party is indeed still needed. Of course, even if the actual work is done in the committees, I would see that this representative The parliamentary working group led by Mr Töll is now very important because it is important to respect Parliament's broad will also when dealing with these contents. I would also like to mention, Madam President, from the parliamentary working group, that Mr Plant, who is not here with us today, is an expert on these issues, and I think that he did have a very important role and contribution when the parliamentary working party went through these laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u73	Madam President! As we have heard many times in this debate, changing the Constitution is no small thing, and this time it is not. Now the amendment to Article 10 of the Constitution has been carefully and long prepared. This preparatory work has been carried out on a parliamentary basis and I attach great importance to this work. The world around us has changed over the last five years, one can say that during this parliamentary term, very quickly. The need for its own intelligence and, above all, for legislation in this country to be brought to the attention of other European countries is absolutely essential. We must react to the changes that are taking place around us. There is nothing we can do about this change, but we need to adapt to it. Looking at this world around us, this need is indeed crying out. At the moment, we are based on information from other countries in matters of intelligence, and this cannot be the case for an independent state. We need our own intelligence and, above all, the stability of the laws and procedures established for this — and then, of course, control of this activity. Since we are now moving forward in a well thought-out, good way, all these goals are being fulfilled. There is a huge amount of information going through us in various information networks in this country — inside, land and land — and all the intelligence that is going through is currently carried out only by operators from foreign countries, not by Finns. Now that this law has been enacted, I hope that in an urgent procedure, such as a representative, In his speech Mr Tölli put forward, and then the Finnish authorities too have a legitimate right to go out and monitor these information networks. As has been said in many of these speeches, and just as the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also states, there will of course be no mass control at all, but all controls, clearly targeted, limited and controlled. We are setting up a Committee on Intelligence in Parliament and then, of course, an Enquiry Commissioner who acts as an independent authority and supervises this intelligence activity in general. It is quite clear that such matters are very sensitive and there are also things that are strictly for the public authorities to know, but that is also being monitored, of course, and there is no such blind point as this law would create, but the amendment of Article 10 of the Constitution and the intelligence laws are a package that will safeguard both the fundamental rights of citizens and then, of course, create intelligence conditions in this country that can guarantee the security of citizens for years to come. There have also been speeches in this debate that there is no need for this declaration of urgency. I am a little surprised at the reasons for this, but there is a complete consensus in this Chamber on the content of this law. I have not heard a single speaker say that the content of this law is wrong. If we were to vote for the amendment of the Constitution beyond the elections to rest, then the next Parliament would then have to reject or approve the same package for its million. There is no room for change. Therefore, with regard to this approval, which is now being carried out and which I hope will be done in an urgent procedure, as Mr Tölli has proposed, and as Mr Kari has rightly supported and also made very clear in his speech, I think that this is a rather strange situation. What added value would it have to lay there for a couple of years and then nothing could be done about it? I wonder about those arguments. However, what is important in this matter is that this constitutional amendment should be dealt with quickly and that the intelligence laws should enter into force quickly, because there is a very urgent need for this again at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u74	Madam President! As has been said in several speeches, the Constitution must not be amended on the basis of skewed criteria. That is why our Constitution sets out that as a general rule, as the Constitutional Committee in its own report still underscores, constitutional changes must continue to be made by two different parliaments. However, our Constitution feels the possibility that, if five-sixths of Parliament considers it necessary to declare the amendment to the Constitution subject to urgent procedure, it is possible. When some Members here have expressed concern that this is not just going to become a new general rule, of course it is not. In itself, the fact that a majority of five-sixths is needed underlines the exceptional nature of this procedure. This requires a considerable degree of political consensus. And in this case, I believe that such an agreement has been very well achieved through careful parliamentary cooperation and the search for compromise. As far as the work of the Constitutional Committee is concerned, I should like to add my thanks to the excellent work of its chairman, Annika Lapintie, for example. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has worked carefully to ensure that sensitive issues relating to the secret of a human rights and confidential message have been confirmed and has succeeded in producing a unanimous report stating that there are no obstacles to the declaration of urgency in relation to the amendment of the Constitution. In what circumstances, then, is it appropriate to use such an exceptional emergency procedure? I would be surprised if national security and a strong national interest were not such a thing. As we have seen quite broadly, our security environment has changed significantly and neither our legislation nor our constitution has managed to keep up with this change. For this reason, we are not rushing to make this change, but we are, in fact, significantly behind the legislative needs that we have actually had for years. For years, changes in intelligence legislation have also been dealt with in the parliamentary group, which Mr Tölli has led with merit. This group has achieved a very broad consensus on what is evident in this House too, that laws of this kind are needed and that the necessary constitutional amendment to them will also be introduced in one way or another, and it is also widely seen that it is explicitly in an urgent order to be adopted. At the moment, as Mr Salolainen said, we are living in a legal situation in which we are more or less dependent on the goodwill of foreign intelligence services. Of course, this is not a sustainable situation. It is high time we brought our own legislation into line with the needs of the changed international policy environment and the intelligence environment. For this reason, I very much welcome the fact that this amendment to the Constitution should be adopted in an urgent fashion. It should be borne in mind that if this constitutional change remains over the elections, the next Parliament will either have to accept it or reject it. So it is no longer possible to make a substantive change. It should also be borne in mind that, even if the constitutional amendment remains to rest, the substantive laws themselves will not rest, but will lapse at the end of the parliamentary term, and the next government should then re-issue these substantive intelligence laws separately, which would also significantly delay the process. However, it must be noted that after the elections, the next government negotiations will not necessarily be a success story and will soon be moved to the autumn of 2019. And as we know, politics can always happen. Against this background, I do not consider the time-out which would be achieved by adopting these already late laws if the House were to be able to support this urgent order of regulation in tomorrow's vote, as I hope the necessary majority of five-sixths will be found in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u75	Värderade fru talman! Säkerhetsläget i vår näromgivning har förändrat och det finns ett klart behov också ruus som den raus salen enhälligt har constatterat, att vi behöver förändra och uppdatera våra spaningslagar. Jag tänker ändå inte gå in på innehållet i spaningslagarna. Ettersom vi i dag doskuterar i vilken ordning den rai grundlagsändringen ska stadgas så tänker jag uppehålla mig vid det. De rau spaningslagarna förutsätter alltså en ändring av grundlagens 10 §, och effecter att ha dels tagit del av sakkunnighörandena i försvarsutskottet och nu sensat av grundlagsutskottets betankande så har jag den uppfattningen att den ändringen ska skötas i brådskande ordning. Det är ändå viktigt att poängtera att det ox naturligtvis inte är det nya normala. Det ska fortsättningsvis, som också grundlagsutskottet constatterat, vara en hög tröskel för att med fem sjättedelars mayoritet kunna stadga om en ändring i grundlagen. I och för sig är ju redan det att fem sjättedelar av ricksdage är för en ändring en verkligt hög tröskel. I vår grupp är en väldigt klar mayoritet för att det i det rauta unika fallet är motivesat att göra så som ledamot Tölli föreslår, alltså att ändra grundlagen i brådskande ordning. Den öjligheten finns, och min bedömning är att utmangarna i vår säkerhetsomgivning är så pass stora att jag personligen inte är beredd att ta den risk som det skulle reserve att inte stadga den rauhen i brådskande ordning. Men det är naturligtvis alltid ett väldigt noggrant övervägande som vi måste göra innan vi går in för ett sådant toi förfarande.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u76	Mr President! As has become apparent from today's debate, the temptation to link these actual intelligence laws together with the amendment to the Constitution is obviously great, but I would like to stress again that these must be seen as separate entities and we now have only this government proposal to amend the Constitution and this motion for urgent procedure in the Chamber. This constitutional amendment in itself is of fundamental importance because it will also allow for legislative projects other than these intelligence laws in the future, and because for the first time ever it will be possible to violate the secret of a confidential message in activities that do not involve crimes or suspicions of crime. For this reason too, there is indeed a very significant change. For the same reason, it should also be stressed that foreign powers and representatives of foreign powers do not enjoy the protection of the Finnish Constitution. This change is not, therefore, made because the authorities are able to control the activities of foreign powers in Finnish information networks, but because it is not technically possible to conduct telecommunications intelligence in such a way that it does not create situations where the protection of Finnish confidential messages is also being violated. Like many other speakers, I too think it is important for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to insist that this does not allow mass control. However, it should also be noted that the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs defines mass control as a comprehensive control of telecommunications. It is quite clear that there is not even a technical or resource capacity for such a thing in Finland, but in any case this will enable large-scale data intelligence to be conducted through the amendment of the Constitution. Many speakers have also asked that if you do not accept an emergency procedure, then so what. During this parliamentary term, it would be possible to move the intelligence laws forward in such a way as to be viewed from the perspective of the current Constitution. This means that it is not possible to regulate all the articles during this parliamentary term, but during the next parliamentary term, once this amendment to the Constitution has been adopted, it would be possible for the Government to make a supplementary proposal, which would then bring these missing articles in the field of telecommunications intelligence. In other words, it is entirely possible to do this if there is political will. It has then been asked that, if there is a consensus on the amendment of the Constitution, why not use an urgent procedure: because none of us can know what the composition of the future Parliament is. The idea of the normal order of amendment of this Constitution is that citizens themselves will be able to influence the situation in which changes are being made to their fundamental rights through parliamentary elections, but we are still in a fortunate situation where there is very little time for parliamentary elections. In other words, we will continue to regard this normal order of adjustment as the right way forward here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u77	Mr President! It is clear that the country's constitution should not be changed lightly. It is equally clear that the authorities must have the opportunity and means to ensure national security in the current and future context. Chairman of the parliamentary working group Mr Tölli explained very carefully the need for change, the content and why changes should be made in an emergency order. Mr Töll's speech was well supplemented and expanded by Mr Kari, including why it is necessary to amend the Constitution in an urgent constitutional order. I would like to thank the members of the parliamentary working group for their good work and constructive work, and I particularly agree with many of the members of the group who have been consulted here today. Thank you, Mr Töll, for the responsible and constructive work he has done, the heavy speeches which are easy to agree with and which are easy to support. I very much hope that, in the forthcoming vote, the demand for urgency will be met and the amended legislation will be put into effect as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u78	Mr President! Finland has a good constitution. It strongly protects the realisation of fundamental human rights and human rights and safeguards the rule of law in Finland. From that point of view, I myself have been very critical when it came to this process in order to go into Finland and make the necessary constitutional changes that would significantly change this principle. Ten years ago, there was a dispute in Europe over the Swedish FRA law, and many countries have clearly given security authorities such intelligence powers that have been too extensive and have been misused. But with regard to these concerns, which I have had at the beginning of this process as to whether or not the Constitution can be amended at all and whether it can be used to regulate intelligence laws, I must say that all concerns have been narrowed down and answered along the way, so that Mrs Jyrki plant, who has been on behalf of the Greens in this very parliamentary group, has said that they have become well-considered. In other words, this has been a good process in that we, who have wanted to emphasise the protection of people's privacy, have been given the restrictions both on this constitutional change and on the preparation of the intelligence law. Once European court practice has progressed in such a way that the EU has become strict court interpretations that even on the basis of such an unlimited mass control cannot be carried out without a clear, targeted suspicion, this change of law has, through it, gone in a better direction. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its own report, clearly restricts how the constitutional amendment clause can be interpreted. It stresses that data mining is a task for the safety authorities. The restriction would only apply to the provision of information on activities which, by their nature, could constitute a serious threat to national security. It also restricts all-inclusive controls. Therefore, all future laws, including these new intelligence laws, will be assessed in the very strict framework of the criteria, and as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I will ensure that those laws, too, pass the basic and human rights controls that we can be proud of in international comparisons. In a European comparison, this is clearly a process from which the future intelligence law restricts disproportionate powers and sets up a supervisor. In that sense, the situation will improve in Finland as we do not, for example, have extensive supervision by the protection police at the moment, and this will now be corrected. In other words, this process has also committed us, who are very keen to defend human rights, and therefore, since this constitutional amendment is to be adopted, it will also facilitate this debate on urgency and place it within the framework of the threat scenarios of the intelligence law and have then been evaluated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u79	Mr President! Earlier, one speech here said that this legislation does not apply to Finns. Well, if we're talking about changing the constitution, it's about the Finns. If we talk about the law of intelligence, it applies to Finnish citizens and citizens of the rest of the country. It must also apply to Finns. If you remember these school shootings, they were, unfortunately, all about Finnish activities. The constitutional and constitutional changes must take time, political pressure and, above all, political instability. So must the Constitutional Committee. When reference was made to the past decades, it is also worth remembering the black moment of democracy when the extremists invaded the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and took the left-wing MPs who had been elected. One of the kidnappers at this time of violence in the Regent House, where the parliament met, appeared to be looking for a badge for the Central Police. So it does remind you of the role the protection police can play in the parliament. It may come in as an expert role, but that's it. The previous constitution, in its basic form, lasted almost a hundred years, and this time span must be decades ahead when considering what changes will be made. There is still no basis for this delay in the timetable, for the fact that there is talk of a two-year delay. When I referred earlier to the political pressure being raised, both through political parties, the official machinery and the media, I referred to this timing of Airisto’s giant operation. I did not deny the need, but I referred to the timing that it did have one timing with this Constitution and the timetable for intelligence laws here in Parliament. There are these examples of political pressure to accept intelligence laws anyway. I remember the Osuusbank's anti-service attack, of which one of Finland's leading experts immediately said that it was a state-owned operator, and the air was also clear. Then later it became clear that it was two young boys in Helsinki who were behind this anti-service attack. Among other things, Minister of Defence Niinistö has unwarrantedly threatened that small green men can occupy Åland. Of course, there is no basis for such threats.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u80	Mr President! I asked for a reply after my esteemed representative, Mr Salolainen, who, in a way, drew one detail into this debate, arguing that we must hurry now. It was that corporate espionage became part of this. I was very surprised how two things could be connected so different. Politics and talking about politics, of course, because of their own goals is important, and it is good to justify them, but just as private privacy also has the same level of privacy for companies. They themselves secure their own systems. Business espionage is not about being managed in some way via the network, but it is directly linked to the company, and patents are not protected in such a way as to prevent the breaking of patents through electronic intelligence. It is directed at the undertaking concerned, it is a very physical, present source of information. It has nothing to do with this legislation that we are now in the process of speeding up and amending the Constitution. We have to be brave enough to separate these two things now. It should not be so flexible that dance is done on both sides of the floor that these two things are mixed up. Of course, I am a little sorry that we are consistently trying to mislead this debate to the side that is not being discussed this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u81	Mr President! This constitutional amendment to the Intelligence Act has been prepared carefully and with great precision. The development of technology and the course of world events have made it clear that Finnish intelligence legislation must also be brought up to today's requirements. The legislative proposals have been worked on for a long time and have a broad parliamentary understanding of their content. I would therefore stress that there is no real disagreement about the need and content of the law. Recently, the debate has revolved more around whether there is a hurry or not. My view is that we're in a hurry, and we've been in a hurry for many years. A rapid solution to the whole question of intelligence law is needed. It is important that this constitutional amendment, which is now being decided in particular, should be made quickly. This proposal to amend the Constitution is justified and I hope that Parliament will assume its responsibility for the security of the country and its citizens and will adopt this amendment in an accelerated procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u82	Mr President! It should be noted, however, that there is agreement in this Chamber that the external security picture has changed significantly and not necessarily for the better. When you read the magazines, you will notice that in central Eastern Europe, for example, military forces and camps, clubs, such as camps, are beginning to form in many countries, which are clearly different from the country’s official domestic or foreign policy line. And when we do not know what is behind these and who is directing them and what is the purpose, then it is clear that we too must quickly strive to react in a way that safeguards the integrity of the state and our internal and external security, which today are more and more one and the same thing. I read this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I think it was very carefully done, and at least I did not get the point of view that this urgency was not weighed in such a way that it was once and for all one-off and it could never be repeated easily.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u83	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is very commendable and provides a good basis for further work. The main demands of the Greens in relation to this further work are in the following direction: We, like many others, hope that the whole work of the protection police will be brought under parliamentary control. In addition, judicial control is central to the protection of citizens' rights of justice, and it is therefore essential for the fairness of decision-making that the intelligence officer also has the right to speak in court. In addition, intelligence authorisation should also have the right to appeal and complaint in decisions relating to intelligence. The intelligence authority, the intelligence officer, must also have sufficient rights and resources to carry out his duties, so we must ensure that the intelligence officer is genuinely able to influence and does not lose his workload. When intelligence services exchange information internationally, the exchange of information must be based on human rights. This will in future limit certain countries from our exchange of information partnership. This is something that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already drawn attention to. And in general, if we start from the fact that our security landscape has changed very widely in recent years — it has changed in international politics, it has changed partly within Finland’s borders, it has changed globally in this situation, and even when technology development and change are involved — it is justified that solids and good intelligence laws are created in Finland. The Finnish intelligence laws, which are now being presented to this country, which hopefully will move forward more quickly in committee, when the amendment to the Constitution has been dealt with, will be already, no doubt, the most stringent in the Western countries. And what is most important in the preparation of this law: we have made a good parliamentary voice in it and we have found a broad consensus that, for example, the security of people's daily lives, data protection, this law, in no way endangers data protection. Also when it comes to industry, for example, it is good to note that many companies in the information security sector, for example, want this sort of regulation because it clarifies their operating environment. At the moment, it is a very chaotic environment in many places.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u84	Mr President! There's been a good conversation here. In my speech, I have already raised the issues that weigh on my mind. But I would like to come back to what emerged from this debate in the Chamber. In other words, someone mentioned here the safe agreement and whether agreements have been reached to bring this matter forward as a matter of urgency. I, too, have these thoughts in mind when I am an ordinary Member of Parliament, and I wonder whether, for example, when the war has now stopped completely, does it have a context, that the war is not drawn out, and now this other urgent matter is being imported, that is, whether there have been any sort of agreements there, that if one of them is moving forward, the other is moving forward, that is to say, it is being traded. That is very familiar in this policy, and each one of us is going to have it at some point then...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u85	Mr President! I am sure that we all in this Chamber understand the concerns of the citizens, but I could equally say that it is our duty and, in my view, also our duty to try to eliminate them with proper knowledge by telling us about this process of drafting the law, its various stages truthfully sticking to the matter and the truth, and if there are any of those places of doubt, then let us talk about them in a proper manner. Personally, I don't care much about this kind of thing, can you say, threats, image creation, when it comes to some safe agreements and others? I do not think that this is particularly appropriate either, because each parliamentary group has had a representative in this parliamentary monitoring/coordination group chaired by Mr Töll, where matters have been dealt with in good parliamentary cooperation. I hope that this will continue as a proper debate. I have also noticed that there has also been a desire to approach this issue a little bit from this kind of government—oppositional arrangement, but in these security matters it is neither fair nor credible. Security issues will be made a common concrete base over the parliamentary term, on which the security of everyday life can be built through the actions of many authorities and citizens themselves. I would like to remind you of a few more points. The Constitution has not been changed by easy processes. In 20 years, the Constitution has been amended only three times, and when the parties here in Parliament agree on this big picture too, I would like to ask a little question about whether the parties are going to change their position if, for example, this order of business did not go as a matter of urgency. I don't think so. I would also like to remind you that if we do not rush this legislation now, we will not just lose the time involved in the legislative process, but will lose on top of it the time it takes to generate this performance and to make it stand up by the safety authorities. The time should also be linked to the time lost by any delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u86	Mr President! For my part, I will respond to some of the speeches that have been made during the debate. Among other things, Mr Meri wanted to comment on or refute my view that this is not a precedent for the procedure for amending the Constitution in one of my speeches. So of course this is a ‘preliminary case’in the sense that,when the Constitutional Law is amended,the various legislative proposals on this matter will be mirrored in certain ways I meant, and I said, that this is no precedent for the fact that the Constitutional Committee or Parliament would now send a message to the world that it is easy in Finland to rush the amendment of the Constitution and find a majority of five-sixths, because whenever this urgent order is to be used, there are some rather strict framework conditions which are reflected in the report of the Constitutional Committee. Secondly, I would like to say mainly to Mr Ville Niinistö, who said that ‘we, who are defending human rights, are all here to defend human rights, because spirits and life are time important human rights,and this legislation aims to protect my country. Then Mrs Juvonen has been concerned about whether she is in a hurry after all, when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is in a hurry to come to the debate. There is a Vice-President of the Constitutional Committee and there are actual members here, but I think it can be said at such a general level that every Member of Parliament knows that a number of things are being carried forward in parallel in the various committees, including the Constitutional Committee. Last point: Mr Juvonen has at least been concerned about some safe agreements in this regard. I understand that this debate has been very openly held between the various parliamentary groups, and I see the situation so that, when there is a very broad consensus on this change and also almost as widely on this declaration of urgency, the same debates, the same tables have agreed that, even when dealing with these actual intelligence laws, a broad consensus is being sought in this House. As far as I am aware, no secrets or secret safe agreements have anything to do with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u87	Mr President! One last speech must be made as a member of this parliamentary monitoring group when it refers to the protection and role of ordinary citizens following these legislative changes. They are actually directly related to the draft amendment to the Constitution that is now under discussion. Targeting, when it comes to intelligence on information networks, does not mean that it is targeted at the network communications of a particular individual, but that it is targeted at a certain part of the data traffic. This should be borne in mind. This is also the reason why it is not possible to do telecommunications intelligence in such a way that there is full certainty that the protection of the privacy of any ordinary citizen will not be violated, and that is why the government has introduced an amendment to this Constitution which, indeed, introduces a new restriction on the protection of privacy and allows it to be violated when information is collected about activities that seriously threaten national security. Once again, in relation to this urgent procedure and the parliamentary elections: I would like to stress once again that it is also a question of the fact that the sitting parliament cannot know who is here to represent the citizens after the next parliamentary elections, and this has been the idea of the ordinary constitutional order that citizens will also be able to influence when the Constitution is amended and restrictions and changes are made to the fundamental rights of people. There is now a departure from this, which is, of course, unfortunate from the point of view of democracy. I find it regrettable that it is now being done in a situation where the parliamentary elections are so close that this time-saving, which is achieved through an urgent procedure, is rather limited. Finally, when we have discussed what kind of precedent this will be, perhaps I would prefer to talk about a political precedent myself. I believe that a legal expert who has spoken to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has summed it up very well in this way: the lighter the criteria and the shorter the time for the adoption of the urgent procedure for amending the Constitution, the more sensitive and lesser the reasons for this exceptional procedure will continue to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u88	Mr President! Of course, I strongly disagree with this time savings, because when a new Parliament is elected next spring and if it is going to deal with this, it will in any case take a lot of time. The new Members of Parliament and the re-elected committees must, of course, be very familiar with all things, but also with this, and it will take time, and until the new government is able to start, to submit proposals and so on, it will be easy for it to do for a year and a half, two years will be able to move forward. That is why, at least, I myself want to take this urgency forward now, precisely so that these decisions can be taken during this Parliament. I appreciate that statement by Mr Mika Kari. In the Committee on Defence, we have been able to work well together. When you read both the opinions of the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs in relation to this urgency and the description of the environment in which they operate, you can already see strongly the reasons for this urgency, which is why it is so strongly advocated here. Terrorists have unfortunately happened in Europe, as well as in Finland, and these are, of course, such things that must be able to be predisposed, that things like this would never happen again in Finland or anywhere else within Europe. And as far as the defence of the country is concerned, as far as the impact of these external security factors is concerned, the advance notice period has changed. It doesn't really exist anymore. There are no more traditional declarations of war in which the countries, with their readiness or with their mobilization, will begin to raise their troops. Of course, there's a lot of work to be done. The Defence Forces have increasingly changed from a training organisation to a preparedness organisation, but in order to react, we also need to have the capacity to do so, and it requires that we have these intelligence laws in place, which requires that this constitutional amendment be made now and urgently.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u89	Mr President! Finland’s intelligence is needed to be up-to-date against threats. Military and civilian intelligence laws and the laws governing their supervision can be taken forward if the position on speeding up constitutional change prevails tomorrow. It has been particularly important in this regard that this issue itself should be supported, regardless of party boundaries. This is also an important message for Finns that we are concerned about the safety of Finns. Indeed, all parties are in favour of the need for intelligence laws. The only thing that goes on is the urgency of this constitutional amendment to the law. Perhaps I am actually wondering myself about this opposition from the Left Alliance, because there is agreement on the content of the law. The transfer of the case beyond the next elections can no longer affect the content of the legislative amendment, but can only accept or reject the law. Therefore, I do not think it is very logical to oppose urgency. Intelligence laws have been considered necessary already during the previous government. Finland has lived for a long time because of a change in the security environment in a situation where different threats and threats are identified, both within the country and without ever entering the country. We have been and are now dependent on intelligence from other countries, through which we have received some information about threats to Finland and espionage against authorities, individuals or businesses, for example. Our own authorities also need tools to better understand what is happening in our security environment. Both in the Committee on Defence and in other committees, it has been said that the Intelligence Act is not a question of mass control and that the inquiry is also subject to comprehensive parliamentary control. In order to protect our citizens, we also need the possibility of modern military and civilian intelligence in the future to combat various threats.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u90	Mr President! I have listened very carefully to the speeches made by the representatives on the Intelligence Act and also to Mr Töll's arguments on the legal framework. The military threat and the threat of terrorism in our country are those issues that have enormous weight. They should be weighed very carefully when dealing with the amendment of the Constitution. Is it urgent then? Well, I'm sure we won't be able to waste much time thinking about this. This is particularly serious. The security situation is no longer the same as it was ten years ago. As Mr Meri said, we have had a lot of discussions in the Finnish Parliament Group on this subject. It has many points, including this individual's legal security, privacy in accessing information. It is an important and very important issue, it is not a trifling thing, but, of course, when it comes to security in our country, it takes precedence over everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u91	Mr President! Last February, when the Parliament started working on this package of intelligence laws, in my group speech, I pointed out the long-term objective of the Social Democrats that we too have the supervision of the security authorities, and this will ensure that, when the authorities are given more powers, the exercise of these powers will also be monitored. Even then, in February, not everyone could agree with this view, but later, when the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman came to this same view, it was easy to work together in the parliamentary monitoring/control group to seek consensus and a common view for the world that the powers of our security authorities are also being monitored and, in particular, on the part of Parliament. I have taken a few speeches and thanked the operators. However, one operator has been forgotten, has not been thanked, and I would like to do so in this context. The Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Lapintie and his committee have done an important job for this republic, and the report by the Constitutional Committee contains a very detailed description of the content contained in this report, including the role of the Constitution in the Finnish legislative system. I am very impressed by the way in which this security-oriented issue, the intelligence law and, in this case, the constitution, has been discussed in this House. There are different opinions, but the capacity that this Parliament has demonstrated once again in the way in which things can be discussed is also worthy of praise and value. And there is also one aspect of this parliamentary work: it is not just the power of the parties that is being exercised in this Parliament, but the power of our parliamentarians, and the fact that Parliament is exercising Parliament's power is perhaps the highest level of this exercise of power.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u93	Mr President! Finally, I wanted to take the floor because there is now a clear misunderstanding on a wide range of issues. Firstly, of course, it is the starting point of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this declaration of urgency does not become the main rule, as we say in the final conclusions, and that is why we do not recommend this declaration of urgency, but that it is possible. The second is, of course, that, while it is always being said here that it is possible, in accordance with the current legislation, to intervene in military intelligence authorities in a foreign country and have no defence mechanisms such as those of the citizens, it must now be said that we already have a large number of intelligence organisations in the country which are unrecognized and which cannot be assessed as recognised military organisations in a foreign state. Which means there's a need for urgency, as I'm sure it was before.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u94	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. An hour and a half is reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the eighth item. In this context, the 19th item of the agenda will also be allowed to be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u95	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This new Animal Welfare Act, now under discussion, would replace the existing Animal Welfare Act. The proposal would reform animal welfare legislation to reflect the scientific information currently available on animal welfare and, at the same time, will continue to safeguard the operating conditions of Finnish animal production. At the same time, it continues to strengthen our current good animal welfare situation here in Finland. The proposal is based on good treatment and respect for animals. Animals shall not be subjected to unnecessary pain or suffering and their welfare shall not be unduly endangered. Animal husbandry should ensure that animals are able to fulfil their main behavioural needs. The continued setting of the animal and the restriction of conversion at the permanent establishment would be prohibited, subject to certain exceptions. Mammals and birds should be able to drink water continuously in their permanent establishment. Certain derogations from the requirement for continuous water supply would be provided for by law and regulation. Pain relief should be used in the future in connection with painful procedures in animals. The requirement for pain relief could only be waived if the measure only causes mild or temporary pain or is an emergency. The current regulation on zootechnical matters would be clarified. The provisions are also to be specified at the level of the regulation. The law would also provide for species of mammals and birds that can be considered as farmed animals. The law would also include a listing of the species of animals allowed in circuses and travelling animal exhibitions. The species of animals authorised as social and recreational animals would be regulated by a Regulation. This also includes the idea of mandatory identification and registration of dogs in animal identification legislation. The report on the establishment of the identification register will now be completed during the autumn. It is possible to incorporate the mandatory registration of cats into the legislation at a later stage. President! The regulation on the slaughter of animals would also be amended so that the animal should always be stunned before the blood drop begins. Certain authorisations for the pursuit of an activity would be waived and overlapping reporting obligations would be reduced. In the case of activities requiring notification, notification should be made only to the extent that it is not already done on the basis of other legislation. The regulation of animal welfare controls would also be clarified and increased in order to improve the effectiveness of controls. In particular, the means for the control authorities to address animal welfare deficiencies would be increased and clarified. The budgetary costs of the proposal would be borne within the approved framework of central government finances and the state budget. In order to avoid excessive costs for animal keepers, sufficient transitional periods have been included in the proposal for new requirements. In addition, it is proposed to introduce a number of deviations for both production and economic reasons. The proposal does not entail any significant costs for households. This proposal is intended to enter into force from the beginning of 2021 at the same time as the regional reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u96	Mr President! This important draft law has long been awaited, and thank the Minister for finally allowing us to discuss it. Research on the intelligence and welfare of animals and the suffering suffered by farm animals has increased enormously over the past twenty years. At the same time, the attitudes of Finns have also changed. Consumers are increasingly interested in the ethics of food and animal welfare. According to the EU barometer, 90% want better treatment of farmed animals. That is why it is a little sad that, when the law is finally renewed, the bill does not take sufficient account of this research or the changing atmosphere. Animal welfare is still seen mainly as an expense item and not as an absolute value. For this reason, it seems a little strange to call this proposal a law on animal welfare. The poor ability to move causes unnecessary suffering to animals and prevents species-like behaviour. Improvements need to be made to the most restrictive aspects of animal movement. One of the biggest problems is the sows’ stress - causing farrowing cages, which are still not banned. Cattle are not guaranteed access to pastures throughout the year, nor are cows' ass-runnings in neighbouring countries still banned. Not all animals are still given the right to drink water if they wish, even though this has been widely demanded by animal welfare experts. Nor does the law interfere with fur farming or prohibit caged chickens. This law does not yet guarantee animal welfare, and people also demand better. The importance of this law was also well reflected in the fact that almost 400 opinions were issued in this draft law, and that is a large number. Most of these statements called for clear improvements in animal welfare, but too many concerns of citizens and experts were ignored here. It is a good thing that some of the concerns raised during the consultation were corrected and, for example, the footing of cattle was increased, the processing of cattle is being dealt with more rigorously and the continued supply of water is being secured for many mammals and birds — but not for all. The government's proposal contains many good principles, but they are watered down with numerous exceptions. Mr President! This law was hoped to be the best animal welfare law in the world, a law that would guarantee every single Finn that the animals are better off here than anywhere else in the world. Unfortunately, that is not what this government proposal does. That is why we Greens have drafted our own proposal for a law on animal welfare. We call for concrete improvements in animal conditions. We propose that the absolute value of animals be recognised and recorded in the law. We are suggesting that asparagus be banned and that cattle be allowed to walk outside all year round. We are proposing to ban the shearing cages and to give up the rearing of chickens at last. We are proposing to stop fur farming, because fur farming is the cruelst form of animal production. [Department : Let's go to China! ] Mr President! Animals should be guaranteed the opportunity to carry out their species-specific behaviour: to move, to rest, to form social relations, to explore the environment, to eat and to play. That is why the law should not allow animals to be prevented from moving. The government's proposal allows cows to remain attached, as well as pigs to be kept in farrowing cages, and even pregnant cages are not banned until a transitional period of 15 years. This transitional period is so long that before its end we will probably be able to make a new animal welfare law in this house. The breeding and killing of animals for the sole purpose of producing furs is increasingly considered to be unethical, and one fashion house after another is currently abandoning furs. Animals are not doing well in fur production, as animals suffer from lack of physical activity and lack of stimulation. In cages fur animals cannot carry out their species-like behavior. In terms of animal welfare, the only option is to stop fur production in Finland during a transitional period. One of the key cornerstones of animal welfare is to avoid harm to animals, particularly pain and suffering. The government's proposal requires that pain relief be used in painful procedures. However, this does not guarantee adequate pain treatment for animals. Therefore, animals must be guaranteed adequate pain removal and post-pain relief during the procedure. In addition, the current government terminated the short post of Animal Protection Ombudsman established in 2013. Now, in the context of this new law, we have a good opportunity to re-establish this task, because animals do not have the opportunity to defend their own rights and we must ensure that animals also have their own advocate in the state administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u97	This may give rise to a small debut. I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u98	Mr President! When he listened to Mr Kari’s speech, it seemed that the fox was sour, saying of the berry berries. The Greens have been sitting in the government many times and have not brought about reform, even though the previous Animal Protection Act was adopted in 95. It is important to give our current minister a strong recognition of the fact that animal pain is reduced, animal freedom is increasing, the possibility of species-like behaviour is improved, ban lists of wild animals that are not part of the circus and pets, control is improved, the status of pets is improved, registrations are stopped, the production of puppies is stopped, illegal animal imports are under control. Many, many good things. And here Mr Kari was able to list only those things that were hoped for by various organisations that wanted to stop, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u99	Mr President! The law is long awaited, and thank you for the good things in it, but I too share the disappointment that the level of ambition of the law is not as it should be today. Too much of this goes through the fact that animals are still seen as just means of production, not so much of the animal’s absolute value. It is very important, Minister, to remember that the climate of attitude is changing rapidly and has changed over the years. For example, this petition signed by over 100,000 in favour of strict animal welfare law. I insist, President, and I very much hope that the committee will now look particularly closely at this criticism of the citizens and animal welfare organisations. There are a lot of shortcomings here, there are things that are not yet fixed, and they are very much the case that it is Parliament's momentum to take action and correct them. President! For my part, I hope that the work that is being done in committee will be taken seriously and that these problems, which have been demonstrated by animal welfare organisations among others, will be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u100	Mr President! As the Minister said here, the compulsory identification and registration of dogs is to be provided for under the Animal Identification Scheme Act, and that is a good thing. But I'm worried about these outlaws in the animal world, or cats. In the case of cats, it is stated that only later can this registration be included. However, if we look at the present time, we will continue to read about catboys or summer cats and others thrown out of cars, so I would like to see the equality of cats here also remembered and not left as such an opportunity, but to take into account the fact that cats are as important as dogs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u101	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and to the entire government. It is great that this reform was prepared under the leadership of the city centre. We have achieved a good set of laws and exactly what the Green Left has never done here before. The Greens in that speech take on such a role as a non-party: no, no, no, not for everything, not for ascension, not for fur farming [Satu Hassi’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u102	Mr President! I thought I would be very conciliatory, but Mrs Rantakangas did clean up the table in such a smooth way that it is no longer necessary to begin to praise the fact that there are good points in the matter, because there is such a long list of exceptions that they too must be dared to confess from it by Mr Kalmar. When animal welfare is at stake, then there are economic and productive reasons for the deviations. I would have liked this to have been the case now that everyone really has to have access to drinking water. I am pleased now with dogs and I would hope that this will also radiate into the whole kennel business, which includes puppy factories and dogs imported from abroad, so that this would also lead to a more humane promotion of the welfare of companion animals. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u103	Mr President! It is not enough to treat pets well. Farm animals must also be treated well. The central flaw in the government's proposal is that it contains far too long a list of exceptions to good animal welfare principles, precisely in the case of farmed animals. However, the vast majority of Finns support improving the treatment of farmed animals. According to the Eurobarometer, it is the attitudes of Finns from all European countries that have changed most dramatically over the last 10 years in such a way that people demand better treatment of animals. It would also be in the interests of producers if the law required Finnish producers to act in such a way that their treatment corresponds to modern scientific knowledge of what animal welfare requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u104	Mr President! I don't think these things are gonna get better if they're heated up. My own view is that human and animal welfare go hand in hand. It is true that if the nurse is well, the animals are well, and it is easier to take responsibility for the animal when their own affairs are in order. Unfortunately, with the law, we cannot regulate everything in this society or in human activity. But something here is good, of course. After all, this constant supply of water is such a basic requirement, and now it is correctly enshrined in the law. Of course, there are exceptions to fur farming and many other details, as this would lead to excesses. But what I personally think is important and what the Greens did not mention — Mr Arhinmäki will certainly mention it — is that, from the point of view of animal welfare, the most important thing is to maintain a 24/7 on-call system across the country so that people who do not have the ability to pay large sums are also able to deliver:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u105	Mr President! For my part, too, I would like to thank the Minister and the whole government for a good draft law which is now being discussed. In his own speech, Mr Kalmar listed some of the improvements and reforms that this proposal brings. It is neither intended nor necessary to repeat them again. Everyone can read them in that performance. Mr President! I would like to highlight the expense of the word used by Mrs Emma Karin in her speech: ‘The welfare of animals is considered to be anexpensive item. “ I myself wonder about the value of the animals to their owner so that, if we now think that the animal is seen as an expense, I claim that a healthy and well - being animal is much cheaper to its owner than an animal that is sick and needs veterinary services. Contrast entrepreneurs who keep animals, whatever business they do, and the tools must be in order,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u106	Mr President! In 2015, my heart was broken and certainly many other Finns were informed that there had been a great deal of serious neglect in small slaughterhouses in the slaughter of animals. I very much welcome it, and I thank you, Minister, for the fact that this law now takes account of the fact that there is also a precision to this slaughter and that the animal must have been struck first. Are you sure this is the case with all the slaughterhouses? This would be very important information. Since 2011, I have been asking a number of written questions about animal welfare. Natural animals are also close to my heart. So I ask you: how will we now ensure that these naturally occurring animals, if they are injured or there is a serious need for treatment, will be treated in the future? I'm going to ask you a few more questions about the Food Agency station. So here comes the slaughterhouses for camera surveillance, possibly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u107	Mr President! In Finland, animal welfare is at a high level. I would like us to agree on that in this Chamber, because it is a fact. We must strive for better, but I think that an extremely valuable thing would be that we really appreciate the things that are true. We are salmonella-free, the use of antibiotics is very limited compared to other EU countries, and in Finland, animals are only being treated for the need when antibiotics are given with feed elsewhere. Finnish pigs have pigtails and chickens have beaks, unlike many other EU countries. In other words, we have the strengths on which it is good to build, and this new animal welfare law will improve the situation significantly. The question of why time is now needed: because the Finnish agricultural industry is today in a very poor situation of profitability. As long as trade and trade do not bring a proper price to bear the costs of producers, care must be taken in the face of what is required.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u108	Mr President! I would first like to thank the government and Minister Leppää for a good bill. This has long been prepared, and this takes into account both the welfare of animals and the potential for further production. The law is an important step towards better animal welfare and guarantees that Finland will continue to be a pioneer at European level in the future. The bill confirms it. Representative Emma Karille: It may well be that this bill is precisely the best animal welfare law in the world for this very reason. We have seen a warning example in the neighbouring country of Sweden, where the so-called best animal welfare law in the world was introduced, which was so tense that production has moved abroad. Less than half of Swedish food is now produced in Sweden. Has it improved?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u109	Mr President! It's easy to continue after Mr. Nylund. I fully agree with his comments. I would say that this legislation on animal welfare is one of the most important provisions concerning all animal welfare, the responsibilities and responsibilities of the owner of the animal. In my opinion, this has gone in the right direction. But then to this general debate and atmosphere — politics is an image. Mr Hassi said that it is important to take good care not only of pets but also of farm animals. Of course. I don't know a single farmer or a fur hunter who wouldn't want to take good care of his animals. Do you feel this way, or do you just create the impression that farmers do not take care of their lives? Of course, there are those in every group of people who, for some reason, are unable to meet all the standards and criteria, but so is the case here in Parliament. We're here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u110	Mr President! From no point of view, it is probably not a question of suspecting in this Chamber, or more generally, that fur producers or livestock keepers, farmers, farmers, would like to treat animals badly. It is probably more a question of us people, all kinds of people having different ideas about what is the minimum level of care for the welfare of animals. The scientific fact of research and animal behavior is that the animal is fine when it is able to behave as well as possible in a manner typical of its species. Then the problems that have been identified in this bill relate in particular to the drastic restriction of the movement of animals and other natural behaviour. We have different views on this, not that people do not in general
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u111	Mr President! Indeed, there has been a major change in the attitudes of the citizens, in Finland, compared to the most important one in Europe, in the way in which they view animal welfare. 90% of citizens want better protection of farm animals. In my view, this change also relates to the public's awareness of climate change and the ability to take a position on the types of issues that have previously been more difficult, because information has increased, especially research data in this case. That is why I hope, now that this goes to committee, that two things in particular will be assessed there: one relating to the recording of the animal's absolute dignity in the law, and the other to the future of ascension and their possible change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u114	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Leppa and the government for the good drafting of the law. As has already been noted today in half an hour, there will be an extensive debate during the autumn. There will certainly be details in the committee, and there will also be a very worthy debate. I would therefore like to stress here that we are talking about a law on animal welfare, and I would remind you that this applies to both pets and farmed animals. Let us not always look at just where the raw material is produced in food, but at the law on animal welfare. That is why I must say that it is quite freezing to speak to the ears of a domestic producer such a speech that the Greens have just made here. There is really no appreciation for where this domestic food comes from today, the way in which animal welfare is cared for in today’s farms. There is even talk here of taking good care of pets and now legislation also brings welfare obligations to productive animals. Yes, this is incomprehensible talk. I hope that we will go to the right level and actually talk about animal welfare, both pets and farm animals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u115	Mr President! Minister Leppä, in your opening speech you said that this proposal will bring this law up to date with the scientific data of today. After wading through this long presentation, I do disagree with you. There are good improvements here, thanks to them, and there are very good principles here, but the list of exceptions is so long that this law no longer guarantees animal welfare. This will continue to allow the construction of asparagus and thus significantly restrict mobility, which is a fundamental condition for well-being. Still not all animals are guaranteed continuous access to water. Water is a lifeline. This is why I see that this does not correspond to research data and does not guarantee animal welfare. However, Minister, I would like to ask you a question about section 16. It provides for the use of pain relief for different measures and states that these are further specified in the Regulations. The explanatory statement reads as follows: in the case of castration of piglets, it is intended to require at least the administration of an anti-inflammatory drug. So can a pig be castrated without anesthesia? Casing is a surgical procedure. Could this be done without anesthesia?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u116	Congressman Modig, 1 minute 20 seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules of the game are the same for everyone. It should be appropriate to take a few more speeches, perhaps five or six, and then the Minister and Mrs Karilla will respond. — Next, Mr Koski, reply to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u117	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. It is commendable that agreement has been reached with operators in different sectors that Finnish food production can continue to be possible in Finland. Indeed, Finland is already the most progressive country in the world in terms of food quality requirements and animal welfare. This law, too, will in time be only a minimum. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, the most lasting and long-term improvements to animal welfare are made on the shelves of shops. The more the consumer favours domestic food, the more sustainable improvements can be made to animal welfare. As far as the starting point of the debate is concerned, I am challenging the Greens here that, if the starting point is a total ban on fur farming, it certainly does not lead the debate in any more fruitful direction. In particular, fur production is likely to have the most advanced own certification schemes in the sector, including:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u118	Mr President! I will then look more closely at the situation of the producers in my own speech. Parliament's Animal Protection Group and also animal welfare organisations have put forward a number of suggestions for improvement. Some of them are being implemented. Good! The Finns of Peru have put forward a very large number of legislative initiatives, and I have also personally asked about a dozen written questions during these years. Some of their subjects are also coming to fruition, thank you. The question to the Minister about how to deal with neglect in animal welfare. In view of the statement by a very large number of veterinary surgeons that the animal is already half-dead, almost dead, before it is able to deal with these animal-holding offences and offences, it is too late to intervene. Is there any improvement on this, control and resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u119	Mr President! This animal welfare law is good for animal welfare, consumers and food producers. The proposal strongly supports the competitive position of domestic livestock products and enables the profitability of responsible and ethically produced food production in the future. Among other things, this constant supply of water has been raised in this debate. It will be secured by this legislation, albeit partly through a transitional period, but it will also take into account the costs involved. I hope this will also take into account the fact that the species-specific behaviour and continuous water supply of large dogs in these blocks of flats will also be safeguarded. As far as fur production is concerned, its export revenues exceed EUR 400 million per year and it uses domestic raw materials which would otherwise be an environmental problem if they were not managed through fur production. There conditions have improved significantly in recent years through certification and others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u120	Mr President! I too would like to join in thanking you for this law. But a few speeches here have painted fairly dark clouds, and I would ask you to compare the situation in Finland with other countries. I understand, for example, that the use of antibiotics raised by Anttila proves that there are already animals in Finland and the situation that takes account of their well-being. Then, for example, if this fur production were stopped here, banned, I would argue that it would not stop, but would be produced in China and Russia. Could you compare the animal-friendliness of Finnish fur production, Chinese and Russian fur production?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u121	Mr President! Mr Eestilä is right in saying that animal welfare is also available 24/7, so that people can afford it and society must invest in it. It is also socially just, but it is not so much a matter of decision in this law, but it is important to bear that in mind when we are having a debate. The purpose of this law and the general requirements of the establishment and treatment are good. But in this proposal, as in today’s law, good intentions are watered down by exceptions and lower-level regulations. This is the big problem that principles, starting points, are good, but there are too many exceptions and watering downs. Perhaps this is most clearly illustrated by the fact that the reference to the absolute value of animals is only in the explanatory statement. It is not found at all in the passages, and when it is not in the law, then, in a way, this is the basis for part of it. In my actual speech, however, I will go into more detail on these points.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u122	Mr President! Indeed, thank you to the Minister for this law. What warms me in particular is that this is finally a law on animal welfare and that applies to all animals, including those pets. Here, too, there is a great deal to be said about the abuse of farm animals, but there are very many examples in public – when a snake escapes in Espoo, and puppy factory can be found at any time, and kittens, summer cats are left at the mercy of nature — that these animal abuse can be found in every sector. This law also addresses these pets, and I think it is important that this is a genuine welfare law for all animals, that is to say that these pets, and the dogs and cats that are there in apartment blocks for eight hours during the day, are also taken into account. I would ask the Minister: does this law also guarantee species-like behaviour and well-being for pets, i.e. for all pets?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a reply to the following representatives: Mr Olli-Sonika Parviainen, Mr Meri, Mr Taavitsainen and Mr Laiho. Then the floor was made by the Minister and by Mrs Karilla.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u124	Mr President! I am a little surprised at the debate, with all due respect, that you representatives of the agricultural background, in particular, are disapproving, as a moral question, the fact that it is not appropriate to put another aspect of the legislation. Surely we all respect domestic food production and want to strive to preserve it. Of course, you have first-hand experience of it, and it would be important to find dialogue on these issues as well. As far as fur farming is concerned, our model is such that we are about to start in a transitional period and, of course, in the light of the circumstances of the producers. These are never simple questions when it comes to people's livelihoods, which may have been for generations, and this is often the case in the agricultural sector in Finland. However, your view is that now that the so-called Animal Protection Act is being updated for the first time in 20 years, we would have liked to see some aspects raised by Mr Kari, for example, and that is why we are also trying to keep this message on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u125	Mr President! Of course, it would be good to have the absolute value of animals written in the legal text, but more importantly, I prefer the articles themselves. The long-awaited regulations have now come in to ban sexual contact with animals. Three years ago, I have taken this initiative and had some people attack me because I do not understand their trends, and I thank the government for this courage that this was brought. Ronkainen, the representative of the same basic Finns, has proposed a legal amendment to this halal slaughter that the animal should be stunned before the blood falls. I would have liked the Greens to highlight what is the minimum level and animal welfare, that, when these legislative initiatives were here to be signed, we would have received support. The Finns have brought these rather embarrassing subjects to the debate, and I have found that we have been the only group to talk about such things as animal sex and such things. Somehow it comes to mind that when you have to get names in a piece, put, friends, names in the initiatives then,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u126	Mr President! I hope I understood correctly that Minister Leppä intends to introduce a mandatory identification mark for dogs in the coming winter to eradicate this illegal dog trade and puppy production of dogs and the smuggling of these pets abroad, as well as the related animal welfare offences. This illegal pet trade, which is rampant in Finland and its growth, is currently worrying more and more citizens. In Europe, puppy production is the third largest form of crime since the illicit drug and arms trade. Often they are the same. They smuggle drugs across borders within dogs and horses, and animals are killed, and drugs end up in the street trade, so it is really good if the Minister is going to root this out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u127	One more reply, Mr Laiho, and then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u128	Mr President! This reform of the Animal Protection Act has long been awaited and contains significant improvements to the current situation. Thank you for that. In particular with regard to pain relief, there are significant improvements in the availability of water. What Mr Eestilä has pointed out, the veterinary system 24/7, would be important to make it cover around the clock. I would also like to highlight the other reasons behind the mistreatment of animals. Cooperation with the authorities is of paramount importance. I myself wondered, however, that this otherwise comprehensive package lacks this compulsory identification mark for dogs. We found out this was coming in the fall. It'd be really important, 'cause it's a puppy factory.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u129	Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u130	Mr President! Thank you very much for the good comments and speeches you have made. As has already been mentioned here, this is made up of a very large number of details that you have gone through here, and that is why we must look at the big picture that this new animal welfare law forms. It is quite clear that no law alone determines animal welfare, but that is where we humans are at the heart of it. This creates a frame for what we cannot accept, but in addition to this, we all have to look at ourselves in the mirror and a little friend in the way we treat our animals. It's obvious. That is the way it is, and this is the way it should be, of course. Nor do we want to create a situation in which we would have a welfare leak from this country. This was referred to by several representatives. If we have our own production here, such as our food production, our livestock-based food production, it is obvious that it will be brought here somewhere else, and we cannot possibly control what it is. There will then be an animal welfare leak, and that is something we cannot accept. That is why we must also have a balance between the fact that, in a sensible and profitable way, we can also produce livestock on the basis of this new law, and that is the starting point on which we have made every effort in this legislative proposal. The welfare situation of our animals is indeed good. We have the best animal disease situation in the world. We use the least medicine in the world. These two things already reflect our situation with regard to animal welfare. On top of that, as has been mentioned here, pigs have pigtails and chickens have beaks. It is self-evident to us, but this is not the case in world food production, and that is why it is important that we are able to take these good practices of ours to the world too to take and take care of our own activities. It is also obvious when these exceptions are defined, for example, in the supply of water — I am now reading directly here from the explanatory statement to everyone — which is the exception from the supply of continuous water. That becomes clear to everyone at once. In other words, these exceptions would apply to iglucal calves in outdoor areas. They're igluvas. In addition, derogations would be provided at the regulation level for weaned sled dogs in professional farms, weaned puppies born from furbacks in the same year or animals removed from breeding, but it is also said that, despite these exceptions, animals must be watered at least three times a day. So they won't be without water, but there are circumstances that we must also consider. Then, President, at the end of the day, how this control works. It is clear that we cannot accept any animal abuse. They need to be addressed, addressed quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u131	Congressman Kari, two minutes on site.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Personally, I hope that in no way would the image be created here that not every single representative in this Chamber would appreciate the Finnish food producers. It certainly does, and in my opening speech too, I said that Finnish producers often do much more than what is required of them. The question here is what minimum level we promise the Finns, so that people know that Finnish food is always ethically produced, because 90% of Finns expect better animal protection from us. There was talk of absolute value here earlier. We fully agree: of course animals have absolute value. Surely most Finns think that animals have absolute value. Surely the majority of producers are self-evident that animals have absolute value. The question is whether we believe that animals have absolute value, because that would probably require us to include it in this law, as the Greens are proposing. It was said here that the presentations of the Greens are similar to those of some organisations that, for example, want to ban pet keeping in Finland, but I would now like to see representatives genuinely familiar with the statements made on this law. For example, the Finnish Association of Veterinarians: it is not a union that wants to ban animals, but the very people who see its reality see the changes that are needed. They have said, for example, that the construction of new asparagus should be prohibited, they have found that farrowing cages should be banned during the transitional period, and they have also stated this: ‘According to the opinion of the Veterinary Association, the current form of fur farming is not acceptable under the new animal welfare law. “ They have also taken similar positions to those of the Greens on these issues of pain relief. So not to create this kind of image that the question would not be from experts, specifically animal welfare, animal health experts' opinions, but from some other. So you might want to read these statements and see what they really say.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u133	Mr President! I have to thank the Minister. This is a very good and worthy bill. The overall welfare of animals improves and species-specific behaviour is taken into account in this presentation. It's excellent. Freedom of movement is improving. I understand that there must be some kind of restriction. What is also very great is that this issue of water supply has been taken into account. But then we all know here that today the producers are very strict financially, and I think it is good in this proposal to have a transitional period. It would be unreasonable on a fast schedule to carry out all the reforms, and that would have required substantial investment, and surely the producers do not have the money and there is certainly no money available in this proposal either. But then, as a horseman of some kind, I still ask, when there are these animal races here, is it like a race of animals, in what way this affects the races, because this is a bit open to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u134	I admit — and I have just been a little late — that Mr Hakase has spoken in response to Mr Kari’s speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u135	Mr President! The Greens ’ Parviainen gave a constructive speech and actually took a new light from the Greens’ point of view as to how you want to raise these issues. That was a good speech, thank you to Mrs Parviainen. You stress, Mr Kari, now asparagus, farrowing cages. Of course, information has been studied on how a free sow, for example, behaves when she is farting, how a dairy cow in the yard behaves. Of course, there is information about these, and we all have it readable, no one disputes it. But the fact of how we go forward here: Do you really want to free that big sow from the starting point of its movement, the typical behaviour of the species? Do you notice at all the little piglets who are then in danger of life? It is also studied that their safety is not
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u136	Mr President! There are many things that improve animal welfare in this proposal, and I am also pleased to see that many good legislative initiatives have been taken up here by the representatives of the Finns of Finland. The opposition can also be influenced when it comes to a sensible idea. But I have followed this debate with some confusion as to the criticism of the red-green opposition to this motion. Is nothing enough? I don't think we should go out there and demand anything that's impossible. Finnish agricultural production must be competitive. We cannot, at least in these areas, leave the same internal market area, that is to say, our EU competitors, with much stricter regulations. In this case, production would simply move away and we would lose security of supply and employment and rural areas. This may be a credible aim for the Greens, but is this also what the Social Democrats have been thinking about Finnish rural areas and regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u137	Mr President! I too would like to thank Minister Leppää for finally and finally having the opportunity to discuss this law and its content, but at the same time I share the criticism that this lacks ambition. There are a lot of good improvements to current legislation, but I do not think there are sufficient improvements. Finns today want to buy domestic, ecologically and ethically produced meat. They also pay more attention to how it is produced. We had a Buy from the farm a couple of weeks ago, when the premises opened their doors to the citizens who were interested in seeing how those Finnish animals were properly kept. We do have the majority of producers who take very good care of farm animals, but I am still surprised that, even in this law, for example, not everyone is guaranteed everyday access to water at all times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u138	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and the Ministry for preparing this matter. Here's a good legal basis to start with. This is about the animal's existence, water supply, movement, pain, stunning, slaughter. There are many good things here, and these things have been identified. Then there is also the involvement of humans in animals. I wonder about this content and how these green terrorists will take their place and then interfere with the conditions of this animal. Has this been taken into account, for example, so that even more severe penalties can be imposed for this? This is very good what Mr Eestilä said about how the farmer can, so can the animal, or how can the amateur who owns a dog or cat. In my opinion, the agricultural aspect is now well taken into account in terms of both food production and farming as well as in other areas. There are sufficient transitional periods and a sufficiently clear set of rules.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u139	Mr President! The new Animal Protection Act has been expected for 20 years, and a lot of research on animal behaviour has been gained during that time, including the fact that farmed animals have the same species-specific needs as their natural ancestors. I find it somewhat regrettable that the level of ambition does not reach the Nordic level. For example, now these asparagus with cows tied to their necks in the beard, or the shearing cages, so that the pighouse cannot build a safe nest for its piglets. I would like to ask the Minister for an assessment of why this line has been chosen or how it has been compared with other Nordic countries. On the other hand, there is also a producer perspective, which is extremely important. It is important to encourage a Finnish producer who invests in animal welfare to provide welfare support to producers who invest in animal welfare. Have we thought about these things?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u140	Mr President! As has already been mentioned, this law contains a number of measures to improve animal welfare: pain relief, stunning of animals, species-specific behaviour, breeding restrictions, water supply issues, etc. Well, a farmer wants to worry about his own farm animals. These transitional periods, which have now been put in place here, will in practice make it possible to take these welfare measures on the farm in a sustainable manner. As far as fur production is concerned, the fur is an ecological garment, an important export product for us. In addition to all this, it is a product that improves the environment in us, for example, by significantly improving the phosphorus load and removing the environmental waste that comes from slaughterhouses and so on. A great deal has also been done in this area. When this law comes into force and, in this context, when the welfare law is spoken about, when compared to several EU countries and other, practically other countries from which we have food, it does show that we have the best welfare law from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u141	Mr President! There has been a good debate here about how we all want animal welfare to be increased, but the difference here is perhaps the degree of ambition that we have. Especially since we know that this law has been prepared for a very long time and that during that time there has been a great deal of research in relation to animal behaviour, in relation to animal pain, I would have liked to have set the bar much higher than what has been done here. In particular, the fact that this is a very long transition period would have made it possible for that objective to be even higher, because there is time to adapt, or when these changes are so small as they have been left behind in many respects, much shorter transition periods would have been sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u142	Mr President! We now have on the table one of the most stringent animal welfare laws in the world, and one thing about it is this supply of melted water. It is now very broad and clearly defined. That's why I'm asking, at least in that Lapland and many village areas in almost every house, at least every other one of them has a dog outside, a hunting dog, never been given 24 hours of melted water, and surely they've had enough fluid: do these exceptions now mean that we can continue to be able to keep dogs there, or do we have to stop those dogs? The second point is that, at the moment, what is happening on farms is usually the end of farmers' survival. That is why I would now like to ask a question when we have on the table a law on animal protection: when will there be a law on the protection of farmers?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is the representative. With the exception of Mr Ronkaja, all the Members present who have asked for a reply have received it in this debate. Representative She asked me now, but she wasn't here before.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u144	Mr President! Yes, in spring 2016, I made a bill requiring the stunning of an animal before the fall in a practice of religious slaughter. I am pleased to note that the government has included this in its proposal as a new law on animal welfare. Before the fall of blood, it must be regarded as an animal abuse such as is unacceptable in a civilised state such as Finland. If the law is laid down in accordance with the motion, it will finally be corrected. However, I am concerned about the ritualised meat imported from countries where legislation is not in line. I ask the Minister: is it possible to restrict or even prohibit the import or sale of meat produced in Finland by means of a carnage which violates animal welfare?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u145	Mr President! I have been very concerned about how to deal with these very serious and sometimes long-term animal protection situations. We have experience of how dogs, for example, have been treated or treated or something like that, and attempts have been made to address them, but simply they have not been taken. I would now like to ask the Minister how this animal welfare law addresses precisely these long-term and frequent animal protection remarks. When, for example, they can be caused by a substance abuse problem, mental health problem, financial problems, is there such a comprehensive opportunity to intervene, for example, by supporting animal owners in health care services or other similar activities, such as requiring to go to the services of substance abuse care and then improving animal welfare?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to ask those Members who, through a very tight sieve, are still keen to ask for an answer, stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u147	Mr President! I don't know if I've got it under control, but I've often fucked up in my own profession. Mostly I'd like to comment on a few things. Of course, the Minister can comment on this animal's absolute value for himself, but I think that one of the reasons why it was not raised to the level of the article was that we do not want the courts to start assessing what this absolute value actually means because it would probably have led to it. Now it doesn't lead to that. One of these asparagus things. I am very pleased that the development has gone in such a direction that animals are able to practice species-like behaviour. Many people do not buy anything but free - chicken eggs, and the same may be the case in the future for people to buy milk from cows in the courtyards. But I've seen tens of thousands of cows in the beard in my career, and I've seen some pretty good cows. It is not necessarily true either that those animals are not doing well, because it is quite difficult to measure the welfare of the animal after all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u148	Mr President! These asparagus have been raised in many speeches and it is now worth remembering that new asparagus are no longer being built in Finland. The size of the barn investment is so significant, it is about EUR 10,000 per cow farm that no one makes any more new barns, that is, they are all yards, and there are not many that make renovations and expand asparagus, but usually move on to gardening solutions. This is where Congressman Majala brought out the dogs in Lapland. It is easy to start thinking about it also with regard to wild animals. In other words, when it is 30 degrees Fahrenheit [30 ° C], no wild animal gets direct water but eats snow there. So do foxes, mooses, etcetera. In other words, the fact that this is now being corrected in our production facilities during the transitional period is a completely adequate measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u149	Mr President! There has been talk of a puppy factory here, and unfortunately there is one in Finland. The possible approval of the dog identification marking, which would make it mandatory, should reduce puppy production, which is good. But that is the core problem in many European countries where there can be thousands of mother dogs in those halls in terrible conditions, and they are being pups all the time, and they are there in the West Port then behind the trunk of the car. It needs to be addressed more strongly. Welfare compensation for producers: the problems of producers have been raised here, and welfare compensation should be much better for producers who invest in ethical welfare for animals. Then I would also say, when there are so many animal friends here: The Parliament is represented by the animal welfare team of which I am the chairman. Unfortunately, there are very few participants at those meetings, although:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u150	Mr President! It was good to hear that the Greens value Finnish food producers. Mr Kari repeated it in his own speech. But now I would like to ask in connection with the Green Bill: do you also respect the Turkish champions? I think this is very much recorded: fur farming is the cruelst form of animal production, and you want to stop it. Where is the respect for Finnish fur production? It was dealt with very carefully during the last period when we had the citizens' initiative, and we also respected the fur champions, took it very seriously and recorded it in the report which was then discussed in the Chamber. Where's the respect now?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u151	Reply Mr Kalmari, then Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u152	Mr President! I do not think it is constructive if it is precisely from the point of view that we want to put an end to a form of production, be it small dairy farms or fur production. I find it incomprehensible that the Greens are going down this road at the same time as, for example, they are proclaiming that they are speaking on behalf of small farms in rural areas with another mouthpiece. Now the Greens have a clear policy: they do not want small dairy farms to be here in Finland. It is drawn that this would be different elsewhere, in other countries or in other Nordic countries. For example, in England, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, there is no ban on building butter in Denmark, Norway. And just as Hautala said, we're moving to the Swedish line,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u153	Mr President! When we talk about animal welfare and the fact that we now have 20 years of more researched information about what causes stress, pain, suffering, we have to make animal welfare law on the basis of this researched knowledge. I do not appreciate the fact that if we are trying here to bring out researched information, it is claimed that we do not appreciate producers. Of course we value producers, and of course we respect people. The question is that we want this law to be based on the researched information we have on animal welfare. This is also the case, for example, of this position of the Finnish Association of Veterinarians, which I mentioned earlier here. They state very clearly that the current form of fur farming cannot be acceptable under the new animal welfare law, based on the very fact that fur animals cannot carry out their species-specific use in these cages. It causes stress and suffering, and the animal is not well there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u154	President! It is unfortunate that we have a few organisations operating here in Finland that give the impression that animals are being treated badly in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u155	Mr President! I would also ask myself about this puppy factory when, unfortunately, there is some experience in the circle of friends. This puppy factory is also in Finland, and the experience is that these puppies are sold at service stations or somewhere other than the home of this owner or of these puppies. They are usually cheap, may also be partly ill, and the background also then used to exploit a person, could you say, from these things to helping desire, and perhaps it's economical there in the background is shown. What is the government going to do under this legislation that this kind of puppy factory here in Finland could be prevented?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u156	Mr President! I'm going back to that slaughter theme. Indeed, I asked a written question in 2015 when these small slaughterhouses were exposed with negligence. The animal did not rejuvenate, but was still conscious when slaughtered, and it was quite cruel camera footage that came. There were cameras on the scene at the time, but certainly not such official surveillance cameras. Now, in this law, it is suggested that the Food Agency can set up cameras. I'd like to ask you: Is this enough that there is that “butter”? Shouldn't we be watching the cameras? Then I would like to ask you at all about this training of butchers, which is an undergraduate in the food sector and which goes under the name of the meat product manufacturer. How are we to be monitored, and is it enough to be sure that you know what you're doing and that you know what you're doing at all? What, then, of course — one more question — about these veterinary costs? There are a lot of people who can't afford to take an animal to a vet. How would you respond to them in those situations?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, at this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the following representatives: Mr Modig, Mr Hakanen, Mr Hassi and Mr Meri. After that, the Minister will have two minutes, and then we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u158	Mr President! The Left Alliance also sees that fur farming must be abandoned within a sufficiently long transition period and that the trader must be supported in such a way that it does not become unreasonable for them. It can take advantage of generational exchanges and other means of supporting the transformation of the economy. But we in the Left Alliance also want Finnish food production to be well and Finnish food producer to be well. If we want Finnish food production to succeed, we cannot ignore the change in attitude and the change in values that has taken place in Finnish society. More and more people want to buy ethically produced, transparently produced, clean food. It is the greatest asset in Finnish food production that it is actually able to meet the requirements that current research data tells us that animal welfare requires and that more and more Finns consider important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u159	Mr President! This is the representative. The column previously asked the Minister whether this legislation would guarantee the continued control of farmed animals as well as the control of pet animals in the future. This is also a big question in terms of how these laws will be enforced. We know that farm animals have health contracts all the time, there are surveillance visits, very often, many times a year, and everything will be taken into account if anything comes up suspicious. However, as someone here said earlier, the consumer will make the final choice as to what he buys from the market as a food, and so will the ethics that the Left Alliance has just expressed in its speeches. Speaking of fur production as well as meat production or anything else, do you think that when it is out of sight it is out of the mind? We cannot safeguard ethics if we do not know how the products are actually produced abroad. If even fur production stops in Finland, it is certainly not the use of furs here on the street or in accessories. It is absolutely certain that they will be used anyway. So you should also assess whether you really want it out of your sight and out of your mind. Is that a mentality?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u160	Mr President! I do not find it regrettable, for example, that there is an organisation in Finland called the Veterinarian Association, which brings us parliamentarians, among other things, information on what the current scientific study of animal welfare requirements reveals. The fact that an animal does not have a disease does not mean that the animal is actually well. But I find the strangest thing that is to be interpreted in this debate as the stigmatisation of farmers who keep farm animals and to doubt their morals that they want a better law. After all, it is a question of competitive conditions, that, in a situation of fair competition, everyone must act well. After all, we are here all the time to legislate which imposes limits and conditions on the various activities in the law as to the conditions under which they are to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u161	Reply, Mr Meri. This is the last response.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u162	Mr President! I myself have adopted former homeless dogs and Finnish horses, and I am a very animal lover. Nevertheless, I understand that we cannot shut down agricultural producers and the farming industry by putting too much pressure on them too quickly and we assume that everyone is almost animal abusers, which we must monitor 24/7. As a horse owner and a horse friend, I would have asked here about this access to drinking water that you can deviate if there are exceptional and difficult weather conditions. I was thinking that on horse stables outside — horses want to be outdoors even in the winter and some, such as Finnish horses, do not even want a bump — there is no way to guarantee that the water doesn’t freeze. What should we do then? Do we have to put those horses away now or what's the exception?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u163	Now to the minister from that canteen for a maximum of 3 minutes, but the minister may well undercut himself if he wishes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u164	Good. — Thank you for this opportunity. Mr President! Quick run a few things. Let us start with that comparison with the Nordic countries and other countries with regard to the reform of this legislation. Of course they did. And, as I said, this is a vast package and a comparison of it so that if one single point is picked up there, it will not do justice to the whole that we are creating. We are now creating the best legislation in the world for animal welfare when we look at that big picture, and that is the way it should be. Of course, we definitely want to be a pointer here, and this is the basis for the latest scientific knowledge, as well as for the fact that many structures have also changed. There is talk of free chickens, there is talk of asparagus, there is talk of free farrowing and so on. This is the direction in which this is going, more and more strongly and more strongly. Among other things, the closure of investment aid for those asparagus has been reported. Then there was the question of whether it could be prevented that food produced elsewhere in the world, which has not been produced in accordance with Finnish legislation from the perspective of animal welfare... — Free trade does not make it possible to deny it, and in this breath, in the same breath, I would say that when we talk only about price and compete only at price, then we are exposed to this kind of activity. We bring in countries that do not comply — not from an environmental point of view, not from a climate point of view, not from a social point of view, not from an animal welfare point of view — with strict regulations similar to those that we have and, for example, in Sweden. Then it will come to the point that the animal has not been able to do so well there when the product is as cheap as possible on the market. This is the imbalance that we obviously have here. That is why we have also made a decision in principle in state food procurement, in which Finnish production requirements must be respected. I hope that each of us decision-makers will also take the same to our own municipalities. Then, Speaker, the registration of cats, the registration of dogs. “It’s really important to get the puppy factory cleaned up. That is an extremely important issue. We now have a report in the Ministry. It will be completed during the fall. Then we will come back to this issue, which is what all the measures will be taken to contain this. It is already clear that the policy is that dogs become subject to compulsory registration, but it is easier to implement it than for cats, because there are already more than 80% of dogs in the register, but there are quite different numbers of cats, and that is why we are starting from here. This has no impact on current racing competitions, horse riding competitions, but specifies the basis for knowledge and the qualifications required. That is what we want to do there. Of course, the law applies to all possible forms of production and also to hobby animals, that is clear. The last question, President-in-Office, is whether this definition of camera surveillance is sufficient: I think it is. There are such strong control criteria for slaughterhouses as to enable the authority to do so if necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u165	Mr President! The government's proposal for a law on animal welfare leaves many key requirements of animal organisations unfulfilled. When the obsolete law is finally reformed, it is a pity that we do not want to improve animal welfare even at the level of the other Nordic countries. The draft law does not prohibit parsing and farrowing cages, but the animals can be restrained. Porcupine can’t build a safe nest for its young, and the dairy herd can be kept tied to its neck. Access to pasture and outdoor activities should be a species-specific right for animals, but this is also not guaranteed in the draft law. To the fullest, not all animals are entitled to continuous drinking water. Turkey farming will remain unchanged even if it would be more sustainable to abandon it during the transitional period. The Greens' proposal provides support for the sector's exchange of fur champions. In the last 20 years, a lot of new research has been gained on the behaviour and needs of animals, and the new law should be based on the researched information. It is important for the welfare of the animal that the animal is allowed to carry out its species-specific behavioural needs such as exercise, rest, herd behaviour, environmental study, feeding, play and care for the offspring of the mothers. Animal organisations and other experts have been involved for years in the work of the steering group in the drafting of the legislation, but many of the reforms that improve animal conditions will not be carried out if the law is adopted in the form proposed by the government. I hope that Parliament will improve the proposal in many respects. It is also the wish of many other Finns. The Eurobarometer 2016 shows that 90% of Finns want better protection of farm animals. At the same time, it is important to ensure the livelihood and survival of producers. Even for climate reasons, meat consumption needs to be reduced and it should cost more. A farmer who cares for the welfare of an animal deserves better support for the better health of the animals. The intensive farming approach to industrial production is not in the interests of consumers, farmers and animals. I would also like to see greater emphasis placed on organic production, where animals and the environment are better cared for. There are also some steps in the right direction in the government's proposal. The compulsory identification of dogs is a legally supported proposal and the tightening of animal breeding is welcome. For example, when it comes to painful measures, it is important to demand mandatory pain relief, but this is not fully documented either. Why should pigs continue to be castrated without effective pain removal? This law affects the lives of many animals and how they are treated. That is why this proposal requires a number of improvements. The conditions of farmed animals must be improved. Consumers are increasingly aware and are more in favour of animal rights. Domesticity and the Swanmark must also be a stronger guarantee of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u166	Mr President! The Animal Welfare Act contains both good things and things that still require further development and improvement in the parliamentary process. It is good, in matters that have been improved by law and after the consultation, for example, pain relief and castration, the limitation of the time spent in breeding cages, the extension of the foot-and-mouthing of bovine animals, the improvement of access to drinking water through statements and public feedback, a separate law on dog identification, the designation of a veterinary surgeon working in the province, no longer just the province, as the draft law, the supervision of camera for slaughterhouses, the introduction of slaughter restrictions, no longer possible in the name of religion. So there are good things in this law. Mr President! But the problem with these good things is that the purpose of the law and the general requirements of the place and treatment are good, but in this proposal, as in the current law, these good intentions are watered down by exceptions and lower standards. Let me raise a few points. Firstly, there is no mention of the absolute value of animals, it is only in the explanatory statement. It'd be important to get it up there. The continuation of fur farming for all current fur animals is to be allowed, although it is impossible to guarantee those conditions under which their typical behavioural needs, including in the field of movement and food exploration, would be taken into account. In fact, on the basis of the legislation already in force, fur farming should be banned. There's no ban on fur farming. Not even continuous water supply is required, it is limited to breeding animals, and it also has a transitional period of up to nine years. In the long transitional period, it would be justified to abolish fur farming in such a way as to provide farmers with a system of abandonment. A ban on breeding cages, even in a long transition period, would send a signal that animal welfare research would be taken seriously in the preparation of legislation. Castration of piglets with possible pain medication alone is not sufficient to change the current situation. We should give up the castration altogether. In parsin pulls, the leging of cows is increased from 60 to 90 days a year. This can be done at other times than summertime in the future. This is a good thing and a good intention, but it can in reality also reduce foot-and-mouthing if we do not ensure that controls work. It is difficult to monitor by name if there is no clear period of time when animals should at least be outdoors. This is something that needs to be considered in the legislative process here. The Left Alliance's point of view is that asparagus should be banned altogether. This abandonment of investment aid certainly leads in this direction. Mr President! The only lasting competitive advantage of Finnish agriculture, Finnish food production, is that it is safe, clean and ethically produced. In the past, for example, there was no total ban on caged hens, but instead production was transferred to so-called virile caps, which are also being marketed as small-scale canals. Now consumers and shops are voting through their own actions and the demand for virile-crystalling eggs is waning. Mr President! We cannot rely on consumers alone, but we must improve the legislation. I raised the issues that it would be good to take forward in this parliamentary debate, but consumers themselves will also be on the shelf to vote in favour of buying more ethically, better food for animal welfare. Instead of giving the necessary impetus to livestock production to become truly sensitive to animal welfare, let us stick to the old one until it becomes unprofitable if we go along with this proposal. I therefore hope that the parliamentary procedure will take account of these concerns raised by many experts in many opinions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u167	Mr President! The animal welfare law in the referral debate is a very balanced whole with clear improvements to animal welfare, while taking into account the economic impact of the law on production. The law has been prepared with common sense. For this, I would like to thank both Minister Leppa and the officials involved in the preparation of the matter. The result is excellent and balanced. This is an important development and step forward in terms of animal welfare, and it is done in a way that can also be implemented in practice. Overbreeding of animals will be addressed, as will the authorities be given the opportunity to intervene in illegal animal breeding. In addition, the use, use and import of equipment which causes pain to animals, such as electric collars, shall be prohibited. The animals must always be stunned before slaughtering. Parsinas will be gone over time. Although other things have been discussed here today, it is true: the new barns are yards. However, the sector needs time to adapt to these costs. For example, in a pig economy, there will certainly be an increase in the free farrowing process, and one new invention is the bullock. I have also been getting to know one new pig in the yard where animal welfare has been taken on top of the last. At the same time, however, it must be remembered that improvements in the welfare of farmed animals are out of the pocket of the Finnish producer. It is very easy to demand new measures when you are not paying yourself. Producers are now unable to finance improvements in this economic situation, and that is why these transitional periods are here. I hope that they will be understood in that way and against that background. However, domestic production meets the high-quality welfare requirements of animals and improves welfare in a controlled manner. Mr President! For Finnish high-quality food, the store has made only a price toy. It does not show the cost of animal welfare at all. Although we already have stricter regulations than the EU average, the price of meat is falling down. The high standards and well-being should therefore be fully reflected in the producer price. When we know that producers are struggling with serious profitability problems, this is all the more important. At the same time, meat is imported to Finland from Central Europe, even from Brazil as far as Thailand. A year ago, news of uneatable Brazilian meat spread in the spring. This highlighted the risks associated with foreign meat and highlighted the quality of meat sold in Finland. Many people prefer Finns in their speeches because the Finnish meat production chain can be traced from farms to the consumer's table, but unfortunately the price is ultimately the choice. The consumer can always choose organic. It guarantees opportunities for the animals to walk and walk and the typical behaviour of the species. The draft law includes a requirement for animal care, which allows animals to satisfy their behavioural needs for exercise, rest, comfort, search for food and so on. Mr President! Animal welfare requires very long-term work. Finnish animal welfare is at a very high level. I really wish that in this Chamber we would all be proud of what we have achieved when compared to what is happening elsewhere. Every day we can thank you for the fact that we are basically very well placed. And the fact that we ourselves are proud of it and we appreciate it will also help producers to get a better price on the market in the future. Of course, other work needs to be done on it, and that is the kind of legislation that is currently under discussion in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u168	Then there is the reply to the Minister. That's a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u169	Madam President! Thank you for a very good debate so far, a wide-ranging one. One point that has not yet been raised in this debate is that I should like to raise here. It's animal breeding. This law, this welfare law, specifies, is now taking a significant, new approach to animal breeding, which, of course, must always be aimed at healthy and viable animals. Now this may not have been the case in every case. This applies especially to pets of enthusiasts. That is why we need to take this aspect into account in this new law. This is one important aspect of animal welfare, that vitality is also seen as one big, big point in the overall health status of animals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u170	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u171	We shall now proceed to the seventh reading of item 7 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. Congressman Modig, please. — We'll take this one more time, and then we'll stop.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u172	Madam President! I believe that a very valuable debate has taken place this evening, and I admit, at least myself, that I have learned a number of things here and broadened my perspective. I haven't changed my opinion. In this government proposal, the first section begins and reads: ‘The purpose of this law is to promote animal welfare and to protect animals from the best possible harm to their well-being. The purpose of the law is also to increase respect for and good treatment of animals.” This is the most important and most worthy attempt, but when this bill is wadeded forward, this is so contradictory internally that I cannot truly see that this first paragraph is being fulfilled. Many questions have been raised in this debate which, in my opinion, call into question the spirit and letter of this first paragraph, but it is quite clear that the condition for animal welfare is that the animal's species-specific needs are met. There has been a lot of discussion here about asparagus, and it is certainly true that when investment aid runs out, it gradually steers the effort towards not building it and moving on to the yards. For myself, I would see that a modern and ambitious animal welfare law or a law on animal welfare would now ban them. That could be taken into account during the transitional period, but legislation also sends out a message about the values that we consider important. It was said here that there is also an extension of the obligation to walk animals in asparagus. Does anyone really think that there's enough for a cow to go out for three months a year? I'm not. There's been a lot of talk here about castration. I will not go into the question of immuno-castration again, but I will only point out that: In Sweden, anesthesia has been made mandatory in the context of castration in 2016. In many other Nordic countries, too, stricter regulations have been laid down, more stringent bans have been imposed, especially in the case of asparagus and farrowing cages, without their production and economic conditions having collapsed. In this respect, I would like to point out that I still believe that the plight of producers does not come from animal welfare law or animal welfare, but from within the commercial sector. It is based on the structure of the price that producers receive for their product. I fully agree with Mr Halmeenpää's idea that the direction should be that we produce less meat but that it gives the producer a higher price, and the consumer also has to pay a higher price for it. If we look at it from the point of view of climate change alone, we must be able to increase the share of vegetable protein in our diet, and that does not mean that everyone should become vegan tomorrow. Mr President! I hope that this debate will continue to work in committee now, and in my opinion, so that the spirit of the law enshrined in the explanatory memorandum will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u173	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. 30 minutes are set aside for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the 9th item. — Presentation, Minister Leppä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u174	Madam President! The aim of the Temporary Finance Act for Sustainable Forestry is to encourage forest owners to provide sustainable forest management and use. The aim of the Kemera proposal is to speed up the decision-making process of early care, young forest management and support for health fertilisation. In these cases, decisions on the granting of aid and the final amount of aid could be taken automatically. This would allow these projects to be carried out earlier. At the same time, automation would speed up the payment of support for the projects that have been implemented, which is linked to the objectives of the digitisation of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government Programme and will contribute to the strengthening of support management and the dismantling of red tape. Automatic decision-making would apply to so-called clear cases in which the elements contained in the application or implementation notice can be verified either through the Forest Information System of the Centre for Forests or through the technical interface of the Authority. Legal certainty for landowners has been taken into account in the proposal. The automation is limited to those decisions where the aid is granted in accordance with the application or the declaration of implementation. If the check does not work automatically or there is some confusion, the Metsäkeskus staff member would process the application, as is currently the case. At the same time, technical amendments would be made to Kemera’s appeal acts. Kemera’s recovery acts, as well as the provisions relating to the termination of the contract, have had a two-step appeal procedure, i.e. an appeal to the Administrative Court and subsequently to the Supreme Administrative Court. It would continue to be. On the other hand, decisions relating to the granting of aid and the payment of aid have been subject to a three-step appeal procedure. First an appeal to Metsäkeskus, then an appeal to the Administrative Court and finally an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. In the future, the procedure would, as a general rule, be two-step. However, if the Supreme Administrative Court granted the appeal authorisation, the procedure would then be three-stage. In the same context, the provision on the obligation to consult Metsäkeskus would be deleted from Kemera. The appeal court may hear and hear Metsäkeskus directly on the basis of the Administrative Law without the special provision of Kemera. The Supreme Administrative Court raised these review needs of the appeal in the Parliamentary Administrative Committee in connection with the regional reform package. At the time, it was considered appropriate to make changes while the Kemera Act was already being opened. This automatic decision-making enhances decision-making and frees Metsäkeskus's resources from routine tasks to other demanding tasks and, for example, customer service. Information system changes are made within the framework of the central government spending limits decision and the central government budget appropriations and man-years. It should also be noted that all these proposed amendments were supported by all the rapporteurs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u175	Chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u176	Madam President! This legislative proposal is also a very good piece of work for the Minister. We have spoken about what has happened since Kemera and suggested that it should be less bureaucratic, but it is really great that what previous ministers did not believe that, despite the EU regulations, we can also lighten up the current Kemera has now been achieved. It is great that the time for the people of Metsäkeskus does not go to work in vain; they can now focus on the essential: advice and the preservation of diversity in the event of increased fellings and this type of thing. The early care of the trout, the management of the young forest, the support for health fertilisation now comes automatically as an automation decision and also the final support. This is a very good thing. Similarly, this complaint system will be simplified. However, given the opportunity to do so, I would like to reflect a little on the period after Kemera, which we went through with one seminar last spring. The new incentive system would be even more effective and less bureaucratic, a challenge for the Minister, and it must correct things that do not happen automatically. For example, it may not be worth supporting a market that is already profitable with our common tax money. I am referring here, for example, to the fibre-wood market. Future aid must not be allowed to distort competition and should have a genuine incentive effect. When we held this seminar, there was a reasonably unanimous idea that these would be the basic principles for which to invest in the future. We also have examples of how tax dumping can create chaos.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u177	Madam President! The Kemera Act is an excellent law and, as the government's proposal shows, the huge number of hectares has been able to get right with this aid. We all know that forests must be maintained, seedlings must be cleared and young forests restored. This is about cutting red tape. In a way, there have been standards, and this is an excellent thing. Now you can apply for Kemera much simpler, and decision-making speeds up very much, payment of subsidies, which today has been reasonably problematic, is accelerating. All in all, savings will also be made in the EUR 500000, which has been mentioned here, which is an excellent thing. Of course, the starting point here is that even a perfectly normal forest owner can make these requests himself, take care of it. Once there is information about forest resources in forest centres, things can be taken forward better. From the point of view of the whole Finnish forestry economy, this should be regarded as a highly supported proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u178	Mr President! I agree with what Mr Reijos has to say, and at the same time I say that there are more legislative proposals this evening to streamline standards. It can be said that bureaucracy is being dismantled and digitised, as is the case with this law. That is the central objective of the Government Programme, and it is good to say that the work that has also been done from the point of view of the parliamentary groups is being pushed forward in this way. The second aspect is, of course, that this is a well-balanced law and that Finnish forestry today is in a good blow. It was considered here a few years ago even as a sunset, but the estimate was completely incorrect. Once again, agriculture and forestry raise Finland, and this whole bioeconomy is of particular importance to us today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u179	Madam President! This reform of the Kemera Act and the new approach to Kemera funding is an excellent thing. After all, however, what matters here is how much of the euro goes to that forest management and how little is spent on bureaucracy. The more the forest is used, the better, and, of course, there is control in this funding procedure, so that we can control by sampling whether the money has been used correctly and based on the reality of what has been announced, that is to say, control must be, of course. It would also be important to note that in the coming years, when this Kemera law, too, as we know, is sometimes renewed in the world, so Kemera as a form of funding for forestry, should continue to be maintained in some form, but whatever form it may be. But this bill, which is now on this table, may it be one of the main aims of the new future law, where we are going, because it is clear that all the money we want to invest in the forests must be aimed at investing in it and dismantling the bureaucracy, just as one of the most important aims of the Juha Sipilä Government has been: bureaucracy away and focussing on genuine work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u180	Mr President! The Sustainable Forestry Finance Act has set ambitious targets with far-reaching and significant economic and operational impacts at national level. However, we must now recognise that Kemera has failed to achieve all its objectives. That is why these proposed changes are welcome. Reducing bureaucracy, streamlining activities and speeding up decision-making and decision-making are steps in the right direction. It is great that the traditional sector can now take advantage of the potential of new technologies and digitalisation. Mr President! All measures that further improve the conditions for Finnish high-quality forest management and breeding are welcome. In this case, the changes are also in the right direction. Time, effort and money must be as much as possible involved in the actual work there, for example, to deal with the problems of young forests. I would therefore like to thank the Minister and the Government for the fact that these amendments have now come and go through this house quickly and put the legislation in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u181	Mr President! Finland is a success story in terms of forest management. In the 1950s, our forests grew by about 50 million cubic metres a year, and today they are growing by 110 million cubic metres a year, and a very significant part of this increase in growth has been through these silvicultural measures. When new fellings have been made, sown or planted, then seedlings have been treated, young forest management and so on. Forest roads have been built, rehabilitation has been carried out and so on. In other words, we have done very well on a global scale in terms of the conditions under which the forestry sector operates. These figures speak for themselves. As colleagues have said here, the importance of the forest sector in the future also seems to grow and become stronger, so the bioeconomy as a whole is the strongest factor of success for Finland in the future. It is a good thing that this streamlining, digitisation and de-bureaucratisation is carried out in all sectors, according to the Government Programme. The amendments to the Kemera Act contribute to speeding up decision-making and payment and then making this technology available to everyone. This system is therefore on a good basis and now this legislation improves it. As far as the new system is concerned, it is clear that investing in the forestry sector, also in support measures, will bring them back to the national economy in the form of jobs, in the form of tax revenues and in all ways in the form of well-being. In other words, the promotion of forestry will also be needed in the future. Whatever the system is, it should be as supportive as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u182	Madam President! It was not yet said that this development, which goes into this type of automatic grant procedure, is a natural development even in forestry matters, because almost all forest farms have a forest plan and can now be seen from the graph data to a large extent, from the computer's image tube, what kind of forest is involved and whether such support can be granted to such a site. Once this digitalisation has progressed in this country and is strongly supported, among other things, by the government as an important policy, this new bill is also very good. And when you look at the amounts of money that have been spent on Finland’s forests through Kemera — just over EUR 50 million a year is going to go into the money that the two thirds of the money is being spent on trout and young forest management — we see that, after all, very large money is not involved, but when Finland’s forests are extremely important for Finland’s national economy, it is a very good thing that this bureaucracy has been dismantled and that the money has been spent more efficiently on the field work that is most important. Once the forests have been harvested, they grow better and produce well-being, note, for future generations. Today's work is only work for future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u183	Madam President! Inspired by Mr Rantakangas, I will take another floor on how forest policy should be long-term and overgenerational. When decisions were taken decades ago, the basis was laid that our carbon sequestration today is what it is. If there had been no investment in forest growth and management, it would not be the way it is today. In the early '70s, our forests had 1.5 billion cubic metres of trees and now there are 2.5 billion. In other words, there has been an enormous increase in growth despite the fact that we have been using more forests all along, and Kemera has contributed to this growth. In future, we must continue to focus increasingly on the fact that there will be incentives in the future, especially at the beginning of forestry. It may not even be possible to enjoy these results in your generation, but, as I started with this speech, forestry is an overgeneration of activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u184	Mr President! We know that Finland lives largely on forests and forest management is needed to ensure that forests produce well, but at the same time we know that the diversity of forests also needs to be taken care of, and this cannot only be done through protection, but also plays a crucial role in how the so-called economic forests are treated. Of course, this legislation now focuses mainly on how to reduce the management of Kemera subsidies, how to make use of digitalisation to ensure that this money does not go as far as possible to the administration, but that we can get as far as possible to the ground for those treatments, but then, in the future, when we look at how these Kemera subsidies should be developed, it would be important to target them on the types of measures that we can also ensure the diversity of economic forests. For example, in the future, a sufficient amount of this Kemera aid should also be allocated to transitional measures, which is now clearly increasing and is of great interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u185	Madam President! It is just as Mr Mikkonen said that forests play a major role in Finland's regional economy and in the economy as a whole. The impact on employment is also quite extensive in that rural area. However, this brings a lot of work, not just for forest owners — not all of them are able to do it — but also for others, contractors and so on. I welcome the fact that the support for the forestry road network has still been included in this proposal, i.e. the construction and renovation of a new forest road. It is extremely important in a situation where the axle loads of cars are growing and there is an increasing burden on forest cars. And today the tree is moving, and that is why it is extremely important that the forest road network is also in order. Health fertilizer still seems to remain here, which is an excellent thing. Now that the starting point for this proposal is that the time to go through these processes would be faster — now it seems to be 32 days for young forest and seedling management — if it can be speeded up, then of course it will make it easier for us to get there faster when the situation is in place to do the actual work. I think this is an excellent thing. All in all, I myself would like to emphasise the importance of governance when I myself have experience in the renovation of forest cars, and the administrative cost was unreasonable if you say so, and we have to get some kind of rat for this job. Far too much goes on — I am not going to mention who is operating it — but it is often the case that the relatively simple renovation of forestry cars requires that bureaucracy and so on. But the administrative cost cannot be between 25% and 30% when there is so-called control. It may be that someone will visit twice to see that it looks good, but that cost is quite unreasonable, and I think that this proposal is also intended to intervene, and that is the right way forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u186	Madam President! This proposal concerns the automation of Kemera decisions. As Mr Ala-Nissilä has rightly pointed out here, digitalisation, deregulation and deregulation are now extremely well taken into account. When it comes to automatic decision-making, this is the case with so-called clear cases, in which case the details of the application and the declaration of implementation can be checked either through the forest information system of the Centre for Forests or through the information system of the authority, so that the technical interface can be viewed. This is also one of the things that speeds up payments after implementation, and the legal security of the forest owner will also be taken into account, and it is a very small matter in this bill, but it is important when it comes to the legal protection of landowners. Furthermore, considering that this automatic decision-making makes it more efficient, it also releases the resources of Metsäkeskus for routine tasks, while there are more demanding tasks and customer service at all times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u187	Madam President! The forest industry has been a very important industry for Finland for decades, and it is also important that the forest sector is aware of change and the fight against climate change and that an increasing proportion of forest products would go to more sustainable wood products. All the same, this law on the change in the financing of sustainable forestry is necessary in itself, because it is of course necessary to be able to do forest thinnings on time and to get the drivers of forest machinery working and moving domestic wood, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when it comes also to reducing regulation, digitalisation and dismantling standards, it is really crucial that biodiversity and its protection are taken into account. For example, economic forests may also have valuable natural sites, which must be protected from forest management measures, and then, on the other hand, the preservation of biodiversity requires what Mr Mikkonen already said earlier, that softer forest management methods are also used in economic forests, that there are trees of different sizes, different species in the forest, and this environment provides a much more diverse environment for animals. In this government proposal, it is worth carefully considering that biodiversity has been properly taken into account in this respect. On the other hand, I would also like to raise the issue of the fact that Finland has a very large number of ditched woodland with very poor timber yield but which could be restored to a bog that is also very endangered in Finland at the moment. How does the Minister see: can this law also make it possible to restore such crystals, drained forest bottoms so that ecological systems can be restored to the natural state?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u188	Madam Speaker! Of course, forest management and the maintenance of biodiversity are also matters of Kemera funding, and they have been taken care of and will be taken care of. It is very important that the Greens now set out to encourage the management of forests. I have been a little concerned at times when it seems that it is not as if it is understood that timber is not growing if the forests are not thinned, and it has somehow been underestimated the importance of fibrewood. It is quite clear that when a tree is cut down, different parts come out. On average, 60% goes to the log section and 25 fibers and then the rest of the energy. It makes perfect sense for us to use all those parts of the tree and also to manage the forests at different stages of growing, so that we can get that log wood. I think that every time we use renewable products instead of products of fossil origin, we do an eco-action. I really enjoyed hearing this in Mr Karimäki's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u189	I will give the floor to Mr Mikkos and then to the Minister, and then we will have to stop because of the time shortage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u190	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Kalmar that his view that the Greens do not understand the importance of forestry is indeed wrong. We know that well. I myself come from the forest capital of Finland, Joensuu, from the middle of the forests, and we certainly have the same understanding that forests are needed — wood is a good renewable resource — but of course we have emphasised a great deal that the management of forests must take into account the maintenance of diversity, because we know that most of Finland's endangered species are forest species. And, as I have just said, it is not just the protection of forests that we can guarantee this diversity, but it also means that the management of forests must take account of the species of forests and guarantee their viability. On the other hand, we have stressed that when wood is used, it is worth using above all the type of carbon storage that remains: sustainable products, highly processed products, so that we can also get a better value from it and hence export income. These are the things we have been talking about for a long time, and I believe we have a very similar view. I do not think there is any point in starting a confrontation here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u191	Reply Minister Leppä, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the expert contributions that have just been heard. It is clear that digitalisation, automation, streamlining also brings with it the goal of what was in most speeches, namely that more and more of the funds allocated will end up in that genuine, practical forestry work. That's what this means, isn't it? Not only is it easier and faster but it also takes the money in the right direction for which it is intended. It's obvious. The importance of the forest sector is emphasised. That is quite clear. This will certainly be the case. The fact that we are able to give up more and more fossil raw materials is part of improving our climate and the environment. Diversity must be taken care of, it is quite clear, both in economic forests and elsewhere. We have many projects: there is multi-forest, there is forest, there is game forest, there is wetland and so on and so on. And when the Metsäkeskus also has access to the data of all other administrative sectors in this automated system and they automatically compare with each other, if it is found that the project Kemera is concerned with is in an area where there are significant areas and special targets, then it is automatically transferred to manual processing. In other words, this is to ensure that there is no automatic destruction of some areas that are of particular value to us. It's obvious. Here too came the observation that there are also guidelines for the construction of the next Kemera, the new Kemera, which is more and more smooth. And it is probably the case that, in some respects, we may have to re-evaluate the issues in their palatable regions. And for the very last thing, Mr President, I am encouraging the use of Kemera's funds. There are still plenty of them for this year too, and we have a lot of work to do in the forests. Now we are all working to get them out of there and then put the seedlings and other areas in order. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u193	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. One hour is reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the 10th item. Let's open a conversation. — Minister Saarikko, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u194	Mr President! Finally, the proposal proposes to introduce a new disability service law after years of preparation, cooperation and effort. The new law reconciles existing laws on disability services and special care for people with mental disabilities, the so-called existing disability service and disability law. The law would complement general social services for all, which in turn are provided for in the Social Welfare Act. As in the past, health care for people with disabilities would be governed by the Health Care Act. The aim of the proposal is to ensure equal services for people with disabilities and to strengthen their autonomy and participation. The proposal would also implement the principle of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The starting point of the law is not so much a human diagnosis, illness, disability or other medical definition, but, above all, a genuine need for services. As is the case today, the services provided under the proposal are therefore special services which would be provided to persons with disabilities, if the services provided under other laws, such as general social welfare services, are not sufficient or suitable. Mr President! There is no upper or lower age limit for disabled people. Equality and inclusion should take place in relation to others at the same stage of life. An elderly person could receive services under the Disability Services Act if the services of the Social Welfare Act are not sufficient. Services for older people should also take into account the Act on Elderly Services and its provisions on responding to the service needs of an elderly person and on the implementation and quality of services for older people. Mr President! The right to self-determination and participation in this Act: Participation, consultation and inclusion of a disabled person are central to the assessment, planning and practical implementation of services. This already existing regulation is also complemented by amendments to the Social Welfare Act concerning the time limit for starting an assessment of the need for services, aspects to be taken into account in assessing the ability to function and the need for services, and the content of the customer plan. Subjective rights will be maintained in most of the services with this proposal. Services that safeguard the inclusion, equality and necessary care of a disabled person would remain strong subjective rights. These would include housing support that would correspond to the services of living in existing laws and support for unhindered housing, i.e. so-called housing renovations, personal assistance and mobility support, i.e. existing transport services. Subjective rights would also include enhanced training and support in the reform, as well as short-term care and day-to-day activities, as well as appropriate transport. These services would in future be available to more disabled persons in different ways than today. As far as housing is concerned, Mr President, in particular independent housing would be supported by various services brought home. The disabled person should primarily be able to live in an apartment of his own choice. The whole of the aid would be defined according to the individual needs of the disabled person. This provision would provide assistance and support to day-to-day activities, to promote well-being and health, and to enable inclusion, communication and also family life. Families of disabled children would receive help at home that would make it possible for them to live at home even in a difficult situation. This could be supported, for example, by providing a nurse for the child at home. With regard to personal assistance, services would support the self-determination of a disabled person and his/her own choices in a manner consistent with current legislation. The current different ways in which personal assistance is implemented would remain, but the employer model would be regulated more precisely than at present. This would require the consent of the disabled person and an adequate explanation of the responsibilities and responsibilities of the employer from the provincial business department. In the future, no one can become an employer under personal help against his will. Moving. More options and flexibility are outlined in the law. Instead of transport services, a disabled person could also have access to a car under certain conditions. Transport services could be provided for non-working and study trips in kilometres, regardless of municipal and provincial boundaries. So we increase fluency and everyday orientation, the experience of managing our own lives. These transport services could be provided within a period of up to one year instead of one month. The new issue is the law’s training and support, the service of which would be given to a disabled person, his family or others close to him in life-changing situations and learning different skills. For example, an independent young person or disabled person would be supported by the service for independent living and mobility. From the point of view of children and their families, the role of free early childhood education in training and support is essential. Today, free early childhood education has only been a part of children in the fields covered by the Act on Disability, and other families have paid a normal customer fee. In the future, the service would be organised in different ways for disabled children who, on the basis of an assessment of the need for services, would be required to provide early childhood education as an inclusive activity. This will therefore affect why, in this context, we are now also amending the early childhood education law. As a new focus also on the share of daytime activities, the service would enable inclusion for disabled people who need demanding social interaction and inclusion security, a functional service. The service would mainly correspond to current daytime activities and similar activities under the Disability Services Act, which are now organised under the Disability Act, but it would also include transport under the Act in the future. Free of charge for services. Disability services would remain largely free of charge, in line with current legislation. Free-of-charge services are regulated in customer fees legislation, which is also becoming a new law for Parliament this autumn. In this reform, Mr President, not only are two laws coordinated, but the aim is to modernise and update the legislation, to make it suitable for the current service system and the needs of various people with disabilities. This also, of course, involves an increase in the costs of some services and correspondingly the savings targets of the Government Programme in connection with the reduction of the tasks and obligations of municipalities, which have already been pursued by more than one government. Despite the saving objective, the main objectives of the reform have been retained as regards equality, inclusion and access to services as appropriate. Much has been done about the original savings target, which was more than EUR 60 million on the basis of the Government Programme negotiations. Savings measures have been removed from the proposal which would be weakened from the customer's point of view. The reform is expected to reduce government expenditure on municipalities' activities by practically EUR 15.3 million. It has been estimated that these changes will take place in the preparation process in such a way that they do not undermine the services, but simply change the way in which the services are organised. Correspondingly, additional resources will be allocated to support housing, personal assistance, training, short-term care and daytime activities. The State will increase the funding of the provinces by EUR 6.5 million in relation to the current situation. Correspondingly, Kela's expenditure would increase by EUR 4 million due to increased outpatient care. In the past, a law has been presented on the waiver of disability deductions and the allocation of their funds to the development of disability services. That money has now been targeted in the amendments to this law. The increase in government and municipal tax revenues resulting from the depreciation of the disability reduction, estimated at around 26 million, will be allocated to the reform of disability services and to the achievement of this other savings target. This has made it possible to reduce the need for savings on disability services. I would like to add, Mr President, that this disability service law is linked to the customer and patient law under preparation, the so-called IMO law, which has also been in place for years. This should include the current provisions of the Act on Mental Impairment on Special Care and Restriction Measures, which are independent of will. The new customer fee law under preparation also contains important provisions for disability services. The aim is for this new Act on Disability Services to enter into force and the responsibility for organising disability services to be transferred from municipalities to regions on 1 January 2021 at the same time as the social welfare reform came into force. This law is therefore linked to social reform, as is of course the case with many other substantive laws that will change to stronger organisational responsibility in line with the world of social reform. Mr President! This proposal has been awaited for a long time and I would like to express my warm thanks to our partners, especially the organisations of the disabled, who have made an uncompromising contribution, as well as to the experts involved in drafting the law. The new legislation will allow people with disabilities to become more involved in society and be able to act independently through the necessary support. This is strongly in line with the principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I would also like to say that this was also the aim of liquidator Kalle Könkkölä when he made his proposal in 2016 in support of the preparation. With this presentation At the same time, the Sipilä government also respects Kalle Könkkölä’s valuable life work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u195	Let's open up the conversation. Want some debatt? — Open the debate. Those who wish to speak in the debate will press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u196	Mr President! I am very pleased, Minister, that there are many good suggestions for improvement in this proposal. I am particularly pleased, among other things, that the methods of organising this personal assistance are being strengthened and that no one can be forced to become an employer, that this too is becoming clearer in this regard. And another thing that is very positive is that free early childhood education as part of the training and support will have equal access to all the disabled children who need this. On the other hand, I am also concerned that, at the same time, this draft law undermines subjective rights and legal certainty. This then relates to this subjective right to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court, which would require an appeal. And, as we know, often the Supreme Administrative Court has been difficult to guarantee legal protection for people with disabilities in the final analysis, and now this is going to deteriorate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u197	Mr President! Minister, I too thank you for this bill and thank the Greens for your fine words, my dear colleague Kalle. In memory of Könkkölä. I have a few questions about this bill. In this regard, the rapporteurs propose a few improvements. They believe, for example, that persons who are unable to define the content and manner of carrying out the assistance they need should also have the right to personal assistance and they also need advice in it, because here the law says that the provision of personal assistance requires the disabled person to have the resources to define the content of the assistance and the manner in which it is implemented. I'd be interested to hear how the minister feels about this feedback. Similarly, many commentators consider that living in a private home for a disabled person should always be the preferred option.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u198	Mr President! It is quite excellent that, in the context of the reform of the Disability Services Act, Article 13 of the Act on customer fees for early childhood education should apply. A new article will now be added to ensure that day care is free of charge for a child who participates in early childhood education as part of the training and support provided for in Article 7 of the Disability Services Act. This has been estimated to save families of special children some EUR 1.6 million in customer fees for early childhood education. This is a really great change, and I thank the Minister for that. Moreover, it is an excellent thing that this Disability Services Act is based on maintaining the special services of people with disabilities free of charge. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u199	Mr President! A new Act on Disability Services has long been awaited. Thank you to the Minister for having this before us, and thank you also for your appreciation for Kalle Könkkölä's life's work. This is a very broad law, and there are a lot of things here. These changes in transport services seemed reasonable to me because the current practice of only 18 journeys per month is far too small. People with disabilities must be provided with good services and participation in all situations, whether they are employed by their personal assistants themselves or, on the other hand, they received these services from the municipality or apparently from the region according to this proposal. In fact, I would like to ask in this connection: does this law also work in the world that we do not immediately have provinces? There is a great deal of urgency in this way, and this has long been expected to improve the services of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u200	Mr President! I also agree with these thanks on the basis of the law in terms of inclusion, self-determination, the UN Convention and so on. Indeed, for years this law has been both hoped for and prepared, and it is good that we are here. I'm sure everyone here is united, and society is broadly in agreement with this, Kalle. Respect for the spirit and goal of Könkkölä's life's work. When I had a little discussion with the organisations, even on the basis of these statements, two things came up from there in particular. The second is something that we cannot influence by law, but by debate, yes, and that is still the attitude. Perhaps, however, it is confusing that the main problem in our society seems to be the attitudes of society. I will talk about them a little more precisely in my speech, by way of examples. But then the other is the role of KHO, which has already been raised by Mr Kiljunen, in the future. I would have liked to have heard this opening, if the Minister still had the opportunity and the opportunity to do so for a while, why did we now end up with this proposal that was concluded? Yes, there are points of view in both directions, but quite a few seem to be concerned about this complaint now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u201	Madam President! I too would like to express my thanks for the fact that the inclusion and self-determination of people with disabilities in this law has been raised to the level of today's demands and that in general the law no longer departs from the medical diagnosis-based concept but from the individuality of a person. There are a number of changes here that I would like to ask about along the way, but at this point I would like to draw attention to the customer process in which you are presenting a new customer plan that would cover the needs of a disabled person and then be prepared at regional level. It is certainly very necessary and good. I would like to ask how we are going to ensure that the future competence of the social welfare authorities is adequate in all regions in order to promote this. Last but not least, I would like to say that it is wonderful that you have secured the employer model of a disabled person but have brought in a volunteer which allows for individuality and flexibility. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u202	Mr President! I would like to ask you about another problem that has arisen here. It's this client's legal protection in a competitive situation. It has still not been possible to resolve this situation. We also have a citizens' initiative in this regard, which relates to the procurement law. Now I would like to ask the Minister about this citizens' initiative. Not for sale and then for this law, where we would already have had the opportunity to address the problems raised by the citizens' initiative. Many organisations and disability organisations and various bodies have pointed out that the Procurement Act does not adequately address the issues of legal protection for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u203	Minister Saarikko, reply, 2 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u204	Mr President! I think that this debate reflects in a great way the common view of the general principle chosen by the law. First of all, it is equality, which means that in relation to the two separate laws that exist today, there may be situations where a single disabled citizen feels that this change weakened my position, and a single disabled, another citizen who says that this law improved my present state. But that is what it is always about doing equality, that if we genuinely leave the needs of the services and not the medical diagnosis which has now been capable of creating interlopers between the Act on Disadvantage and the Act on Disabled Persons, we will end up in a situation where equality means genuine need-orientation of the services. I personally am delighted that this main principle is supported, as well as the genuine need for services and also the Euro-denominated balance made by law, that, as a functional change, it has been possible to estimate the production of imputed savings in the long term, and also that the main principle already introduced in this House is the effect of the abolition of disability, which brings more power to the people most in need of social support. This proposal is based on the fact that it will enter into force at the same time as the reform of social security and has been written in the light of these structures. Social care resources are also relevant to regional reform. I believe that the stronger organisers' responsibilities, which the provinces undoubtedly have alongside a small community, are a significant improvement, for example, in the rare illness and disability of a living person, when social welfare resources are combined with wider responsibilities. Finally, Mr President, on this citizens' initiative: Parliament makes independent decisions, but I myself, as Minister of Responsibility, have considered that it would perhaps be natural to deal with this citizens' initiative in the same context as this law. It is entirely in the hands of the committee and it is within your discretion, but I would see that it is worth considering the joint actors, the stakeholders and the impact assessments of the law at the same time. The fact that the amendment would only be made to the Disability Services Act would in itself create a contradiction between mental health or other long-term ill people using long-term housing services. We are dealing with the problems of procurement law for people other than people with disabilities and, above all, there is a need for greater awareness of competitionrs and knowledge on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u205	Mr President! I would like to ask one more question, Minister: you yourself referred to this self-determination law and the reform of social and health care. After all, this self-determination law is still under preparation in the Ministry, and I would have asked you that, now that this law has been so closely linked to these other two, namely self-determination and that legislation and the reform of social welfare and health care, what will happen in this context if these things do not proceed in the desired way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u206	Minister Saarikko, 1 minute, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u207	Mr President! The question is so important and essential to the work of the committee that I am happy to answer it. That is what we have been thinking about. The original idea was to import the so-called IMO, i.e. the customer and patient law, at the same time as the Disability Services Act. Since it is so challenging from the point of view of fundamental rights that it has already come across the Constitutional Committee once in the last parliamentary term, we still needed a time-out for its preparation, but we decided that the disability service law should not be blocked as a result. Since the entry into force of the Disability Services Act until 21 gives the necessary time window that unless this government does in the meantime, it is assumed that, regardless of the government base, self-determination legislation will be introduced here as quickly as possible, because I have not seen anyone in Finland object to the starting points of the law that would clarify, for example, the measures to restrict people in the most vulnerable positions and, at the same time, the rights and obligations of staff in these very sensitive situations. In other words, the laws are tied together, but this does not prevent the treatment of the Disability Services Act, as a separate law on enforcement can be drawn up when the so-called IMO law is brought here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u208	And now we go to the list of speakers, Mr Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u209	Mr President! There is a proposal for a new disability service law. It must ensure good everyday life and inclusion for people with disabilities. The law must comply with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and treat the various categories of persons with disabilities equally. However, it is important that the disability not only determines services but also individual needs. The essential services must be free of charge. Services must also ensure accessibility and enable participation in work and hobbies. I would also like to see a stronger role in the law in promoting plain language literature. It is estimated that as many as 650,000 people need plain language. The status of disabled children must be guaranteed by law. The institutional housing of disabled children has increased, as families are now not receiving enough support and home-based services. There's no place for a child in an institution. Services for disabled children must be provided by law. For those who cannot, for one reason or another, live in their homes, domestic nursing homes are needed instead of institutions. The "Operation Independent Life" project of disability organisations highlights the disability's own ability to function and the related personal assistance. It is important that the employer model for personal assistance is in place for everyone wishing to do so, and that the municipality or province should provide support and assistance to the employer’s obligations. Services providing assistance to people with disabilities must also be the responsibility of society if the disabled person wishes not to be an employer himself. Every severely disabled person must have an assistant in daily routines: dressing, eating, moving, washing, hobbies, work and studies. The views and wishes of the disabled and his/her loved ones about the services must be listened to. The law also requires supporting decision-making for a disabled person who needs help in making decisions on the big issues of life. The citizens' initiative, not for sale, is still being discussed by Parliament. This initiative needs the support and protection of all of us. The most vulnerable, those in need of life-long housing services, need familiar nurses and a safe environment. It is not sustainable every few years to compete with a service provider, when the carers change overnight. We must bring the citizens' initiative into force. The Procurement Act requires a record that the essential services of sensitive people do not need to be competitive. Even the EU does not require competitive tendering. A personal budget for the disabled may be a solution, but it must also be ensured that the budget covers all individual needs: the budget needs to be flexible and sufficiently large. Necessary care and care are important, as are the association, community, and warmth of people. I just read a book in which a difficult young person’s mother tells about her experiences. It was important for young people who were unable to exercise to live in a homelike way, but together. They wanted to share food, coffee and game moments in the common space and their own room. When you have to turn the side at night, the nurse must be there to help. The world of computers offers opportunities to do creative work, stories and paintings even if the hands do not work. As neighbors, we have a duty to ensure that the weakest are taken care of. The law must guarantee legal protection for people with disabilities and subjective access to services. We also have a lot of shortcomings in services today. Improvements are needed, inter alia, in the field of multi-professional social work and disability social work. One element supporting freedom and well-being is the transport services provided by society with a accessible vehicle suitable for disabled people. The long-term 18 taxi rides per month are far too few. It is important that the area of use of transport services be extended to work, study and inclusive activities. This whole piece of legislation is huge. Its details still need to be carefully examined, but it is already clear that there is something to be corrected. According to disability organisations, the legal protection of subjective rights will be undermined, as appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court would require a right of appeal. This is unacceptable. The original savings target for the reform, EUR 61 million, has decreased to around EUR 15 million. But why do we want to save the weakest? The government has disciplined the poor, such as guaranteed pensioners, low incomes and those who use a lot of medicines anyway. Rather, the fair enforcement of the Disability Services Act requires additional resources. A new Act on Disability Services is needed even if the government's social welfare bill falls. The government anticipates the role of the province in the proposal, but services improving the rights of people with disabilities must now be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u210	Madam President! This has already been mentioned in various speeches, and even during the debatation, details of the disability service law proposed by the government have been raised. I have been a practical doctor for over three decades, and most of this time I have been responsible for the health and medical care of people with mental disabilities in the region. Against this background, I was thinking of raising a few important points in this bill. As has already been heard, the bill combines the previous Act on Disability Services and the Act on Mental Impairment. The purpose of the law is to put all people who are limited by various injuries on the same line, regardless of their diagnosis. Furthermore, the law aims to ensure that these different types of disabled people are as equal as possible to all other citizens on everyday life and holidays, housing, mobility, leisure and ordinary life. This is what is particularly important in the draft law: if a disability or illness restricts the participation of a person in life and society, society will meet with the provision of special services for the disabled free of charge, which will enable them to carry out their normal activities in the same way as other citizens can. This applies, for example, to the personal assistant we heard earlier. Mr President! Article 3 of the draft law is also significant. Article 1 begins with: ‘Service needs assessmentand service planning,implementationandimplementationmonitoring with a disabled person. “ This article and its explanatory statement highlight the fact that the opinion of a disabled person must always be taken into account when planning his or her services. The disabled person should be supported so that, regardless of any communication constraints, his or her opinion on the organisation of the services is taken into account. The new law will therefore also improve the participation of disabled people in the arrangement of their own lives. The bill also removes the concept of a person with severe disabilities. Today, this term, as it were, divides people with disabilities into different compartments. The purpose of the new law is that even in this respect, the diagnosis or the quality of the injury is not significant, but the need for assistance and support to determine precisely this individual need for assistance. Mr President! A few details. The disabled still retains the possibility of free-time transport, i.e. 18 journeys in one direction per month. In addition, the law makes it possible to travel to work or study, for example. The law provides an alternative to the fact that the service provider, or province, can make a car available to a disabled person. The new law does not set an upper or lower age limit for disabled persons to receive legal services. Thus, an elderly disabled person also receives his or her services when the conditions are met. There will also be other options for transport services. The law also includes provisions on short-term care to support the disabled family in coping with, for example, fatigue or a crisis situation. Short-term care may include home service, family care, support person’s help or housing. The purpose of disability training, as the Minister said, is to strengthen the strengths of the disabled person in such a way that he is able to live more independently and self-sufficient, for example. This is also based on the assessment that people with disabilities will be better off in the future and perhaps in the future savings will also be made in the long term. Mr President! Finally, I would like to point out that this is not a savings law, but a reform of the updating of the legislation which has been under way for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u211	Mr President! This Act on Disability Services and many of its proposals are very welcome and I am pleased that this bill is now being discussed, although it is tied up in this, in my view, rather uncertain progress in the reform of the Social and Health Act and in the implementation of the Regional Law. But I think that the many objectives set out in this bill are very much to be welcomed, and I think that if, for some reason, the law on social and regional affairs never comes to an end in this period, then the many things contained in this bill should be promoted. However, it should be added that the rapporteurs have found a number of points to be corrected in this draft law, which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will then have to pay attention to in its own expert consultations and study more closely. But as such I find it very commendable that the government has withdrawn its megalomantic savings originally presented to disability services during this period, and now the scale is much lower. For example, I welcome the fact that the deduction from disability has then been used to improve services for people with disabilities. I think that is justifiable. I also welcome the starting point for this legislation to be based on the need-driven nature of services for people with disabilities and on the specific aim of strengthening the participation and participation of people with disabilities in the society around them, rather than on a medical, diagnostic basis. The aim of supporting the independent performance and self-determination of a disabled person would certainly have been in line with the interests of Kalle Könkkölä, mentioned here on several occasions. The fact that efforts are being made to comply with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child are also issues that must be regarded as absolutely worthy of support. But I also raised the question of how to deal with this citizens' initiative. We've got this before the House, haven't we? A citizens' initiative, not for sale, specifically concerning housing services for disadvantaged people and their competitive tendering. I personally believe that it is desirable that we should be able to deal with this. Not for sale, if not now in the context of this law, at least very consecutively with this. I consider it absolutely important that this citizens' initiative should be dealt with during this period, because the fact that disabled people are forced to change their homes as a result of competitive tendering is by no means a situation in which, for example, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities referred to above is compatible with the situation and must be completely removed in Finland. Also in this bill and in connection with it, several commentators considered that living in their private home for disabled persons should always be the preferred option, and it was proposed that it be confirmed in the provision. It was also suggested that, in order to ensure equality, it is essential to ensure that public transport is accessible and that it should be ensured that the principle of public transport priority mentioned in this draft law does not de facto undermine the mobility of persons unable to use public transport. I also consider it important that the services provided by this proposal remain strong, subjective rights. However, budget-related services do not guarantee individual services that meet the needs of people with disabilities, and we know that people with disabilities are among the poorest in this society because most of them have never been in employment and cannot participate in it, so it is very important to maintain that services are strongly subjective rights. In his own speech, Mr Karimäki mentioned the need for literary literature in plain language, and I would like to raise it here myself. We already have about half a million Finns in Finland who need plain language to cope with the linguistic requirements of everyday life, and I would very much welcome the fact that, in the context of this law, people with disabilities would be able to obtain plain language literature and get through their everyday lives. In addition to people with disabilities, people with memory disorders and the elderly are people who benefit from plain language, and plain language is a means of preventing linguistic exclusion. Mr President! If there's still time: This bill proposes to supplement the customer process with changes to the Social Welfare Act, and in this context it should be noted that the current legal customer plans are not always drawn up or are not drawn up properly, to which, for example, the Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman has drawn attention and has stated that in this respect, current practices should be better. One of the concerns is how to ensure the customer's involvement in his own process if the customer plans are not carefully prepared. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u212	Mr President! Indeed, it is easy to agree with the general assessment and thanks for the fact that the government has now brought this law, which has already been drafted in the previous period, to Parliament and also to the hope that it will be dealt with in time. This starting point, starting with the need for services instead of diagnostics and different fundamental values of inclusion, sovereignty, is in line with modern society and perhaps with the image of the people that we want to express in such legislation. In this referral debate, I actually wanted to address two points when I am not part of this committee. In the last couple of weeks, I have had the opportunity to meet both the Actives of the Non-For Sale Citizens' Initiative and the representatives of the Invalid Union on its 80th anniversary tour, and in these discussions, when there has been a slightly more detailed debate on this bill, the general conclusion, unfortunately, is that perhaps our main problem lies in attitudes, perhaps not so much in the attitudes of individual individuals, but in such a general collective attitude, in the inability to empathise and settle in the position of another person, in this case a disabled person, and this is perhaps particularly reflected in the collective attitude of the public authorities. So I do not want to blame the individual for the task of the authority, but the actors who then comply with the legislation laid down by this Chamber in various ways. A few examples to raise: Of course, we have already had situations which have resulted from a previous amendment to the law, i.e. a taxi reform, which have been completely unsustainable for many people with disabilities. We have had a fine reform as such, a disability card, but to apply for it requires a personal email address, which, in turn, may not be quite possible for some persons entitled to the card in question. We have an aid loan which does not recognise, for example, collapsing aids that could fit in people's own vehicles or cars. Instead, we want to offer wheelchairs, for example, which always require the transport of disabled persons, which are therefore both more expensive for society and more complex for these people, and so on and so on. Well, we will not change attitudes in this Chamber, of course, but we will create the spirit by which this government activity takes place in society, and I hope that this spirit will also be dealt with in connection with this law. Then, of course, the second level is legislation and its implementation. The feedback as far as this organization field and the activists may be the most important is that we have decisions that will not come true. Of course, the most famous and saddest of these are many of the competition problems that have just been mentioned and which The citizens' initiative, not for sale, for its part and its example is trying to correct it. I therefore hope, Mr President, that, as the law now goes to committee, it might be possible for us to have this draft law attached to it. Not for sale - a popular initiative. There are, for example, a large number of people with disabilities who have collected these signatures for whom this is a very large demonstration of the functioning or failure of democracy. In other words, if we talk about inclusion and deal with the Disability Services Act and at the same time fail to deal with this citizens' initiative, then it is a very problematic message. When we come to the final stage of the law, I do think that this issue of social attitudes is possible and recognisable to some extent after the hearings. In other words, now that, for example, clarifications are being made on the part of the transport services and the ambiguities of certain points in the committee are being dismantled, perhaps it is also the right point to point out that we also recognise that the way in which these are being carried out is as consistent as possible and that the user's needs are being met, given that it is the basic spirit of this whole law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u213	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite excellent that, in the context of the reform of the Disability Services Act, Article 13 of the Act on customer fees for early childhood education should apply. A new article will now be added to ensure that day care is free of charge for a child who participates in early childhood education as part of the training and support provided by the Disability Services Act. This is estimated to save families of special children some EUR 1.6 million in customer fees for early childhood education. This is a really great change. Early childhood education is a good place for all children to practice knowledge and functional skills and social interaction. All free early childhood education starts now with special children, and that is right. It is good to move forward with ambition. It is an excellent thing that this law is based on the fact that special services for people with disabilities will remain free of charge. Mr President! The law on early childhood education fees is a pretty recent law. It entered into force one and a half years ago, in March 2017. Article 13 of the Act states that the day-care fee must be withheld or reduced if it jeopardises the conditions of the family's livelihood. A total of 35709 customer fees for early childhood education, i.e. the day care fee, ended up in the enforcement last year. I suspect that most of these are illegal invoices. They are provided by the municipality’s camper, the financial department, without having been discussed with the family by an early childhood education official and taking a decision to reduce or abolish the payment. It is such a tough thing if a family of children is put into enforcement because of day care fees that there must be a really good basis for it if the municipality does. Enforcement if the conditions of the family’s livelihood and the fulfilment of maintenance obligations are jeopardised. Even though the law changed then a year and a half ago and now we are changing it even a little better, the amount of early childhood education contributions sent to enforcement has not changed much. Prior to the entry into force of the Act in 2016, there were 37,792 landings for Voudi, and in the year of the entry into force of the Act, that is to say last year, the amount decreased only by around 2,000, i.e. the new Act has not had a significant impact on the functioning of municipalities. There will certainly also be families of special children who are also hard on livelihoods, because often in families of special children one parent has to work shorter hours at work, thereby also earning a lower salary, so that the family’s everyday life with a special child can go smoothly. In particular, it annoys me if people are not told of the possibility offered by the new law to apply for a reasonable or total non-recovery of the day care fee. I hope that this will be improved and that the Ministry will keep an eye on the way in which municipalities operate in line with the new Act on customer fees for early childhood education. Mr President! I also very much welcome Article 16 of this Disability Services Act. , which secures mobility support for disabled people, so that the use of their own car is also supported. Here I recently met a disabled young man who was in a wheelchair, and he had been on the rides of mere Invataks in the past. Now he had received support for the purchase of his own car when he got into this personal budget trial program, and his well-being had improved quite significantly. He pictured his life, saying that his freedom has increased, he himself gets to schedule when he goes out for hobbies, to the city, to visit errands, and so on. His personal activity and interaction with other people had increased. He is now allowed to do the same things as other people, like going to Motonet to buy motor oil. It should be noted that the freedom of people with disabilities to choose their services is fundamentally and extensively linked to the realisation of such human rights in everyday life, which appear to us, of course, but which they often lack. If a person does not have the freedom to define his or her own needs or to implement himself or his or her own services, he or she cannot speak of social inclusion. This is now going to be improved by this law. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u214	Mr President! The law on disability services, which has been prepared by this government for a long time, has finally entered the parliamentary process. I myself, through my own law firm, have had several assignments related to the old law on retardation and disability services. This piece of legislation is excellent, which has now been brought to the table. The old law on retardation and disability services have reached the end of their lives. Now we understand the various limitations of activity, disability, and our attitudes have changed with increased knowledge and research. The laws have been out of date. They contain provisions that have lived for their time, which do not meet the different needs of people with disabilities in different ways. What is essential is that, in the past, people with cognitive, neurological or communication-related functional limitations were excluded from the scope of the services only on the basis of a diagnosis, and it was these rights that were often the subject of different disputes and value discussions. This was very unfair and, I would not say, very unfair. It put disabled people in an unequal position. It is now possible to close this gap so that access to services is based on the ability of a disabled person to function. A functional capacity-based approach is a more equal way of assessing the need for services than a diagnosis-based one. The specific needs of children and young people are now being better taken into account. For example, families of disabled children receive individual help to live at home so that the child can live at home in very demanding situations. A young adult is supported by training and support to move to their own home, to their own life independently, and such services are increasingly being used. The autonomy of people with disabilities will be better taken into account and participation and inclusion will be increased. What is important is that the forthcoming regional reform takes place. Here some doubt it, the social and regional reform. I personally believe that it will happen. It is a good reform, it will transfer Finland to a whole new era, and then the provinces will take responsibility for these. What is important is that money and funds are sufficient so that people with disabilities across the country receive equal treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u215	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the praises expressed in connection with this bill. The legal basis for describing disability would be the relationship between the person and the possibility to participate in the surrounding society, not a medical diagnosis-based definition. This is an important and correct approach. The purpose of the Act is to ensure equality and inclusion of persons with disabilities and to prevent and eliminate obstacles that limit them. In addition, the aim of the Act is to support independent performance and self-determination and to ensure adequate and high-quality services in line with individual needs. It is important that everyone, everyone, in spite of their disability, can live as good and as full a life as possible. The Act provides essential services for the inclusion and equality of disabled persons and the provision of essential care. These services would include training and support, personal assistance, housing support, including support for accessible housing, short-term care and day-time activities, and mobility support. It is important that disabled persons themselves have the right to decide what, where, when and how to receive personal assistance and who will assist them. Care must also be taken to ensure that persons who are unable to define the content and manner of the assistance are also entitled to personal assistance and receive the advice they need. The threshold's personal help must be low. The proposal contains provisions on support for the participation and inclusion of disabled persons in the assessment of service needs, in the planning of services and in the monitoring and participation of implementation and implementation. The articles on inclusion and participation are important reforms in disability legislation and in line with the UN CRPD. In further preparation, questions relating to the use of the voice of children with disabilities and the organisation of lobbying should be further addressed. It is important that the special needs of disabled children and their families are taken into account. Moreover, special attention should be paid to the implementation of services for disabled children and young people. They must be implemented in such a way as to safeguard the well-being and development of the child and young people and to enable them to act on an equal footing with other children and young people. The Minister explained that the bill is tied to social and health care reform and regions. We must ensure that, if there is no progress in social and regional affairs, this legislation will continue to progress. There has also been a debate on the Non-For Sale Citizens' Initiative,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u216	Mr President! I asked for another floor when I forgot to say two things in the previous one. Number one: I can agree with Mr Mikkola's statement here, namely that this link with the social and regional reform, which the Minister has now emphasised strongly in connection with the move forwards of this Disability Services Act, should then be dismantled if it seems that the first one is not moving forward, and this will, in any case, take us forward, because it is absolutely a matter of independence. The second thing that I really wanted to share was when I spoke about the collective attitudes of society, which are visible even in official activities, is that I was very touched by the fact that the Secretary-General of the Paralympic Committee, Tero Kuorikoski, recently stated when the Committee on Education and Culture went to play sledding: ‘Value sports is changing people, moving cities and changing societies. “ And he used London as an example, which has changed from both the employment point of view and the various aspects of accessibility to more or less a different city since the Olympic Games. Apparently, the same has happened in Tokyo, for example. Perhaps when dealing with this law, at that interface, it is good to consider what are the things we can do as a society a little more widely, which will then help to ensure that this law, as if it were a good intention and perhaps even the right articles, actually come into force, because it requires things on this particular point of view. We all know that, especially here on the employment side, we have not been very successful in comparison in the Nordic countries. It would be great if we could move on there. This requires players other than the public sector alone. These are things that we can influence. In the spirit of Kiroikoski, it is worth considering the ‘outofthebox’ also in connection with this law. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u217	Mr President! The purpose of the law is to achieve equality in society for a disabled person in every way. Support for independent performance and the exercise of self-determination are also the purpose of the law. There are a lot of good things here, but as Mr Karimäki pointed out, there are also problems. It should be recalled that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has also been ratified in Finland. In this context, I would like to raise a few words about procurement law, tendering and rehabilitation. Competition for services should take account of the long-term importance of quality, as it often brings savings in the end. I am Kela's delegate to the Finns of Finland, just as I am represented by Meri. Our phones have been ringing a lot lately in connection with Kela’s operations. Complaints come particularly with regard to transport, which causes many beneficiaries difficulties in everyday life. Complaints also come from the fact that the customer has felt unfair. However, many issues have also been resolved well, and Kela's approach to the problem areas is mainly about finding solutions. There are also many problems that appear to be caused by Kela. An example of this is the failure of Kela transport. In this case, the main cause of the problems can be found in the Ministry's policies and not in Kela's activities. Kela often plays ball with the management of ordinary people’s affairs and political decisions. In this taxi case, Kela had a strong will to extend the transition period of the reform and gradually test its functionality in practice. This didn't happen to the Ministry, did it? General inflexibility and bureaucracy are often painful for people in distress. Kela tries to manage people’s affairs within the limits of the rules given to her best. Sometimes the concept of common sense and humanity does not fit in with all the solutions, and there is still much room for improvement here. Now that we are talking about competition, I would like to highlight an example of where competition is a problem and presents problems. It's Masku's Neuro Center, which had to go into this competition. It is the largest centre in Finland specialising in the rehabilitation of neurological diseases, the number one in Finland, when it comes to demanding institutional rehabilitation. In Kela's competition, Masku was scarcely lost to all other service providers — it was a very small money issue — because the criteria do not have quality in the first place but price. The Masku Neuro Centre is able to provide its services without any subcontracting. It's a state-of-the-art facility. Now you have to wait at least a year or even three and stay upright. Short-sighted action because the cheapest does not mean that it is the cheapest option in the long term. A non-for-sale citizens' initiative has also been raised in this Chamber. It is a very good initiative and everyone should get to know that initiative and wonder why it has been taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u218	Madam President! The application of two parallel laws, the law on mental disabilities and the old law on disability services has been difficult, and this overall reform has been taking place for a very long time. A broad-based working group has been working for two years from 2013 to 2015, under the leadership of liquidator Kalle Könkkölä, who must be thanked for his entire life's work, as he has done in this regard. When it comes to mental retardation services and the law of mental disability, it is also close to my sister having Down syndrome and so, of course, I have been watching how these things are handled in Finland throughout her life. Yes, I am pleased that such an overall reform will be made clearer and clearer in the legal framework in which all these issues will be dealt with. The most important thing is that people with disabilities retain subjective rights to essential special services. It is then that the ability to function is the criterion for access to the service and not the diagnosis. This, too, is what I have seen in discussions with the organisations for mental disabilities and also with the organisations for the disabled that it is considered to be better than the fact that the diagnosis is the basis for the diagnosis. The situation in the past has put people in a position of inequality, stressed the competence of doctors and unfortunately created situations or strong doubts that medical knowledge has not always been enough. Of these services, I would particularly like to highlight personal assistance and support for housing. These are issues that give the most feedback from different municipalities, that there are large differences between municipalities in how these matters are handled, for example in accessibility related to housing support. There has also been a media response to these organisations that when we go to the provinces of Finland, if this is how the central term can be used with the regional reform
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u219	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. 30 minutes are set aside for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the 11th item. Let's open a conversation. — Minister Vehviläinen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u220	Mr President! This change in legislation in the referral debate allows Hansel Oy and KL-Kuntahanto to merge. This change also contributes to the idea of functionally integrated public administration. There are many things in which the entire public administration — the state, the municipalities and their future provinces — can do much more together in a sensible and cost-effective way, and this is, of course, particularly justified in terms of the efficient use of our common tax resources. KL-Kuntahanna would be merged in a merger with Hansel Share Company. The ownership of the new Hansel Oy would be divided into 65 per cent of the company and 35 per cent of the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities. The State would retain control of the company. Parliamentary consent is always required when other owners enter a limited liability company wholly owned by the State. Hansel has been a major reformer of public procurement and developer of digital procurement services. For example, this is suitable for research procurements.fi website. This service, which has been in use for over a year, provides both citizens and the media with information on what, where and where the state acquires public funds. Companies, on the other hand, are informed about the market. The merger of Hansel and Municipal Procurement aims to increase public sector procurement skills and enhance procurement processes. This change will enable more coherent and up-to-date approaches to public tendering, which will facilitate the participation of all companies, including small ones, in public tenders. Smartly implemented framework agreements and regionally executed competitions make this possible. SMEs can also form groups through which they participate in larger procurement. The law on Hansel Oy is amended to allow municipalities, joint municipal authorities, the Evangelical Lutheran Church, the Orthodox Church and Keva as customers of the company. The clientele would be based on the voluntary nature of these entities. The municipality can therefore continue to manage the procurement itself if it so wishes. This amendment of the law is therefore possible, not mandatory. In Finland, the volume of public procurement is approximately EUR 35 billion per year. Last year's data total approximately EUR 1.2 billion in acquisitions of Hansel and Municipal Procurement. The majority of this acquisition commission for Hansel and Municipal Procurement is directed to sectors such as air travel, electricity, fuels, certain ict licences and vehicles. In this context, it may be worth noting that it is not so much the size of the organisation as a competitor that is important for SMEs and the market, but how to compete. Ultimately, it is a question of knowledge, i.e. the implementation of procurement, so that the market is used as widely as possible. This expertise in fusion is increasing. The law is meant to come into force on 1 January. OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1. I would also like to point out that the previous Hansel proposal is still under discussion in Parliament, which aims to change the use of procurement-related data and at the same time to expand the customer base so that future provinces can make use of Hansel's services if they so wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u221	Let's open a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u222	Mr President! When these public sector businesses are always organised and larger entities are sought, it is very often discussed how these arrangements will then affect the opportunities for SMEs to operate and offer to the public sector. I understand in that way that this arrangement obviously does not have any significant impact on how SMEs, small businesses, can participate in these possible tenders and activities. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u223	Would the Minister like to respond? One minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u224	Mr President! That is exactly what Mr Korhonen said. We know about this, and in this consultation the Finnish Entrepreneurs also came here to assess whether this would affect. But I would like to point out that, when it comes to procurement, it is always a question of making it smart and competent, it is more essential than whether it is the author of the procurement. In other words, these framework agreements and, on the other hand, regional competitions will also help to ensure that the SME sector can also be involved. I therefore believe that, when it comes to finding that this is a merger, i.e. the municipal sector will be involved, this is not binding on the municipalities. It is worth remembering that this is voluntary for municipalities whether they want to use Hansel in large procurements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u225	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. 30 minutes are set aside for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is the 12th item. Conversation. — Minister Vehviläinen, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u226	Mr President! Finland is known worldwide for its good and open administration. The Finnish civil service acts responsibly and expertly. However, rapid change in the world, new phenomena and technological developments are also challenging the state administration, and ethical issues are increasingly being raised. For example, the draft report on information policy and artificial intelligence, which is now in the consultation, highlights the importance of ethical issues. Since 2014, there has been an advisory board on civil servants' ethical issues, but it has not yet had the basis for legislation, and that is what is being done here. The mission of the Advisory Board is to promote better management and coherence of civil servants' ethical issues in the state administration. The Advisory Board is attached to the Ministry of Finance, but it should be stressed that it is independent in its activities. This amendment to the Civil Service Act formalises the role and tasks of the Advisory Board. What, then, is civil service ethics? When it comes to the ethics of civil servants, it refers to the values and principles of officials and public authorities. Official ethics are not regulated by legal standards and its content is difficult to regulate legally. However, the obligation laid down in Article 15 of the Civil Service Act, for example, to retain confidence,is also one The activities of an official may be ethically inappropriate even if the official has acted in accordance with legal standards. Different ethical selection situations arise as part of normal everyday activities. In the vast majority of situations, the correct course of action is self-evident. There is also a fundamental element in ethical evaluation that there is not necessarily a single correct approach in different situations, but that people's subjective perceptions strongly influence the assessment of whether any activity is right or wrong. According to this proposal, it will be up to the Advisory Board of Officials (1) to take initiatives and make general recommendations on the ethics of civil servants, 2) to issue opinions on ethical issues and to support decision-making at the request of government agencies, and 3) to carry out the tasks assigned by the Ministry of Finance in relation to ethical issues. The opinions and recommendations of the Advisory Board are of a consultative nature and are not legally binding. It is not up to the Advisory Board to act as a dispute resolution or complaint body. To date, two different recommendations have been issued by the Advisory Board on Civil Service Ethics. The second relates to social media: in 2016, a recommendation was issued on civil servants in social media, i.e. a set of principles that the official would do well to remember when working there on the social media side. The second recommendation related to the measures to be taken when ministers, state secretaries and special assistants move to other tasks. Here in Parliament, in 2016, the law on carnival was adopted, and the background work of the Civil Service Ethical Advisory Board was relevant to this toughness legislation at the time. It should be noted that if and when Parliament now provides for this statutory advisory body for civil servants, it may be thought that, for example, the handling and implementation of qualifying contracts could be on the working list in the negotiating board. In this context, I would like to say a very brief word about the lobby register. In September, I was handed over a report on the international models of the lobby register, and I would like to say that if there is to be a lobby register in Finland, I think it must be done carefully in the coming months and only the next Parliament will be able to take a position on it. There are a wide range of questions to be resolved as to who would be affected by the lobby register, whether it affects government officials, whether it affects parliamentarians and so on, but it is important that we also start to discuss this more publicly. But I would point out that the report that was handed over to me was models of various international examples. I personally think that it would be good for us to have one, and in the coming months I will act in accordance with the fact that such preparatory work can start.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u227	Madam President! The government proposal below looks pretty soft and maybe a little innocent. I was looking at different definitions of ethics here, and ethics is an area of research that examines morality and related issues, such as the principle of ethical action, which is right and wrong, good life, and the nature of values and ethical claims. In this very short Government proposal, I looked at the kind of feedback this had received during the consultation and it is stated here that these have been taken into account in the further preparation of the Government's proposal, but I was left to think, for example, about the views of the Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman on ethical guidelines and statements — here I understand that, even if they were recommendations, they are nevertheless guidelines or contributions — and the Parliamentary Ombudsman notes that there is a need to avoid any confusion between the obligations imposed directly by legislation and such guidelines. Furthermore, the Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman questions the need for such separate formations to be required from the point of view of civil service ethics. This is very unclear. At first, I thought that Yaha, this was a nice thing, and then I began to look into this matter and I also noticed that the composition of the negotiating board, that is, who should be there, and the tasks are further regulated — by regulation. In other words, we will not even know what these tasks are in the legislation now. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for example, tasks should, for example, be regulated at the level of the law and strictly and precisely, and somehow it seems to me that what kind of life guidelines and recommendations this conclave will begin to give. This is the Minister. The Vehviläinen pointed out that if you get certain benefits, for example, okay, it may be some abuse of trust, it is easy to solve, but when you go outside, then just a moment, a moment, a moment. Is this so that we begin to share perhaps such recommendations on the basis of warnings, which is a good official, what should he think? I'm not sure what's really going on here. Now I would like an answer from the Minister, which is what this is really needed for and why this composition is not provided for in more detail by law. I know that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is extremely congested, but although this seems innocent, there are many problems here and I ask why it has not been thought, for example, that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should be requested. I am sincerely asking this because, however, this is a question of matters in which we are in a relationship and there is permanence and grounds for dismissal. This is very unclear as to what kind of moral guard collage is now becoming.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u228	Minister Vehviläinen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u229	Mr President! To Mr Sea's comments: I also drew attention to the fact that, in this brief proposal, we also had an assessment of this, that when we already have the law and the standards of the law, how does this view it react to it? Well, the law is always clear, you know what it is, but I'm still defending the procedure. In fact, when 2013 started to do this, first on an informal basis, and we have not had a legal basis for this negotiating board, 2014 started the first negotiating board, so it has actually had this kind of recommendation making. It is difficult to imagine, for example, that even if social media guidelines for officials are in the legislation. But it is true that we need to adjust more closely. This is a very brief task in this piece of legislation, and it must be stated in more detail in the regulation as to what is at stake. With regard to this composition, it has been hoped that the composition will be diverse, that there will be representatives of ministries, agencies, and this has now been done by the state labour market leader, the retired Teuvo Forestfield. I have considered that this composition, which has been diverse, has been very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u230	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. We have 30 minutes for this referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within this time period, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the 13th item. Conversation. — Minister Berner, please give a presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u231	Madam President! The European Union's internal market is built on the free movement of people and goods. Finnish families can take a car trip to Europe during summer holidays, and other EU citizens can head here. Similarly, Finns can buy their vehicles from another Member State and bring them here. These freedoms contribute to the well-being of Europeans. However, it is important that the administrative formalities supporting mobility are smooth and that any abuses are taken into account. In order to achieve this, it is essential that information flows between authorities. For this reason, the Government proposes that Finland accede to the European Agreement on the Information System for Vehicles and Driving Licences. The Agreement concerns the exchange of information between the central authorities responsible for the registration of the parties on vehicles and driving rights. The aim of the information exchange system is to ensure the up-to-date and reliable registers of States Parties, to promote the prevention and investigation of driving rights and vehicle-related crime, and to improve the efficiency of the administration of States Parties by providing the necessary information quickly and effectively. Finland already uses the information exchange system partly under EU regulation. However, accession to the agreement will allow for better exchange of information and an opportunity to contribute to the further development of the system. Madam President! The EUCARIS agreement and the legislation applicable in Finland do not allow for free browsing rights, but only on the basis of a targeted request. The implementation of data protection and information security has been comprehensively ensured in the agreement. If national regulation is more stringent in this respect than in the agreement, national regulation will apply to the processing of data. Within the framework of the system, the data subject's data may only be transmitted by the data controllers for the purposes set out in the contract. According to the agreement, the issuing authority must take into account the accuracy of the information to be provided and whether the information is necessary or of a common dimension in relation to the purpose for which it is disclosed. The registry authorities shall also take the necessary technical and organisational measures to ensure security of information within the scope of the Agreement. In particular, measures must be taken to prevent unauthorised access to information. Madam President! In the course of the consultation, there was broad support from the authors of the opinion, so I hope that the smooth handling of accession can also be promoted in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u232	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u233	Mr President! This government proposal would bring into force the agreement on the European Vehicle and Driving Licence Information System. Finland already uses some of the services of the EUCARIS system under European Union law. However, if the State wishes to use all the services of the system, it must accede to the agreement. The aim of the proposal is that Finland will be able to improve the exchange of information on driving licences and vehicles with European authorities in the future. This will reduce the administrative burden and prevent and clarify the ambiguities. Finland already uses some EUCARIS services under Union law. In order for Finland to be able to use all services, Finland is proposed to accede to the EUCARIS Agreement. Therefore, EUCARIS is not used by citizens or companies but by public authorities. I think that Finland should definitely be part of this agreement. Mr President! Used cars are imported into Finland from other countries. The Mileage service provided by the agreement makes it possible to determine the odometer history of imported vehicles used in the importing country. Currently, cross-border data exchange on odometer readings is not yet common, so it has been very rare to be caught when a vehicle is imported. I believe that the acceptance of this agreement will improve the risk of being caught for counterfeiting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u234	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Berner very much for this presentation and thank him for coming to us as a government proposal. The Government's proposal therefore gives effect to the agreement on a European vehicle and driving licence system, and it concerns the exchange of information between the central authorities responsible for the registration of the parties on vehicles and driving rights. The aim is to promote the fight against and investigate crime related to driving rights and vehicles and to improve the efficiency of the administration of States Parties by providing rapid and effective information. The agreement also provides more effective possibilities for authorities issuing driving licences to compare driving licence data with registers in other countries. Information on foreign registers of driving rights could therefore be more easily available in the future for the monitoring of driving rights on the road. This also helps to make it easier at the border to check that cars, for example stolen cars, are not imported or exported from the country. This can also be monitored more easily at the border. In my opinion, it is also very important that the agreement also guarantees citizens' data protection and information security rights in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u235	Madam President! I would also like to thank the Minister for this proposal. This government proposal came into this Chamber and then goes to committee in due course. Indeed, Finland is already part of this EUCARIS system in some respects, as Mrs Kulmala has rightly said. Of course, if we want all the services we can get there, it is important to join the system. It will indeed be possible to determine the mobility of second-hand cars in Europe. Today and apparently in the future, there will be quite significant quantities of cars in Finland. It will then be possible to verify the type of cars they are and whether the information, which cars customers have, is certainly the correct information. All in all, freedom of movement means, of course, that information is moving, but it is a good thing, especially in this area of driving licences, that the information on these driving licences is moving across borders between European countries. It facilitates the operation of public authorities and the verification of people's mobility and also the definition of the right to drive: whether the right to drive is valid or not. In these areas, this mobility of information on driving licences is an important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u236	Madam President! As has already been said in this Chamber, this government proposal will put into effect the agreement on the European Vehicle and Driving Licence Information System. This Agreement concerns the exchange of information between the central authorities responsible for the registration of the Parties on vehicles and driving rights. This proposal implements the Government Programme Digitalisation of the Public Services Point Project, which is, of course, strongly behind it. What does this mean in practice? Indeed, the proposal confirms the EUCARIS agreement on the exchange of information between authorities on driving licences and vehicle data. It is good to take into account what has already been said in this Chamber that Finland already uses some of these EUCARIS services under Union law, and in order for Finland to be able to use all these services in the future, it is proposed that Finland join the EUCARIS agreement now. What does the EU do? The EU obliges the exchange of information between Member States, and EUCARIS provides Finland with a suitable framework for action among the authorities in the future. In addition to the obvious benefits of real-time information, access to registers in other countries quickly facilitates, among other things, the clearing up of scams in the vehicle trade and the informal economy. Not only have the colleagues in this Chamber today received only positive feedback on this government proposal, but the consultation also strongly supported this agreement. I would also like to state myself that I am in favour of all forms of enhanced cooperation between the authorities to improve supervision, and that is what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u237	Madam President! This accession to EUCARIS is part of the Government Programme Digitalisation of Public Services, thus contributing to digitalisation and smoothing of services. In the EUCARIS agreement, services of particular benefit to Finland include extensive vehicle, owner and holder information, which would therefore be available in real time. An improvement to the current situation would be that the information is available from all the contracting countries and that the police are also entitled to make inquiries. This new procedure will streamline and speed up the functioning of the authorities and real time will ensure that the information monitored is up-to-date, unlike today. The performance is good and welcome. I am in favour of adopting it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u238	Madam President! Indeed, this proposal would bring into force the agreement on the European Vehicle and Driving Licence Information System, the EUCARIS agreement. This is precisely what will ensure the timeliness and reliability of the register and will contribute to the fight against crime related to driving rights and vehicles. There is quite a lot of informal information that these meters, vehicle gauges, mileometers, are being modified, distorted. After all, Germany has now decided not to ban diesel cars from entering cities, but to promote the installation of catalytic converters. Those cars are still being imported from Germany and a little from other countries too. It is really important to know whether or not the car has been stolen and what its history is. This is a very important issue. We are quite dependent on car imports, and in that sense it is important to join this EUCARIS.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u239	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. Another 30 minutes will be reserved here for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is the 14th item. — Minister Berner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u240	Madam President! The main objective of the Transport Services Act is to streamline the regulation of the transport sector. We want modern and enabling regulation in Finland. Legislation must support the exploitation of digitalisation, not prevent it. In order to achieve this objective, it is important that we make full use of the opportunities offered to us by international regulation. The present proposal proposes Finland's accession to the UN Additional Protocol, which complements the agreement on a freight contract for road transport. The Additional Protocol allows the use of electronic transport documents for international carriage by road between Contracting States, while until now the Agreement covers only paper documents. At the same time, the Road Transport Contract Act would be amended to take account of these new possibilities brought about by the Additional Protocol. The proposal promotes the digitalisation of the logistics sector. Getting information from paper to electronic form is a prerequisite for wider digitalisation of the logistics sector. It is the first step towards better use of data in the transport chain. In the future, when the information is more and more in electronic form, it can make it easier to use it in the future to create more flexible services or to speed up control by the authorities. Madam President! Finland's accession to the Additional Protocol is highly awaited by the industry. I therefore hope that this issue can be dealt with quickly and that accession can be confirmed as a matter of urgency. In this way, we can provide Finnish operators with an environment that supports their digitalisation measures and thus strengthens their position in international competition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u241	Now to the list of speakers, Mr Kulmala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u242	Mr President! This proposal would bring into force the Additional Protocol to the Convention on an electronic transport document on a freight contract to be used for the international carriage of goods by road. The Road Transport Contract Act applies not only to international transport but also to domestic transport. The aim of this proposal is to implement an additional protocol on eCMR in Finland. In addition, the objective is to promote the digitisation of logistics in domestic transport by allowing the use of electronic transport documents at the level of the law. I welcome the introduction of electronic transport documents, although it would be good to have a paper version of the transport of dangerous goods in accordance with the requirements of the legislation in force in the transport sector. This is justified by the fact that when such a vehicle is involved in an accident, dangerous substances are often first detected on the vehicle's markings. If marked only in front and rear of the vehicle with an orange rectangular identifier without numbering, it does not contain any other information on the substance being transported. When rescue personnel arrive, it is important to have information on the material being transported as soon as possible. The easiest way to find this is for them to pick up the phone. The information can then be found on the inside of the vehicle as a paper version according to current regulations. Mr President! I think it would be a good idea for the transport of dangerous goods to continue to find information on cargo not only in the electronic version but also in the paper version, but these ADRs are international regulations, not just national ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u243	Madam President! This is a long-awaited and long-awaited government proposal, and thank you for having it here today. Finally, the transport sector is moving forward with the things it wants to do. And I can say that, over the years, I have been in the Committee on Transport and Communications that several meetings have referred to this matter and hoped that the electronic transport document would also be introduced in Finland. This has been hoped for, among other things, in the debate on cabotage legislation and related issues. This is something that has been wanted when we talk about combating the shadow economy. This government proposal also rejects the shadow economy. The aim of the Government proposal is to promote the digitalisation of the logistics sector. As far as I am concerned, it is very good that the information is then in electronic form. They will then be up to date and will be able to follow them in the future. All in all, this government proposal is very much to be welcomed and I hope that the committee will also have a unanimous vote and that it will be possible to move the matter forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u244	Madam President! The CMR is an old and international agreement that has been updated over the years. I think it is the case that 1956 is the first contract to be concluded, and this is the international transport document. The electronic transport document has indeed been wanted for several years, and it is great that it will finally be updated in Finland. It facilitates international transport and monitoring. The grey economy, as has been mentioned here, can be combated. And in general, if this coming of digitalisation somewhere makes work easier, this type of things in heavy traffic. In domestic transport, this issue will probably be further developed and paper-based transport documents will still remain on the road, but I hope that this eCMR will come into force as soon as possible in international transport policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u245	Madam President! Indeed, we are now discussing the adoption and entry into force of the Additional Protocol on an electronic transport document to an international contract for the carriage of goods by road and the proposal for a law amending the law on the carriage of goods by road. In practice, therefore, this means enabling the introduction of an electronic transport document for international freight transport by the adoption of an additional protocol to the international agreement. This use of the electronic transport document will not be compulsory and companies themselves can agree to use it. And according to the perception that I myself have also received from various transport companies, larger companies tend to want to invest in the electrification of transport documents, despite the costs, because this electronic transport document will always reduce those errors and also bring efficiency to that work. The second thing is that the feedback has also been similar to the fact that perhaps in principle smaller companies have less willingness to invest in this investment. Of course, the electronic transport document can also be used for domestic transport, as has already been pointed out in this debate. Then, with regard to this grey economy and the eradication of the black economy — because in all the legislation in which we can eradicate the black economy, we simply have to do so — this electronic transport document has been driven as one of the means of combating the black economy in the freight transport sector in previous years in different working groups and in different networks. And it is indeed the wish of the transport sector itself that this electronic transport document will now become a reality. We have also kept this electronic transport document on the agenda of my party during the dismantling of national cabotage legislation. And so briefly I could conclude by saying that, as cabotage can be better controlled, better information on border crossings, better information on incidents of accidents, better control of taxes and other transport charges, it is simply in the interests of Finland and it is in the interests of Parliament, and we need to make real rapid progress in committee work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u246	Madam President! This introduction of the electronic transport document is a welcome project to promote the efforts of the Government Programme to digitise public services. This is a good step forward. It will contribute to the functioning of the transport sector and potentially improve its competitiveness. The electronic transport document has been wanted for a long time in the transport sector, as we have heard here, and the benefits are obvious in terms of efficiency and the fight against the black economy. Joining the Additional Protocol and making the electronic transport document possible is a good project, and I hope that it will progress rapidly here in Parliament's legislative process.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u247	Mr President! When the minister introduced this to me, it reminded me of my youth. In the 1990s, I was a traffic assistant at Finnexpress Oy and ASG Oy. They don't exist anymore. I vividly remember how I handwritten transport manifests and passports here in the Nordic countries as well. You don't need those passports anymore, do you? Many times the drivers then waited in line to get the manifests and passports after the load was loaded, and it was very busy and it was very busy. Then they were going to get to the Southport for the ships, and then there was a traffic attendant in a hurry when I was writing them. This is great that progress is being made, but I feel that this has already been and is still here in the early 1990s. When I was just remembering, I still remember that when the machine took the elevator, the customs code was 85,103030 and the rest of the elevator was 33. I don't know how I still remember this, but those customs codes have been well remembered. That is where Mr Kulmala pointed out that it would also be good to find something on paper in these dangerous transports. Well, at least it should clearly show somewhere that, for example, the transport is not there now on some truck computer, that it would then be found in some separate electronic form. And of course, if it's on the driver's cell phone, then who knows the code there, which means it's all right. I was just thinking that these things take so long that man has gone into space, but sometimes we do not make these systems work. Another memory that comes to mind: I have been at the Local Register Office for a long time and I think that for ten years that electronic archive has been prepared, and it never seems to be completed. Another attempt has been launched, and hopefully this will work. There was also that control. Can this be used, for example, for a wish that relates to what I have heard that when domestic operators are monitored for driving days and rest hours, then it becomes a little distorted in a competitive situation with transport companies in other countries? Could this help to ensure that we are in the same competitive situation? This may also make it easier to control that traffic. But I'm glad we've made some progress since the '90s.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u248	Madam President! Indeed, for the 15 years that I have been in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, it is precisely the transport sector that has wanted this electronic transport document because of this competitive situation alone, because there are very unclear transport documents and there have been little driving around you, especially what has come up with those trucks from that part of Eastern Europe. In that sense, it is very important that the additional protocol on the electronic transport document enters into this agreement and indeed amends the road transport contract law. And indeed this is also important in the sense that we can also monitor what kind of goods are moving on the road. Of course, this will also have a cost-benefit effect. This is why we need to invest in these electronic systems, but I believe that, in the long term, this will, for example, be a very good thing for Finnish trucking, and competition on this side will become more honest and honest. Indeed, the use of an electronic transport document is not compulsory, but can be agreed by the parties instead of a paper document. Perhaps this should be the case in the future with an electronic freight document being a standard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u249	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. In this situation too, 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral debate. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is the 15th item. Conversation. — Minister Berner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u250	Madam President! I am pleased and honoured to present the third stage of the Transport Services Act. This is a major legal project which was originally decided to be carried out in stages because of its size. At this stage, I would like to express my thanks to Parliament for having had the courage to adopt an international law that makes reforms possible. The Government proposal now submitted to Parliament finalises the Transport Services Act and creates the conditions for the digitalisation of traffic and new business models. From the outset, the Transport Services Act has been based on the creation of a comprehensive package of transport services, thus providing flexibility and choice for transport users. Advanced transport services also help to reduce emissions. The Transport Services Act will build the future, the services of the future and new business conditions. The whole concept of the transport service, MaaS, is a Finnish innovation that has been an international success. The Transport Services Act allows MaaS. Our legislation has attracted a wide range of interest in EU countries and internationally, in particular with regard to groundbreaking information regulations. The proposal now being proposed will continue along this path. Its main objective is to enable customer-oriented transport services by creating operating conditions for the market. This will be achieved, inter alia, by facilitating the shortage of drivers. The proposal now before us contains the regulation of professional qualifications for heavy road transport, taxi drivers and maritime transport, as well as regulations relating to preparedness and public transport parking. The legislative proposal makes the numbering of the Transport Services Act running. To carry out the professional qualifications of heavy-duty road hauliers, a so-called test option would be introduced alongside existing training models. This will make it possible to take into account the background of professional qualifications, previous skills and language skills in a more flexible way. The change in the law is also the answer to Parliament's efforts. It called for a system to be developed to facilitate the task of heavy transport on the basis of accelerated training of the Defence Forces. The introduction of an experimental option in the Defence Forces would allow basic qualifications to be provided in a single model for all military drivers. With regard to seafaring qualifications, the requirements for manning and qualification of rescue services, police and customs vessels would be reduced. Their ships would be excluded from the general occupation and competence requirements in so far as they have their own training system approved by the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. This would allow, for example, the authorities themselves to familiarise themselves with their staff if they so wish and to tailor the training to the needs of their own authorities. The requirements for taxi drivers would also be reduced by giving up the measurement of the local knowledge of the taxi driver on the basis of an experiment as a condition for the driver’s licence. The initiative for change has come from the industry. The Transport Services Act has enabled the provision of taxi services to grow. However, the sector is currently suffering from a shortage of drivers, which limits its growth. The local knowledge test of the taxi driver reduces the number of potential workers entering the sector. The local knowledge test that tests memory today is not a meaningful measure of driver competence, because the driver has GPS systems at his disposal and the licence is primarily national. In addition, the aim of the new taxi regulation is to bring flexibility to its services by enabling the profession to be pursued throughout Finland. The test carried out in one area does not measure local knowledge comprehensively and does not necessarily demonstrate the driver's competence in the actual area of operation. It should be noted that the taxi operator would continue to be responsible for the driver’s adequacy, including in terms of local knowledge and choice of route. The taxi driver should also continue to pass a so-called theoretical test to measure the driver's other skills. The proposal proposes a new obligation to prepare for road transport. The obligation to prepare would apply to holders of passenger transport licences who have more than 15 buses or more than 15 heavy goods vehicles or combinations of vehicles at their disposal. However, the obligation would not apply to taxi services. This obligation is relatively light in terms of content and requires larger operators to plan their readiness, assess their risks and ensure the continuity of their operations, which will also benefit companies themselves. In addition, the proposal would impose an obligation on an undertaking or entity providing public service parking to provide access parking on equal terms to customers of all mobility and interconnection service providers. Mr President! As already envisaged at the start of the legislative project, the third stage is in itself complementary. I hope you will have a good debate on this proposal. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u251	Madam President! I will take a few points on the part of heavy traffic here. With this proposal, the acquisition of professional qualifications for heavy-duty drivers in road transport would be accompanied by an alternative to existing training models based solely on carrying out tests. A basic qualification test would be two-fold and would require a theoretical and practical examination. Skills related to basic professional qualifications training are tested in all situations by means of an experiment. The present proposal only creates a parallel access to a qualification. So one is through education and the other is without it. However, the end wind is the same, i.e. a skill test. The result of the experiment will continue to determine whether the candidate has sufficient knowledge and skills, and this must continue to be the case. The Defence Forces are still a very important trainer. They provide training leading to the professional qualifications of the lorry driver in ten units across Finland. The number of trained is about 14% of the annual number of conscripts. The training provided by the Defence Forces can be seen as a regionally and quantitatively comprehensive training opportunity. The training model has also been found to work in the Defence Forces. The proposal has improved the transfer of professional qualifications to civil society in the Defence Forces. In line with the proposal, an accelerated training officer in the Defence Forces would obtain a civil qualification at the age of 21 by conducting a professional qualification test in a civilian. I think this is an excellent proposal in this regard. Mr President! Road transport is currently facing a situation in which many transport companies have difficulties in getting a skilled workforce. In the future, there will be a clear shortage of drivers. Bringing the test option alongside the training option lowers the threshold for entering the sector and thus has a positive impact on the availability of labour. I believe that this proposal does not endanger road safety, but it does not improve it either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u252	Madam President! This is therefore the third part of the legislative reform known as the traffic cycle. This proposal will, among other things, reduce the level of professional qualifications for heavy goods vehicles by bringing together existing training opportunities with a model based on evidence tests. The main support for this proposal has been to get the workforce into the sector, as has already been expressed by the Minister and Mr Kulmala. The largest licensed carriers will be subject to an obligation to prepare themselves and an obligation previously held in road transport through the Emergency Supply Agency will now be introduced into the law, as in the case of train and air transport. As a general rule, this part of this proposal has received support during the consultation. What happens when it comes to taxis, this third part brings about the removal of the part of local knowledge from the test for taxi drivers. This too, according to the proposal, is intended to reduce labour shortages, and of course it will also reduce Traf's work. I myself dare in some way to think out loud in this referral that even if this taxi driver manages his duties by means of GPS as a rule, there is a certain level of local knowledge that is mandatory, just because prices can be agreed in advance in the course of the current taxi legislation. On the other hand, the lack of the current system is that the permit for taxis is not limited to the area where local knowledge has been tested. For example: In Helsinki, taxi drivers have been able to test their local knowledge with Imatra, and in a way this brings certain types of reliability factors to that taxi service. At least this is what I see for myself. In the referral debate, I welcome the fact that this proposal does not include the positioning obligations in the consultation on the holder of a permit for goods and passenger transport, the holder of a licence for rail transport and the operator obliged to report on rail transport. In particular, I would like to thank the heroes and experts of the government parties who, at this point, made the fact that this proposal does not include any amendments to the Postal Act, which would have to provide operational information to their own competitors, because it would have been quite unreasonable to do so at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u253	Madam President! This is the third part of the long-awaited package of transport services, and now we will be able to deal with it in Parliament. For many years there have been comments from the heavy traffic side that qualifications and training are very difficult and that even professionals are being given courses on things they already know. Now, this proposal goes ahead in a good way, i.e. it becomes this test option, rather than proving it by sitting on hours or days on courses, it is enough to prove it by experiment and thus acquire those qualifications. It is a good and welcome reform. It is also good that the police, the border guard and other authorities on the sea side can train and grant qualifications themselves instead of being involved in this heavier general mechanism. As far as taxis are concerned, there has been a great deal of talk about taxis in every turn in the context of the Transport Services Act, and so this time too. The local knowledge test is to be removed, and the request and initiative for change have come from operators in the sector. In my opinion, if we move along this path, we will have to pay attention to the skills of drivers in the future. We can't just let this test side go wild. There's got to be a certain level of driving. Now the responsibility for this is transferred to the holder of the licence and, in a way, the responsibility of the entrepreneur is increasing. Of course, I believe and hope that that knowledge will then be ensured through it and that it will be seen on the ground that there is a competitive advantage that taxi companies can tell their customers that our drivers know where their customers are taking them and are not entirely dependent on the navigator, even if it is possible to do so now with this local knowledge test.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u254	Madam President! The Transport Services Act creates the conditions for the digitalisation of transport and new business models. It has been the will of the government and also the goal. The key objective is also to enable customer-oriented transport services and to create a comprehensive package of services and provide flexibility and freedom of choice for transport users. That's a good thing. This government proposal is now the third stage of transport services in this law. It is very good that Parliament's efforts in the previous phase have now been taken into account, among other things, in the running numbering which is quite comprehensive in that government proposal, and also in the future to take into account the professional qualifications acquired in the Defence Forces. This third phase of the Transport Services Act will reduce the regulatory burden on professional qualifications in road and maritime transport. A test-based alternative to existing training models is proposed to provide basic professional qualifications for heavy-duty drivers in road transport. The tests would measure the same skills as the training options. In the future, however, it must be taken into account. This government proposal also alleviates the shortage of taxi drivers, which has arisen in the near future. Now that the government’s proposal gives up the taxi driver’s local knowledge test, it is also a request from the Taxi Federation, which has thus been made to the government’s proposal. I remember when this was discussed in the Committee on Transport and Communications at the time, and at the time it was considered to be an important issue for local knowledge, but now there is also hope from the Taxi Federation that there will be flexibility in this regard. However, there are navigators in those taxis, and it must be borne in mind that the carriage of a taxi still requires a licence for a taxi driver and that the taxi driver must continue to carry out a so-called theoretical test to determine, when applying for a driving licence, that the driver is able to ensure the safety of the passenger regardless of the vehicle used and to take into account the passenger’s operating limitations. It is worth noting that the taxi operator is still responsible for the driver's adequacy, including in terms of local knowledge and choice of route, and that the driver must always choose either the route or the most appropriate route indicated by the customer. I personally hope that taxi companies will also draw attention to the fact that taxi drivers are sufficiently qualified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u255	Madam President! The Government proposal now under discussion is the third stage of the Transport Services Act. Indeed, professional truck drivers have received feedback on what is known as useless courses, where the egg teaches the chicken, or learns the obvious. If this law can facilitate access to labour and facilitate entry into the sector, that is, of course, a good thing. There has been a shortage of labour in truck transport, even pensioners have been ordered to work. And, indeed, this test option will then be the easier option to come into the sector, but of course this will not eliminate that vocational training, it will also be possible to do so. The second question is that a driving licence for a taxi driver would no longer be subject to a local knowledge test. This is a critical question. There's been some feedback that the taxi driver knows the distance if he doesn't know the length of the route. Well, the navigator will, of course, have to be examined. But this feedback has indeed come from entrepreneurs. However, the taxi driver must also carry out a theoretical test to determine that the driver is able to take into account the passenger’s operating limitations, regardless of the passenger’s safety and the vehicle. And it is now the responsibility of the taxi operator that the driver knows the routes and knows the local knowledge. The driver must always choose either the route indicated by the customer or the appropriate route. And it does help, but sometimes it seems that even in the capital region, not all drivers know where to go when the navigator is not necessarily true. Indeed, there is an important section here, Article 38a, deleted. It would have been an addition to the Postal Act requiring postal undertakings to provide essential and up-to-date information on postal services for the development of postal services and distribution activities, and specifically for the provision and development of non-post and distribution services. Of course, media companies in particular have been active in this. The proposals received little support during the consultation, and we also had no consensus in the parliamentary group on this. Further work on them was not possible within the available time frame and, of course, the presentations in the consultation were prepared on the basis of the guidelines already adopted — this Government decision on the digitalisation of logistics. But in any case the article is gone now, and the future will then show us how to proceed with the postal route data — some of these data and address data are already available to others — and, above all, how to do so if we want to secure the delivery of mail in the sparsely populated area as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u256	Madam President! This government proposal, in particular, has given rise to a lot of debate on this aspect of professional qualifications, and it is good that it has made progress and achieved such an adequate degree of relaxation. The availability of labour has been a challenge for many transport operators in the transport sector and this is why attention needs to be paid to this qualification. It is also important that the training provided by the Defence Forces is now accepted more easily and that young people who are interested in it are more easily placed in employment. I would like to ask the Minister a question: now that professional qualifications have been established, now that we have this five-yearly update of professional qualifications, is there any relaxation that might still be taking place? At the moment, however, it is still valid that every five years that five days have to be on the course. This has been the subject of intense debate with both operators and entrepreneurs, but what is the future of this? Things related to preparedness: it is important that the transport sector takes some responsibility for this security of supply issue as well as for preparedness, both in transport and in passenger transport. More than 15 bus companies will then, of course, have an important role to play in terms of security of supply. To this local knowledge of the taxi. It is probably good that where local knowledge is not essential, these digital devices can fix it, but quite clearly, in the consumer's view, there are drivers here in Helsinki who do not have sufficient local knowledge. Of course, it is a little challenging not to find any more familiar addresses. But this has been a problem for several years now here in the capital region. We have to move on from here. With regard to the Postal Act, I will confine myself to saying that, in this context, when there was no sufficient consensus within the government parties, it was a good solution that this time, at least, it was not progressing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u257	Madam President! I would like to thank the representatives for these points of view and feedback and lunches. I can well understand the point of view and the pain of Mr Sea that it will take some twenty years to promote many things, especially from the EU, but during this period of government we have made a lot of progress, including those that have been in preparation for decades. Let us hope that this will continue in the future. With regard to this law on transport services and related regulation relating to the local knowledge of taxi drivers, I would remind you that the law still requires the driver to be able to choose the most appropriate route for the customer, unless the customer himself proposes it. In this respect, I would also like to believe that this is what the driver community is seeking and is capable of doing. At the same time, however, we must also ensure that the threshold for access to employment and employment is not too high and that we also allow technology to be used. At this important time, where digitalisation makes a great deal of transition to many jobs, it is also important that we create the best possible threshold for promoting employment in this sector as well. At the moment, on average, 45% of drivers will not survive the local knowledge test, and the system will have a flaw rather than those who come to these tests. At the same time, however, an average of 21% of drivers fail this general test, and it may be a normal level from which it can be said that this may be likely. I hope that progress can be made in this regard. And if the President-in-Office will allow me to say very briefly that the legislation on the transport of dangerous goods will continue to be regulated and that this will not affect our electronic transport document. Specific laws will continue to apply to specific transport operations. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u258	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 12/2018 vp. Parliament's statement on the report is now decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u259	Mr President! On this point, I would like to draw attention to a significant detail, namely some of the reasons for the indebtedness of private individuals. Indeed, this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has rightly taken a position on the impact of speed levers on the management of the public's finances and on the growth of these problems. Over-indebtedness is a serious social and economic problem. There has been an increase in the number of default marking and persons in enforcement. These economic problems are unfortunately serious not only for many people on low incomes but also for more and more people on average incomes. Of course, this is not in anyone’s interest, at most in the collection companies. Mr President! In the past, there has already been a cap on interest rates for loans below EUR 2000, but, unfortunately, quick-lease companies have started to circumvent this cap by granting more and more loans that are largely not regulated and, of course, with very high annual interest rates. It has contributed to this mentioned problem of over-indebtedness. Mr President! The Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen, has promised in public to tighten up the marketing of consumer credit and has promised to bring to Parliament a proposal to extend the regulation of interest rates on consumer credit to over EUR 2000. I am therefore looking forward to the proposal being submitted to Parliament as a matter of urgency. Many consumers also have problems with the aggressive marketing of quick liquors. In spring, a referral debate was held here in Parliament on a legislative initiative on the ban on the marketing of instant-vippies. It had been signed by well over a hundred MPs. Mr President! In particular, the ban on the marketing of quick-leases could have an impact on quick-leases, thereby preventing many people from falling into the debt cycle. It is hoped that both the ban on the marketing of quick liquors and the capping of large consumer credit will quickly gain the power of the law. I therefore call on the government to take urgent measures to prevent over-indebtedness of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u260	The 18th item in the order of business is presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 9/2018 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading on the framework agreement and then at the second reading on the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u261	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The debate on this was already opened in point 7. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u262	Mr President! Yes, this animal welfare law has been discussed today in the referral debate, and I must say that there is a lot of good in the government's proposal, a lot of improvements to animal welfare that the animal welfare group has also wanted in Parliament. There are also many good things that have been accomplished there, which the Finns of Peru have long wanted to improve and take forward in animal welfare. The Greens, under Emma Kari, have taken such a parallel initiative, which is very good, but which I have not put my name on either, because I do not agree with everything. The good thing about this initiative is the recognition of the animal's absolute dignity, the improvement of pain relief, the establishment of a veterinary protection authority, the more effective intervention in animal breeding and the more effective control. But then there's the problem: We are having very serious difficulties today for producers. The producer's plight is real. In this respect, when it comes to animal welfare, we need to work together and think about what the solutions are, how the producer will be able to produce and get more money in his bag as the producer invests in animal welfare and ethical production. There would be one possibility of increasing and increasing compensation payments for producers, but at the moment we must also consider our ability to produce local food, clean food, and that is a tricky matter, namely that this combination must be brought to the point where the producer has the opportunity, because the producers want to invest in animal welfare, and that means less trade, more paid to producers and greater animal welfare. This is also a huge export advantage for our good food production and our clean food, where antibiotics have hardly been used at all, and that is the future. And because of this, because this green initiative has not taken sufficient account of the role of producers, I have not been able to sign this bill of theirs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u263	Madam President! For exactly the same reasons as Elomaa, chairman of the Animal Protection Club, said that I had the same problems. There were very good proposals here, such as the Animal Protection Commissioner and the improvement of controls. But it is good that these are being discussed, and now the situation of animals is improving in many respects. In fact, I would like to welcome the general principles of this Chapter 2 in this animal welfare law, as well as the requirements for the treatment of animals in Chapter 3, which have stated what is prohibited and what kind of equipment and equipment may be used. Among other things, we must no longer use barbed collars, electric collars. There is a need for regulation in these areas. I see it in the way that, in the future, when we consider, for example, animal-protection offences, infringements or controls, this can be interpreted to that effect — at least if I were in court to make these decisions — a good guide on how to judge whether the animal has been treated well or badly. For example, here Article 13 states that it gives concrete meaning to what it is for a good handling of an animal, i.e. ‘Animal treats or trainsastrea-tionally orby other means,that it causes unnecessary pain. The animal shall not be bound in such a way as to cause unnecessary pain and suffering.’; There's a huge amount of concrete in here. Even at first I thought it would have been good to have that absolute value in the law, but now I think it is more important to me that what is very specifically recorded here is what the good treatment of the animal is, because it is bigger than having a word or not being in the law. I think that's very good. Then the care of the animals has also been carefully regulated in relation to that supply of drinking water. I personally believe, of course, that an animal must always have a fresh drink, but, as was pointed out in those discussions, sometimes there is an exceptional situation. I went there again to Minister Lepä to ask that when that regulation comes, it also gives the possibility of not having to close the horse stables. For example, when I am a horse enthusiast, I play with the Finnish horses, so I know that the stable can't take all day to ensure that the water doesn't freeze. Yes, it is constantly being taken care of, but no one can stand there all the time, it must be understood, and the animal does not drink all the time. One of the things I would have liked is that, with regard to the ban on the keeping of animals, it might have been considered that it would have been obliged, for example, to ask the sellers of animals for a certificate that there is no ban on the keeping of animals. I have sometimes been told that it will cost more. Well, it costs about 20 euros, that certificate, so that if you think you buy a dog or horse or someone else, then if you don’t have 20 euros to invest in that certificate, then you probably won’t be able to afford to buy it for an animal or take care of it. In 2015, I took a legislative initiative to ensure that Finland is very behind in this. Finland, Hungary and Romania are countries in Europe that allow you to interfere sexually with animals without being punished. We must always be able to show that animals have suffered, and it is sometimes quite challenging when an animal cannot be interviewed. It is the message of society that it is not acceptable here. This is a great reform, and I made this a bill. I got feedback on this from a group like Zoophil when I took this bill in 2015. They saw the need in their opinion for the steering group on the overall reform of the Animal Protection Act of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to take me in the right position when I am a representative of the Parliament who supports this criminalisation — and I am, I am, it is not acceptable and it is not proper in the civilised state — and it is felt that I am mainly against this in order to satisfy the loathsome reactions. This is not a question of what is acceptable to society and what is acceptable to the animal. I received an e-mail from this group and they told me that I do not respect people's sexual tendencies. This is not about human sexual tendencies. However, the other side is defenceless, not an animal capable of will - forming. In addition, this group sent me a statement of this kind, where had then been examined through these things, how yes the animal can give his consent. I have to read from here. They wrote: ‘Animals are likely to express opinion in the body’s language and, if necessary, to defend themselves with time Somehow it seems rather strange that things like this need to be excused and try to tell that this would somehow be like the normal phenomenon we are going to, and we should just have this conversation to get over. Thank you for coming. When I talked about this then, many did not write their names here. Especially for the Greens I am quite disappointed because here today there was a huge debate on animal welfare, and somehow I feel that this sort of thing does not then, however, so-called. Don't be afraid to put a name on it. Yes, these are such advances that I do not know if this had not been taken into public debate and milled at the time, then would this have come, because when I myself called the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in this steering group, there was little thought that now that this is also bad feedback and other things. It was a good thing that at least the group of Finns in Peru was vigorous in it. I did get names there from downtown, and names came from somewhere, but in a certain way the absence of certain parties did. Then there is another point which I am very pleased about. Representative Ronkainen made a bill about this, that the animal should be stunned before the blood falls, so you really have to make sure that the animal has been stunned, that the throat is not drawn when the animal is conscious. The names of the Greens did not come to this either. Sometimes I wonder why it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u264	Madam President! Representative Emma Kari has questioned almost the whole reform of the law that we are talking about with this bill. Animalia also launched a new campaign in May, focusing on the rights of the forgotten group of animals, fish. In view of the number of animal units, fish are a huge group of farmed animals, but Animalia considers that the discussion on animal rights in Finland is still limited. I am sure that this debate is also good, but the use of common sense in this area is also very welcome. A few comments on their campaign. “Fisheries are a great problem solver and their We cannot justify killing, eating or other exploitation of fish because they are ‘fish only’.’ So says Veikka Lahtinen, campaign manager of Animalian. ‘In the campaign,Animalia also wants to give birth to awareness that food productionis possibleto be carried Fish are often recommended as a good food, but the recommendations forget the animal rights perspective. For fish, the most desirable option is to leave the fins off the plate. We remind you that fish is not a vegetable and we highlight ways to eat fully herbal food.” Mai Kivelä, Executive Director of Animalian, tells us this. Here are some comments on the Animalian campaign. Animalian’s guidance gives the impression that fish should not be eaten because they feel pain. Would vegetarian food be a better option? Studies have been carried out on plants that have shown that plants are intelligent. The latest research is not necessarily to the liking of all herbivores, for it says that plants also know and feel when they are eaten, and they do not like it at all. The Modern Farmer site reports on a study carried out at the University of Missouri that studied plant intelligence a little further. Scientists wanted to find out if the plant knew when to start eating it. The answer surprised the researchers, for not only did the plant feel it when it was eaten, but it also tried to prevent it. The study used Arabian dopsis thaliana, or weed, because its basic genetic mechanisms are ideal for conducting various studies. The mechanisms and organisms of the weed are so similar with other plants/plants that studies on the basis of the weed can also be applied to other useful plants. Mr President! When the weed knew or heard an enemy, such as the caterpillar of a butterfly, it began to flow into endangered leaves of poisonous mustard oil. The same happened when the larva began to gnaw the leaves. The weed can also distinguish it because the sound came from wind and rain, for example, and because it was caused by enemy movements. Animalia does not appear to distinguish between fishing forms. They obviously have a desire to ban all fishing. Their principle is to make the whole of Finland a purely vegan society. But what about when that vegetable feels pain too? Then what can we eat? I myself, Mr President, eat domestic fish and meat every week, and I have no conscience at all. I also eat reasonably domestic, but no longer vegetables produced abroad. The best flavored tomato can be found in Georgia, or in my mother's greenhouse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u265	Madam President! I personally welcome this parallel initiative by the Greens. Compared to this government proposal, it reveals the weaknesses of the government's proposal. The essence of the parallel initiative is that this is based on the fact that the animal's absolute value is recognised and the animal's absolute value is put before the production objectives, but, as can be read here, this does not make animal production impossible. Here are a few things I would particularly like to see in the government proposal. In my view, the presentation of the Animal Protection Commissioner is very welcome, because, for example, the Animal Protection Commissioner could bring forward scientific, proven research on animal matters ahead, which would make a significant contribution to the animal issue. In the previous debate, Minister Leppä told us that this law, the government's proposal for a law on animal welfare, is now bringing the law up to date with today's research. The government's proposal allows a pig to be castrated without anesthesia. It allows the movement of animals to be restricted in such a way that, while the movement of bovine animals is increased, it is allowed to move at its worst for three months of the year. It is impossible to find such research data where these would be good for animal welfare. On the other hand, there is also good supervision in this parallel legislative initiative. Now the good thing about the government's proposal is that the slaughterhouses will have access to camera surveillance. I personally would have liked to see more regulation, but I believe that this could be taken further. It could be a competitive advantage for those animal producers and those working with animal production who manage their affairs well. Those responsible, honest entrepreneurs who have nothing to hide could use camera surveillance, for example, brand their own product ethically transparently produced, which could be a competitive asset for them. As Mr Elomaa pointed out well in earlier speeches, the plight of the producer is quite real, it is a fact. But is it the Animal Protection Act? I do not believe that there will be that problem, but I believe that it will be a trade problem. It is a question of how much price a producer gets for his product and how it compares with us consumers. I would see that those solutions can be found in the trade sector far from how to alleviate the plight of producers. I personally see that the strength of Finnish production, competitiveness, export advantage, the advantage of sales would be precisely to make it as ethical as possible and to make it the selling power that Finnish production can handle and, through it, the Finnish producer manages.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u266	Madam President! Mr Modig's views on the plight of producers and their reasons are easy to agree with and also on the direction in which proposals for solutions should be made. However, according to current knowledge, animal welfare is significantly affected by the animal’s ability to carry out its species-specific behaviour, such as moving, resting, social relations, exploring the environment and food. However, these species-specific needs are ignored in some places in the Government bill. This would be different. A key starting point for the Greens' parallel bill is the possibility of mobility and species-specific behaviour. We also want a stronger record in the law of animal pain relief and of always choosing the least painful course of action for the animal. During the transitional period and with the help of investment in new business activities, we would ban the keeping of animals where the possibility of meeting the essential and typical behavioural needs of the animal species cannot be organised. Our position here is the same as that of the Association of Veterinarians, which must be regarded as an expert on animal welfare. Mr President! These proposals in our parallel legislative proposal are justified by the drafting of a new, modern and high-quality legislation on animal welfare. That is the government bill we will be discussing today in this sitting even later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u267	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Elomaa, for your constructive contribution. The Animal Protection Group in Parliament has done a great deal. This can be seen, among other things, in these changes that have been made since the consultation. It was a real consultation that affected this law, and adjustments were made. But as far as this green bill is concerned, it takes no account of the animal welfare spill. It is actually hypocritical to say that no matter how strict the legislation is, the producer would get the price from that market. We all know that this is not the case in Finland, and it is an example that this has not happened, for example in Sweden, where the tightening of animal welfare legislation caused for example the self-sufficiency rate of pig meat to fall to almost 60% at its lowest level, and consumers in Sweden moved on to consumption of pig meat from elsewhere, causing a very severe global deterioration in animal welfare, when Sweden was already very advanced. It is therefore important to take account of the balance in these proposals, and it is equally important to note that animal welfare legislation, animal welfare legislation, must apply to all animals. It is quite twofold, for example, to talk about animal freedom only in the case of farmed animals. Why are we not concerned that dog litter is one of the most growing sales articles in pet stores? What's this about? It tells us that dogs do not have the 90-day outdoors obligation, at least for farm animals, dairy cows. I know a great deal of asparagus where the animals are doing really well, and I wonder that the greens and the left would be willing to stop such small dairy farms. I think it is part of biodiversity that when animals are treated well, small farms can also succeed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u268	Mr President! Just a few more things. The storage of the found animal is being reduced to 10 days from two weeks. I think that is a bad thing, because it may be that the owner of the animal may have gone to a hospital and not be able to pick up his animal, and after ten days the animal can be killed. There is one thing in my neighborhood: Karelian bear dog had been released, but a good dog had been released. They had been caught, taken to the animal place they found. Two days later, the police stopped for no greater reason. It was inconceivable. Let's just say it's still not quite over, even though it wasn't exactly its own dog. So this is a bad thing, and it has also become feedback. Although the Attorney General is not here right now, one more thing. In 2011, the penalty scale for animal protection offences was tightened so that even a little harsher penalties could be imposed, but for some reason the Court of Justice will not give much more of these. In the case of even the most gruesome animal-protection crimes, there is at most a fine, very rarely a conditional one, and this torture of the animal may have continued for a long time, just months, even years. Then there is the regional and social reform. As a result, there is concern about how this veterinary emergency service will be provided so that even in remote villages it is reasonably possible to take it to pet care. If you have to go tens, a hundred miles, you can only imagine that a low - income person has a great deal of difficulty finding the money to take care of a beloved pet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u269	Mr President! This parallel initiative by the Green Group arose from the need that, now that the animal welfare law was finally brought here after 20 years of preparation, the level of ambition in this animal welfare law did not, in our opinion, correspond to what we, on the one hand, want green, but on the other hand, which is widely supported and supported by the new up-to-date research on how animals behave, how they feel about pain and other animal welfare research. This gave rise to the need to bring to this at the same time our vision of the level of ambition that the Animal Protection Act should pursue now that we are in the process of adopting a new law. In view of the Nordic or Western European framework in which we operate, these legislative reforms have been made here over the years, and now that we are bringing this latest law, we would like to see us in charge of this animal welfare. There are some small steps forward in this government proposal, but we think they are far too little, and that is why, in our own legislative initiative, we have raised the level of ambition and, on the other hand, raised certain points that we felt were missing from the government's proposal, as was the re-establishment of the Animal Protection Commissioner, which was suspended in 2013 by this government. On the other hand, the ban on fur farming is something that has not been taken up at all in this government proposal, although we know that fur farming has been stopped and is about to end in many other countries, and it is quite clear that over the years it will come before us too. That is why we see that now that this new animal welfare law was being adopted, it would have been a good time to say so. Then there is the increase in controls. We know that, on the one hand, producers take good care of their animals — it is also in the interests of the producer, a healthy animal produces better — but, on the other hand, we know that there are many cases where controls and assistance are needed. It is therefore important that this monitoring should be sufficiently comprehensive everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u270	Madam President! We are now going through a more ambitious initiative by the Greens on animal welfare legislation, and apparently later in the evening we will return to that government proposal. I would like to make a few comments on this. For example, adequate pain relief must be guaranteed here, which has also been mentioned many times in this Chamber this evening. Let's talk about castrating piglets and that this is a painful and stressful procedure that should be able to be removed. Of course, the sector agrees that it could be a measure that we should be able to take care of so that it is no longer necessary. This immunocaster has also been tried and tested in Finland as to whether the painful procedure can be replaced with that method, so that there is no need to discuss whether or not to anesthetic first and how much pain medication should be given after the procedure. But here the problem is that putting the vaccine spike of its immunocaster at the right place so that the so-called smell of boar does not move into meat at the slaughter stage is extremely difficult and it is also a double measure for the animal in question. It does not come with one vaccine, and that is why it is also quite challenging in the production pig. And the second thing that comes up against it is that we, as pigs, have to be delivered to a slaughterhouse, which also reduces the production capacity of pig farms, i.e. the amount of pig meat produced at the national level, will be reduced considerably. In other words, this poses challenges for industry to deliver commercial products, as well as for those farms to be profitable if this were to happen. But I quite agree that this would be the right way to go. This would be the easier way. In view of the production of fish today, thousands of individual measures are being taken there during the year. I've made thousands of these myself. I know what this measure is, and I would like to see a chemical solution here that could be implemented in the future. This ban on asparagus does surprise me a little bit, the fact that you are in this proposal for an eight-year transitional period ending the parasitic waters. Looking at the young entrepreneurs who have still invested in asparagus in recent years, it is quite a stretch when the welfare of the animals has been treated 110 percent and then it is simply stated that in eight years' time this effort will no longer be managed in this way. So this is a really cold road. It must be borne in mind that now that these former subsidies have been decided to cease, here comes the natural transition to the canteens. Then this animal welfare commissioner: that is what I would like to say to you, even for the record, that there is a mistake in this bill. That post hasn't been terminated by the current government, has it? It was a fixed-term post that was not decided by this government, but a fixed-term post. I can't remember the date where it ended, but it ended there, and it hasn't been stopped by this government. As far as this bill is concerned, I would ask that it should now be possible to re-establish this either on a temporary or permanent basis — I do not know exactly which one you are referring to — when I have hoped on several occasions that I would also be able to get such a boost on this issue: What right decisions were made when this temporary authority acted? What measures were actually taken to improve animal welfare? There may have been a debate, but no measures were taken at all. Then this ban on fur farming: as has already been mentioned earlier this afternoon, this bill is indeed used in an incomprehensible way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u271	Mr President! I shall just now comment on this original government proposal to Parliament as a law on animal welfare and on certain related laws. The original government proposal is very important and expected. It is good to note that, despite the importance of the law, this proposal has kept its feet on the ground and has not fallen overboard. This proposal clarifies and complements the provisions on the place where animals are kept, treated and treated in such a way as to take greater account of the promotion and good treatment of the overall welfare of animals. These things cannot be underestimated in any way. According to the proposal, the law would provide for those species and animals that can be considered, for example, as farm animals and as social or recreational animals. I have had a lot of inquiries about how if you want a new animal, for example, as a farm animal, how to get it on this list. Perhaps at some point the Minister will be able to answer my question. The continued installation of the animal at a permanent establishment would be prohibited, subject to certain exceptions. A transitional period of five years would prohibit the continuous retention of cows and heifers and horses other than those kept for milk production. I think this transitional period is good and could have been longer. On the other hand, it is not proposed that cows and heifers kept permanently connected for milk production should be banned. Longer-term housing of sows and gilts in breeding cages would be prohibited for a transitional period of 15 years. However, for production and economic reasons, it is not proposed to prohibit the keeping of sows and gilts in farrowing cages. For many, pregnancy cages and farrowing cages in terms are difficult to understand. Perhaps it would be a good idea to open these up a little further in the proposal. According to the presentation, mammals and birds should have constant access to water at their permanent accommodations. As a rule, this should be the case, even if, for example, a natural mink, a raccoon dog or a fox in winter is constantly getting water by eating snow. Then why are such requirements needed in fur farming? Of course, this proposal also mentions that a Government regulation may also provide for an exception to permanent housing sites where it is excessively difficult to organise the continuous supply of water for reasons of animal stocking and weather conditions. I think this is a good addition and I hope it will also be recorded in the law. In any case, the new law does not bring any significant changes to Finnish fur farming, which means that the business can continue, and I think it is good. According to the proposal, animal breeding should aim at producing viable, functional and healthy animals. In order to achieve this goal, breeding should be carried out by physically and mentally healthy animals, which can be expected to inherit these qualities also to their offspring. I believe that this should also apply to the processing of dogs. For example, there is now a ban on the use of an animal for breeding which, due to its genetic characteristic or disease, is unable to reproduce naturally, for example, some small breeds of dogs in need of cesarean surgery. At the moment, we already have breeds of dogs that are difficult to breathe or walk. Madam President! According to Article 3 of the Animal Welfare Act, animals must be treated well and not be subjected to unnecessary suffering. The production of unnecessary pain and pain to animals is prohibited. This proposal will improve the state of animal welfare and strengthen animal welfare control and public intervention. I consider this proposal important and acceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u272	Thank you. — Ladies and gentlemen, please note that this paragraph should in principle only apply to this bill 39. This is a slightly enlarged debate, but I understand your concern that this sitting will end at 10 p.m. and, before that, it would be an attempt to move to that point 7, where we could deal with them. We'll use this, which you've now booked here, and then we'll try to move to that seven.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u273	Mr President! I believe that this parallel initiative by the Greens has now given rise to a debate which is almost more fruitful than the debate we had earlier in the evening. I would like to thank Mr Haka for his sound and constructive speech. I understand that you yourself have raised pigs, so your speech comes from personal experience, and that is why I consider your reflection on this issue of castration and the fact that you, as an entrepreneur in the industry, can see that another way must come. This immunocasting obviously has the problems you have, but I understand that there are also discussions at EU level that the EU could be forced to move away from this surgical procedure. Should Finland not then be in the vanguard and be prepared for it already for farmers and producers? Secondly, when it is so clear that castration as a surgical procedure without anesthesia is extremely painful, would you, Mr Hakanen, see it possible that we, at this point in the government's proposal, have recorded that we are calling for an anesthesia to this measure? Then, if the immunocastration at some point becomes practically more functional, it could be an opportunity, because it is quite clear that surgical castration produces unnecessary suffering. I would like to say to Mr Kalmar that, when you raised the issue of the abuse of pets, it is quite true, it is a serious issue. In Helsinki, we had just such an annual report on how our animal protection works. There was a clear thorn in animal - protection violations. When asked about it, it specifically concerned pets, which, of course, are the common form of housing in Helsinki. The reason for the animal failure was people’s nausea, poverty, life - control problems, substance abuse problems, mental health problems. Then they're reflected in that animal. I would assume that this is the same when it comes to producers that the well-being of a person is reflected in how he is able, able and willing to take care of that animal. That is why all of this is linked to what decisions, policies we make about how people cope with their work, their lives, their everyday lives and how they cope with their everyday challenges. In my view, the extremely important point in this Greens' proposal is the extension of controls so that there is no need for a separate declaration. As I said in my previous speeches, I myself would be prepared to extend camera surveillance to more extensive production facilities. I'd see it for the good of the producer. But this option, where an inspection can be carried out without notification: I do not see what the problem is. Repeatedly in this Chamber that our producers are doing good work and striving for animal welfare, a well-being animal farm can come and check without anyone reporting it, because then there should be nothing to comment on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u274	Madam President! At this point in the evening, perhaps a little less, of course, when one hears it said that it is now acceptable that someone's work should be monitored by cameras at all times, [Laughter] In my opinion, this debate is all very important and valuable. I appreciate anyone here who can build up these unquestionably painful and in some places very difficult things to bring up from different angles. That's our job here, too. I share that view that the welfare of both pet animals and wild animals and farmed animals must be cared for with the same weight, of course, so that our responsibility for the welfare of those animals that are in human care, pets and farm animals is more direct, but of course we have a lot more influence on the welfare of wild animals, on the natural conditions and on the environmental impact, and so on. There is no record of such pets or, for example, of whether pets have an outdoor obligation, neither the government nor the Greens' bill, and one of the reasons for this is surely that supervision would be very difficult and impossible to organise. If there is an answer, neither has the government attached it to its proposal, which is not quite clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u275	Madam President! My own speech deals with the Government's proposal for a law on animal welfare and some related laws. Personally, I am delighted with the section of the bill on puppy production. We are all aware of cases where dogs have been produced under shocking conditions with pure greed in mind, ignoring the results, which in most cases have been unhappy. Unregarded activities in the production of puppies have led to multi-sick and inviolable litters, which have been sold as semi-free parking space sales to gullible customers. Their own species is also the deliberate production of dangerous and harmful individuals. It is a very good thing that the present legislative proposal seeks to complicate and hopefully put an end to this undesirable phenomenon, which has resulted not only in the suffering of defenceless animals but also in human suffering and disappointment when loved, sick pets have been forced to stop. The registration of dogs requires a transparent knowledge of the dog’s procurement history and its open display from the dog’s owner. With the entry into force of the law, we hope that the illegal importation of dogs will also cease. It can be assumed that the obligation to register will bring posture and responsibility to puppy production, which will reduce the number of sick puppies and improve customer safety and satisfaction for new dog owners. It would also be preferable to have a debate on the value of the processing that has been taken to the extreme. Are the processed qualities of appearance worth pursuing, for example, an oversized head in relation to the rest of the body, even though they produce suffering for the animal? By this I refer to the fact that, for example, abstinence is not possible in certain breeds of dogs, because the head cannot come out through a natural birth canal, but the puppies are helped out with a section. Mr President! I hope that later in the near future the corresponding legislation on the identification and registration of cats can be incorporated into the law later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u276	Congressman Hakanen. — Let's push the list forward a lot and get some room for the others tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u277	Madam President! I was thinking of using a little longer reflection on these important issues in relation to the government's proposal, but I might leave some time for others to speak. I don't know how much longer I'm really allowed to talk about this place until the Speaker throws... [The President : Start with a line-up! — Laughter] Now, I am going to go back a little bit to that pig castration, which has been widely discussed here, in terms of whether it could be recorded in a more committed and broader way than the government's proposal as a base text is now. Of course, the fact that we are going now to do the anesthetic, the pain relief, the after-treatment is quite significant. At this point, I would also like to point out that it is quite a significant production cost for farms. With that in mind, I can say firsthand that when castration is performed on a boar pig from about 4 to 5 days of age, it is not quite as painful or as long-lasting pain as is often implied. That pig is so small at that point that he doesn't have the kind of pain he might think about. Well, if first the pig should be taken out of there from under the mother, anesthetic, let the anesthesia work for a while, then do this procedure and then give it pain relief and possibly an anti-inflammatory drug, then this procedure is also quite long-lasting. It will inevitably bring the pig-spahnue and the sow a harassment situation that will certainly bring unrest to the sow in the stall, and then those pigs will be in greater danger for the next hour or two until the situation calms down there. So, in many places, this isn't such an unambiguous thing. And then, if we go to that immunocastration — I am quite sure that this product development is making quite rapid progress on this issue, it is being done throughout Europe today, we are looking for alternatives to this, and, as I told you, this has been tested in Finland — the fact is that the risk is that we are not going to be able to implement it now so that it is not guaranteed to pass on to meat. It therefore requires a double treatment of the pig, and the timing of the procedure when animals grow at a slightly different time is not a very simple solution. Which means it's hard to do. And then it is precisely these production volumes: Mr Halmemenpää did well to point out that then a smaller pig should be given a better price per kilo — just the right way to think — but then, when you look at the whole of Finland's food production and the pig production, it would collapse anyway, because about half of the piglets are boar pigs, on average you could count this way, maybe a little less. However, this is a significant fall in our pig production, and then we will be once again on the European market and globally weaker as a pig-producing country and the export of this clean, magnificent product outwards will also be significantly weakened. So there is quite a lot of such small details here, but I fully agree with what has been the case in this good debate today. This must be continued, and this must also be assessed in principle in such a way that it cannot be said that we always go through this current castration, but that we must strongly support that research and development so that we can move to this point at some point. Madam President, this is a small lesson about the castration of a boar pig and its possible future. Then I thought I'd move on to that pet side. Here is this dog registration, and now the cats have also been brought up. Perhaps I too would like us to find a solution rather quickly for the registration of cats. There are us who each have a cat at home. We have three cats too, and we all have a vaccination card. All those cats are registered in that veterinary register. It wouldn't be such a big trouble to put a chip in that ear and find it on the record. Of course, this is a long road, because we also have a lot of so-called free cats, which are then the problem we are talking about. But in the future we must take this concern seriously, because this is what is visible to all the people also through pets first. They do not run away from snakes or hamsters at home first come forth, but these stray cats. And then this puppy factory. In my opinion, this registration of dogs will now considerably tighten this up. And in my opinion, if you produce puppies, you have to have a business ID, which means it's taxable income, you pay VAT on it, and you've registered those dogs there. Since then, we always know when sold without a business ID that that dog is not in the register and has not been properly reared. We can also make sure that these breeders, who supply these puppies for sale, know what they are growing and what kind of dog they are breeding, what breed they are breeding, and not that there are breeds of dogs that are then processed cheaply for sale with distractions and distractions. In other words, there are extremely many positive aspects here, and that is precisely the direction in which this must be taken and developed. Then, Mr President, let us go back a little bit to the livestock sector, go to the slaughterhouses and consider from the worker's point of view the constant recording of the picture of the slaughterhouse. You will remember those unfortunate events in 2015 when, unfortunately, the mistreatment of animals was found in my homestead at the Sastamala small slaughterhouse slaughterhouse. The first reaction that came out of there quite widely in the big area when those pictures came out was that while the faces were covered with the people who worked there in the slaughterhouse, every person who worked there was identified in the village. Even if there was no animal welfare problem there, people could see who had brought the animals, they could almost say from where the animals were brought from which area they were then mistreated by the butcher. So here too comes this protection of a person and in such a way that when we have personal ways to walk, to work, that person can be identified quite easily. And here I also hope for understanding when it comes to the food industry, that when it is given the opportunity to describe the implementation of the production concept, it must be a win-win situation, so to speak, starting from the fact that the industry will sign the Evira inspection report and not from the point of view of the desire to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u278	Madam President! Thank you to Mr Hakase for his excellent and competent speech. From this very point of view, I would like to say whether Finland is model countries for animal welfare or not. I think the Greens' accusations that we are not among the top countries and this amendment to the Animal Welfare Act is unambitious were totally wrong. Measured by all instruments Finland is very high in animal welfare. It might actually be said that we have a fairly equal position with Sweden, side by side there. A good example is that Finland and Sweden, despite the EU's calls, are the only countries in which the pig can keep its pigtails. I myself did a training period in France, and there with the same scissors I broke my teeth and then cut the pigtails off those pigs. Many consumers do not really know what this is about, they do not understand that the pig's pigtail has to be cut off because there is a tail bite, if the pig is under stressful conditions, the conditions are not in order or it is too crowded. When you don't have a pigtail, you don't have a tail bite. In Finland, too, these matters are handled differently. In Finland, the chicken is allowed to keep its beak, and Sweden is actually the only one who goes to the same level. When I talked about those stressful conditions in the pig, the farm requirements for animals in Finland in general are much higher than the EU average, and that is the level we should encourage other EU countries to go to. We actually have a lot of demands at animal level, but it has been a little difficult to address the pet side, because we have thought that domestic peace is such that it cannot be broken so easily by the public authority. That is why, for example, now that these bans on keeping animals are imposed — this was a question of controls — I think it is very good that we can now go to the homes and check them out. But no matter what animal it is to be kept, whether it is a farm animal or a pet, I personally would not be in favour of having continuous camera surveillance or production facilities in the homes. I don't think it's proper thinking, even though a little bit of the green one was raised from this one. Then I saw this level of ambition in general. Of course, reducing animal pain is one of the priorities. I think it is important that even the possession of electrical and other pain - causing devices, of course, and also of imports, be banned. This discussion on pain relief was already well under way, but I was thinking that, as much as people are already being treated with different gels, perhaps in the future this could be a daily occurrence of pain-producing measures, i.e. it could be carried out by the producer himself without a veterinarian. But in any case, the regulation will then create clarifications on this pain. Well, will the freedom of animals improve? In principle, the freedom of all animals will improve, as the legislation lays down animal welfare requirements. For example, cattle, horses, pregnant sows will be able to move in the future. When I said that pets should also be considered on an equal footing, I think that even on the pet side these records of animal-like behavior require that dogs should not be kept there in a cage while working and thinking that they would not do any damage there. Parsinas already have an obligation to walk, and it is expanding. Think about it, we do not even have an obligation to walk in service homes for the elderly, but every cow in Finland will be released for 90 days in the future. It is quite obvious that as time goes by, as well as the fact that this type of building no longer invests in it when investment aid does not come in the future, I think it would be wrong to punish those who scratch cows and even walk every day throughout the year. Many organic farms are just like this. I find it quite incomprehensible that we should blame one of the barn types. Species-specific behaviour in other areas is also greatly improved. It has already been pointed out that respect for animals leads to the fact that sexual contact with the animal must not be made in the future. It's forbidden to kill people for entertainment. You can't do animal dyeing. All of these come from the fact that an animal is viewed as a value other than a monetary value. Much has already been said about water supply, and here too we really need to think about the animal field completely so that all the animals are on the same line. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u279	Mr President! At this point, I was thinking of talking specifically about our initiative and answering a couple of questions about what happened earlier. Mr Hakaselle: The correct observation is that this animal welfare commissioner was in the previous government when it was started, in time, and of course it is semantics, whether it can now be thought that it has now been stopped, or whether it is just that it is not as if it has been reformed. Of course, when it was set up, it has been the idea that it is permanent, because there is no point in setting up a new post and driving in a person and that activity and then ending it short. But it was quite right that it was temporary at the time. I personally see the need for it. Today, too, we have talked a lot about the fact that there should also be adequate control and monitoring of non-farming animals, both pet animals, companion animals and hobby animals, and it was precisely this whole field that was the responsibility of the Animal Protection Commissioner. There has also been a great deal of mention here of the fact that these animal-protection offences and offences are of the kind that they are not sufficiently addressed, and one of the tasks of this Animal Protection Commissioner was also to intervene in this field and, of course, to increase that cooperation with the various parties involved. For example, when the Animal Protection Act was drafted, it became clear that the Animal Protection Ombudsman had a role to play in the debate that took place. On the other hand, there is also a need for a change of attitude when it comes to providing information on animal welfare both to the decision-maker and, for example, to consumers, which I see as important again when the consumer thinks about what choices he makes, whether he favours organic food or anything else, and it is important that he knows enough about this animal welfare. On the other hand, by choosing such methods of production, particularly for welfare, it is also possible for producers to bring in an additional price. In that sense, I can see that there is a need for this animal welfare commissioner. I would very much like this to be re-introduced in a way. Then I have to make the point that Mr Kalmar has made to this control, that the Greens are not doing any camera surveillance. On the contrary, it is there in the government's proposal so that, with Valvira's permission, some kind of control can be imposed on production facilities. But what we are proposing in this legislative proposal is that the supervisory authority should also have the right to carry out inspections on production premises without prior notification.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-02-ps-93.u280	Madam President! I would like to raise one more point here: this is the control of the premises. It has also been pointed out — Mr Modig said — whether the space could not be taken over at any time, because all things are in order. This is in principle the case, but we all know in our work, today too, that if we make a diary of work done here in the house, it is quite likely that today, after the sitting, we will not have a diary to write. If you come in the morning at 7 a.m. to ask that yesterday, whether all the drugs are registered, all the tasks are done properly, then necessarily they are not done on the side of the day when that job is done. So here comes such extra mental performance pressure for the farms as well. If more were to be added to this unreported income, it would bring such a thing that a record must always be made, each entry must always be made when you go to bed, made for that day. This is the starting point for all of us, of course, that we do our work as well as we can, but when a person does humanly, we can sometimes move work that is not relevant to the welfare of that animal at 11:00 p.m. tomorrow morning, when I come from work in that pighouse. In other words, in this way we do not want to create the impression that everything is in order. But it must also be honest that such things are often done and are done when the time comes, but it is always sought to be kept up to date that those records are made, and to that, too, we are bound by all the appointed times, and that is where they will also be fulfilled. Thank you again to Mr Mikkos for this, when I actually heard for the first time in this debate, when we were talking about this delegate, there are some arguments in this Chamber which may also be justifiable, those that you have just presented. I have now asked Mr Viitanen, Mr Kari, more than once here, but never heard of them. Now there was a clear view of how you would like it to continue, and how it would have been recorded here, but I am not entirely convinced that this would bring us any added value to animal welfare in that regard, because that control is the responsibility of the veterinarian, the county veterinarian and, therefore, the police authorities again, if there is a situation in which we have to deal with the problems of animal welfare. It may never go or be based on the farm level. Thank you for a good debate.
