ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the transmission of the proposal to the Committee on Finance. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 19 September 2018. The Council of Presidents continues to recommend that the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the basis of day-to-day arrangements between 4 and 18. on the subject. And now we have two ministers here. Presentations, Minister Soini and Minister Virolainen. — Minister Soini begins. Here you go!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u2	Madam President! Finland's foreign policy aims to strengthen Finland's international position, secure the independence and territorial integrity of Finland and improve the safety and well-being of Finns. This is what we are doing and what we are continuing to do. A sustainable economy, a rule-based international system and international competitiveness contribute to achieving these objectives. We propose EUR 1.1 billion for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is a very moderate 2% increase, EUR 18.6 million in money. With this contribution, the Finnish diplomatic service serves the entire central government, individuals, companies, organisations, media and other partners. The priorities I set — Arctic regions, Baltic Sea security, strengthening cooperation between Finland and Sweden, transatlantic cooperation and mediation — are consistently taken into account. It is not possible to handle Finland’s affairs without a comprehensive network of representations. Therefore, unlike its predecessor, the government has opened two embassies, Yangon and Bogotá, and the consulate, São Paulo. Experience is good. We must continue the work and we are now proposing that the embassy in Baghdad be reopened. Finland is also affected by developments in Iraq. By acting on the ground, we will be able to contribute more effectively to the development of bilateral relations, including commercial and economic opportunities and the return issues of those who have received negative asylum decisions. Madam President! At the beginning of my period, the condition of the representative properties was quite flat. Things have now been put in order and plans have been made. We now have a well-founded proposal to ensure the security of delegations, including information security, and healthy work facilities. In the draft budget, we will also focus on promoting exports, including through additional funding for experts in food exports in the network of delegations and the business partnership programme in the framework of development cooperation. My colleague, Mr Virolainen, tells us more about development cooperation. Diplomacy is our first tool, but we must also respond to crises. That is why we are proposing EUR 66.5 million for crisis management. The regional priorities for our participation are Lebanon, Iraq and Afghanistan. We are involved in civilian crisis management, including Ukraine, Iraq, Kosovo and Georgia. UN peacekeeping operations involve between 20 and 30 police forces. Cooperation between the Baltic Sea, Barents and the Arctic region is important for Finland. Our proposal therefore doubles the IBA budget for project cooperation in the Baltic Sea, Barents and Arctic region to EUR 3.4 million. Funding will be allocated to areas where Finland has solid expertise. The key sectors are environmental protection and climate change, including the reduction of black carbon emissions, waste management and circular economy, digital services and intelligent transport, meteorological cooperation, safety and rescue cooperation, education and health. Effective influence requires strong personal investment. The importance of regional cooperation in the Arctic and the Baltic Sea region is emphasised in the current tense international situation. Cooperation within the framework of the Northern Dimension and the Northern Regional Councils — the Arctic Council, the Barents Euro-Arctic Council and the Council of Baltic Sea States — is an important tool for Finland to promote stability, security, sustainable development and cooperation in its neighbourhood. EU-Russia cooperation has become more difficult. However, regional cooperation has continued and continues to provide an effective forum for practical cooperation with Russia on the basis of our own interests, in line with the principles of EU sanctions policy and selective interaction. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u6	Next, Minister of Estonia. — Please, for a maximum of 5 minutes, if possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u7	Madam President! In my presentation, I will focus on development policy and development cooperation as a whole, which also constitutes a lion's share of the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Finally, a word on foreign trade and the promotion of exports. First of all, the big picture of the development budget: EUR 583 million has been budgeted for development cooperation in actual development cooperation, i.e. with our partners, such as domestic and foreign organisations and partner countries, managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of that pot, EUR 172 million will be spent on multilateral development cooperation, particularly through UN organisations and the World Bank Group, EUR 149 million on country and regional development cooperation in our partner countries. Some 73 million have been earmarked for humanitarian aid and an equivalent amount is channelled through the European Development Fund. EUR 65 million will be allocated to Finnish non-governmental organisations for development cooperation, and the majority of this pot goes to around 20 partner organisations with whom we have good and long-term cooperation. These NGOs will also receive project support for both communication and global education projects. We also have EUR 32.5 million of non-national development cooperation, which finances a wide range of projects, including business and innovation partnerships for businesses and universities. In addition, 13 million will be allocated interest subsidies from the Interest Support Instrument, which have been used for a long time, but investment aid for developing countries has also been introduced during this parliamentary term. And another 6 million will be spent on development planning support activities, as well as on important evaluation and audit. In order to give an overall picture of the financing of development cooperation, I will take two additional aspects: EU development cooperation and our own Finnish financial investments: Firstly, Finland finances development cooperation through its membership fee, which is therefore managed by the Union. This contribution does not go through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but when included, Finland's share of EU development assistance amounts to nearly EUR 250 million. We welcome the emphasis in the EU debates on developing the relationship with Africa, creating jobs and addressing the root causes of migration. The second point concerns the financial investment in development policy that has been introduced in parallel with traditional gift aid during this parliamentary term. We all know that the global development challenges are so great that they cannot be met by means and resources of traditional development aid. New partnerships, innovative solutions and funding are therefore needed. For example, Finnfund, the IFC Climate Fund and the Latin American Development Bank. And yet last week a new head start was made by giving EUR 16 million to the newly created Church Foreign Aid company, which is going to finance employment-rich small businesses in Africa and Asia. In other words, this is the first domestic organisation to enter into investment-based development cooperation. Mr President! Finland’s long-term development policy has also been stable. We have highlighted the rights of girls and women, the climate, education and jobs. I'm sure they won't go anywhere in the next few years. As far as development cooperation is concerned, I would like to say that we want to constantly improve our activities. The result report will be presented to Parliament at the turn of October—November, and will show prominently how our performance culture has evolved and how we will strive to develop our operations in the future. Well, at the end of the day, a few words on the other side of the case, i.e. foreign trade: Exports have grown well. The strong growth of world trade creates prospects for our exports, and it is noteworthy in this budget next year that additional resources have been made available to business Finland in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that more investment has been made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to promote exports. Seven export promotion experts, three food export professionals and six training export professionals will continue. For a small, open, highly integrated economy such as Finland, it is absolutely essential that we, together with the EU, promote an open, liberal, rule-based trade policy, and this work will continue without letup. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u8	Thank you, ministers, for the introduction. — Now I ask those representatives who want to ask further questions or comments on this theme, press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u14	We are now holding a half-hour’s debate here, and the emphasis is on the representatives of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u15	Madam President! It is true that Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs has already drawn attention to this funding for development cooperation for many years. It is aimed at gradually rising to 0.7, which is an international objective and which we are really lagging behind. On the other hand, it must be said that what Finland is doing in development cooperation is doing very well. For example, the work that is done in Finnfund is a very good job and should be supported. It is good that the criticisms made a few years ago have now been diluted and Finnfund has gained the status of our development cooperation that it deserves. The second point I would like to raise is that it is quite worrying to maintain our network of representations at the moment because we are paying huge rents for some properties, even rents, that in ten years this property would have been bought. That is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that one or two appropriations should be made available every year to buy a property abroad. This makes economic sense and is also justified by central government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u17	Mr President! Minister Soini spoke in his speech about Finland's contribution to crisis management, and that is all very important and in order. Minister Virolainen mentioned in particular the contribution to Africa, as well as the need to address the root causes of migration. These are issues on which we have heard a lot of ministerial speeches recently, and these are issues on which we fully agree. But I cannot help but wonder, Minister Soini, that when this government was set up, it was then your party's main objectives and one of the fully realised objectives, that Finland's development cooperation was cut by 40% — that is, the very instrument we now need to deal with the problems of Africa and migration. At the same time, you also made it stated in the annex to the Government Programme that Finland would have fewer than 100 soldiers in crisis management tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u18	Madam President! The rights of children and women are a hard core of Finnish foreign and security policy. In our foreign policy, in our development policy, we seek to promote sexual health, women's rights. I vividly remember myself when I presented the maternity kit at the UN Women's Conference. I brought it up and told them that these clothes and these things in this box are used and slept by the children of ministers as well as all other Finns. It caused great confusion and, on the other hand, the prospect of countries worth following. But at the same time, when this has been done, our Foreign Minister, with one mouth, speaks the official line, and with the other mouth speaks completely against our foreign policy line, against the rights of women. So I ask you, Minister Estonian: how do you feel about doing this work when Minister Soini is constantly pulling the rug from under?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u19	Mr President! According to the budget book, the GDP level for development aid will be 0.41% next year, and GDP will increase by 3% this year and by around one and a half per cent annually. The longer-term objective stated in the government budget book is 0.7% of GDP. In a situation where, fortunately, GDP is growing, where the baseline, this 0.41%, is low, we need at least two things: money and political will to solve this equation. So I ask the ministers: what is the path leading to this goal of 0.7, which perhaps now, in the longer term, but nevertheless, is there in the eyes of the ministers?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u20	Mr President! First of all, it is scandalous to hear Minister Soini draw carpet from under women and children. I have known him for 40 years, and Minister Soini, if anyone, defends women and children. So this kind of talk should be stopped. But the root causes of refugees are being helped by crisis management and development cooperation. And we have achieved good results. I would like to ask the Minister for Development: how has this eradication of poverty and inequality come about, and has there been equality for women? Then there are also various projects, such as Finnfund has done a lot of good in Africa, that women can open a bank account and start small businesses and farmers can buy seeds from them. So it's been good in this development cooperation. And I would also like to ask: Is it true that we will have it in October—November?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u21	Mr President! This opening up of the Baghdad embassy involves its own risks because of the security situation, but it is good if it seeks the return of those who have received negative asylum decisions which have refused to return from here, and this is also one of the goals we heard in the Administrative and Security Section this week. This would be a development fund for NGOs, which will be 65 million for the coming year, which has not changed anything. If I remember correctly, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, when it started to fall by more than 40%, there was talk — these development ministers have changed at a high rate here — of trying to achieve a better result, because in time it has been more than EUR 100 million. What are we going to do about this now, because Finnish development cooperation is the one that is transparent, effective and promotes Finnishness in all ways? I'd rather put that money in that direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u22	Mr President! I have a slightly more general political question. The relationship between the EU and Russia is very relevant in a broader sense and, of course, also from the perspective of Finland, but above all globally. The relationship is cool, even cold, for well-known reasons. Bilateral relations have then marked this attitude towards Russia. There have also been individual contributions to the idea that the European Union and Russia should gradually, in time, re-enter the path of partnership. Mr Foreign Minister, what is your assessment of the possibilities of cooperation between the European Union and Russia at the moment, not with a year's focus, but with a little longer? What must happen, what should be done to get on the path we have rebuilt?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u23	Madam President! For the past few years, more support has been promised to NGOs. However, this figure of 65 million has now been spent on several budgets. It would not even have been necessary to increase the budget if, for example, 5 to 10 million were taken from the financial resources and transferred to these NGOs. Now that we have had the opportunity to visit these different countries together with KPT, where this very brilliant development cooperation through Finnish organisations can be seen in practice, it is the most effective and the money will end up just where it is meant to be. What is so difficult, ladies and gentlemen, is that we cannot move more vigorously towards this level of 0.7 to which we have already committed ourselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u24	Mr President! Human rights, especially the rights of women and girls, are at the heart of Finnish foreign policy, and especially in development and development policy Finland has invested a great deal in these. Although development cooperation funds have been drastically cut, efforts have still been made to maintain that this type of project exists, because we know that investing in women's sexual health is extremely important for developing countries and for them to develop so that women can get rid of poverty. However, abortions are widespread, especially in developing countries where it is banned, and this results in a huge number of women, 47,000 women, dying and one million injured each year because of dangerous abortions. That is why it is quite strange that the same ministry should have two messages: on the one hand, our development minister stresses the rights and sexual health of women and girls, while at the same time the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the other hand,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u25	Mr President! My speech relates to the same subject as Mrs Kääriäinen's. After all, relations between Finland and Russia are particularly burdened by the fact that the European Union has imposed tough sanctions on Russia. When these sanctions were decided, Alexander Stubb, then Prime Minister, said that Finland was in the middle caste when the decision was taken. Of course, Finland should have been among those who are pushing for less stringent sanctions, because we have suffered particularly from them, especially in Finland's agriculture. Now there is a growing willingness within the EU to seek a solution to this crisis in Ukraine, a solution that would open up new opportunities for cooperation with Russia. Like Mrs Kääriäinen, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: what is the Finnish Government going to do to bring about a development in this crisis in Ukraine that would open up the possibility of alleviating and lifting sanctions?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u26	Madam President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has drawn attention to the level of development funding — precisely to bring it closer to 0.7. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Development, Mr Estonian, has launched a study on this and we will hear how we can move forward towards this objective in a long-term way. Finland has worked long-term to defend women's rights, and in this period, women's rights, including sexual and reproductive health rights, are our priorities. Many Finns in Finland and the world are working to achieve this goal and improve the position of women. This work that Finns are doing is appreciated in the world because there are far too few advocates and players. That is why I would like to ask both ministers: next week, when we meet in New York at the UN General Assembly, will Finland speak with one voice about women's rights and sexual and reproductive health or with two votes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u27	Mr President! Finland has only one foreign policy, and Finland only has one foreign minister. ‘Reinforcing the values of women and girls’ rights The focus of development cooperation is on strengthening sexual and reproductive health and rights.’ That is what it says, Minister Soini, in this book you sent to Parliament. And you, Minister Soini, have obscured this line. This is not about your views on abortion, it is about what the Finnish Foreign Minister can say when he is in office. Your position is well known to us, but it is now a question of how Parliament evaluates the activities of the Foreign Minister, how representatives of the government parties assess the Foreign Minister's activities in the process of bringing out the basic line of Finnish foreign policy, whether the Finnish Foreign Minister can consciously create:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u28	Let's just stay a minute, and we'll all make it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u29	Mr President! There has been talk here of the effectiveness of development cooperation, and this is where the representative next door said there are some assessments coming up. The Peruvians believe that development cooperation could be more based on impact assessments, so that practical information can be obtained about it. Seriously, that amount of money doesn't always mean results. Money can be shoveled somewhere, and there will be no results. So what kind of indicators do you have, and how could some sort of responsibility for the results be obtained? For example, immigration must be controlled, the environmental infrastructure should be in order, the well-being and equality of girls should actually increase and education should increase, such concreteness. For me and for the Finns, we could start developing a model with concrete indicators, and if not, then there will be no help. That's the way it is with everyone else. What are those gauges you're presenting now? That they're not just round, that's about what's going on here?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u30	Madam President! I draw attention to the same thing as representatives of Kääräinen and Väyrynen, but I am approaching it from the opposite point of view to these heroes of the time of the guilding. [Laughter — Parliament: Ohoh!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u31	Mr President! Finland is the Presidency of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers from the beginning of November. The Council of Europe is currently living in quite a situation because the President had to be changed. However, the President has now been elected. Some Member States do not comply with the agreements reached by the Council of Europe, they are not committed, even though they are members, to implementing them in their own Member State. In this respect, I would like to ask Minister Soin: what priorities does the Foreign Affairs Administration and Foreign Minister have in relation to this Presidency of the Council of Europe? It will take six months, and I hope that, during that time, the resolution of conflicts and crises will be promoted, so that the Council of Europe will also find longer-term objectives in such a way as to calm the situation down. There is now the greatest threat that some Member States may leave the Council, and then we would not be able to promote the important issues in the Council of Europe: human rights, democracy and the promotion of democracy, and then the legal basis for society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u32	Mr President! Minister Virolainen, it is wonderful how you have highlighted this whole area of reproductive and sexual health and Africa in general. There is a link between Africa and Europe on the root causes of refugees, and that is why it is important to find things that affect those root causes and strongly. One key issue is the promotion of women's sexual and reproductive health and the strengthening of their rights and the development of access to and coverage of services as the best means of combating development and improving the status and health of women and children. In fact, this is what it says in this draft budget that has been sent to Parliament, and everyone can stand very strongly behind it. Minister Soini, Finland's foreign policy has been a very firm and long-standing fight for the strengthening of women's and children's rights, including reproductive and sexual health rights — Foreign Minister Judgments and all after him. Now you've obscured this line. Do you think this is correct, Minister Soini?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u33	Madam President! The key is that development policy should finally have a permanent basis. The key principles and policies of Finland's development cooperation policy should be maintained and maintained, hopefully, and more attention will be paid to their implementation. These principles are essential: human rights-based, democratic ownership of developing countries, accountability, transparency, effectiveness and policy coherence in support of development. In order to implement development policy, it is necessary and requires comprehensive work. It is good that this is done across sectoral and sectoral boundaries, and a strong role for the private sector, NGOs and research is also needed. Financing for development cooperation must ensure an increase in the budget to 0.7. I know that this work is being done all the time in the UM, this verification work. I would like to know how the UM has progressed towards this goal of 0.7 in the construction of the taps.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u34	Mr President! A foreign minister, Hillary Clinton, whom I very much admire, has said that women's rights are human rights and human rights are women's rights, and I believe that Finland has also represented us in our foreign policy in the world. A few years ago, when I was in Chile at one of the international women's meetings, I was allowed to represent Finland, and there I found the strange situation that the older men in their Senate discussed whether a woman who has become pregnant as a result of rape could be entitled to abortion. All the absurdity that a woman cannot decide her own body came to me with true eyes. At the same time, I was proud to tell you that we in Finland and the Nordic countries, where abortions are possible in a relatively unlimited way, in fact, the number of abortions has fallen and that this is a wise policy. Minister Soini, you are a thinking person, no matter what. What were you thinking?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u35	Mr President! In his own speech, Minister Soini gave an idea of how to extend the network of bilateral representations in Finland. Good, but is that the only way? In a situation where multilateralism is facing challenges, Finland should significantly see the risks involved and make every effort to promote the operating models of multilateral international cooperation. In this respect, in addition to the bilateral relationship network, we have a number of multilateral options: the UN, the EU, the OSCE, the Arctic Council. Is there any reason to consider that, in addition to these bilateral relations, this economic resource will be increased for this multilateral activity?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u36	Two replies will be made at this stage, then the brief answers of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u37	Mr President! Defending women's and girls' rights is right, and it is also in our own interest. The root causes of conflict and refugee can also be influenced by the fact that women in developing countries can in practice decide how many children and when they want to. Representative Mikkonen has already pointed out that in the world, 47,000 people die each year as a result of illegal, unsafe abortions and one million women become disabled. All of these would be preventable through sexual and reproductive health work, education, access to contraceptives and legal abortion. In El Salvador, women are even imprisoned for up to ten years because of miscarriage. It is incomprehensible that the Finnish Foreign Minister, contrary to the clear and long-term line of Finnish foreign policy, can speak out in favour of such hypocrisy and cruelty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u38	Mr President! Finland’s foreign policy definitely has one and only line. Its core is to improve the position of women and children. It's perfectly obvious. In my opinion, it is possible that, in official contexts, such as the Chamber, the debate about Finland’s supposedly two lines of action could damage Finland’s foreign policy. [Department : Oh! — Laughter from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u39	Representative Laitinen-Pesola still, and then the ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u40	Mr President! The budget book states that the development of civil society in developing countries will be carried out in cooperation with universities, research communities and municipalities. However, the Centre for Solidarity of Finnish Trade Unions (SASK) and its many trade unions are doing a very valuable job in developing countries, specifically by improving the position and rights of those working, and thus also changing society. It has been stated in the impact assessments that the work is very effective. So I ask the Minister: how do you see the importance of the work done by the trade unions and by SASK in the development of civil society?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u41	And then the answers of the ministers. Minister Soini, three minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u42	Madam President! Thank you for your good contributions and for the analytical questions. I will begin by responding to the Judge in charge of crisis management tasks: It will be implemented in accordance with the priorities of the Finnish Foreign and Security Policy Report. We are currently participating in nine military crisis management operations with a total of some 500 soldiers and 110 experts in civilian crisis management. We are participating through UNIFIL in Lebanon, through the Isil coalition in Iraq and through NATO Resolute Support in Afghanistan. It's not a little bit. This is a lot.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u53	Minister Estonian, up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u54	Madam President! Many of the speeches here raised concerns about how to achieve the 0.7 target and what timetable. I am glad that this concern seems to be shared. As Mrs Wallin said, we need money, we need political will. It seems that the expression of political will has now been very strongly expressed here. To the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: we are having a debate with you on 18 October. When Mr Paloniemi asked what progress has been made in this exercise, these exercises will be carried out on a continuous basis and Excel will be run for the money. In fact, the decision belongs to the next government, but we are working on the basis that the conditions for decision-making exist. Finnfund only makes the point that Finnfund works to create sustainable jobs in developing countries and the most vulnerable countries and to achieve climate impacts and also to improve the position of girls and women. And as a reminder, there is a constant external evaluation of Finnfund as to whether or not it will be carried out in accordance with the objectives, and so far they have been an excellent performance assessment. Addressing the root causes of migration, promoting the rights and status of women and girls and training are the starting point for all of our activities. In the same way, efforts are also being made to help these societies develop in such a way that jobs are created in those countries and economic conditions are in place there. There will also be cooperation to stabilise societies and to ensure the sustainable use of natural resources. The issue of sexual and reproductive health was raised by a few speakers. After all, the official line of Finnish foreign policy is that every woman and girl must be able to decide on their own body. That line has not changed in the course of this government, and I hope that the next government will continue to do so. When questions were asked as to whether some kind of report is coming, I now have a proofreading version in my hands. And yes, Mr Meri, you will be able to find out in detail in this report how many women have come to sexual and reproductive health services with the support of our cooperation or how many Somalis have been trained by Finns for safe births. Everything is detailed here, 100 pages of strict text. Then there are two things: the SASK is doing an extremely important job. Sometimes, with Mr Filatov, I have access even to see how the effects have been made in India. And then, Mr Niikko, when you asked for additional support for NGOs — and I think someone else was talking about it — I would point out that, together with NGOs, programme support has been developed, which criteria are. All of its activities focus on effectiveness. Only activities that produce results will be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u55	Now to the list of speakers. If there's time, then we'll continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u56	Mr President, Fru talman! The promotion of human rights has been an integral part of Finland’s foreign policy in recent decades. Human rights also include the rights of women and girls, including the right to decide on their own body and reproduction. Unfortunately, equality and respect for women's rights are not commonplace in all countries of the world. Forced women to give birth, including in the face of abuse, rape and the variety of difficulties in human life, is commonplace, especially in many developing countries. The UN's many contributions recognise women's and girls' rights. Finland has consistently presented and promoted them. Mr Soin's work on women's rights and his statements on abortion have turned things upside down. Minister Soini has said on several occasions, and on various occasions, that he does not accept the undivided rights of women, including the right to decide on their own body. Abortion is always an undesirable thing, but it is even more undesirable for women to be denied the right to their own body and the right to decide whether to continue pregnancy. According to the Constitution, the Foreign Minister has the power to make foreign policy statements in Finland. Foreign Minister Soini repeatedly puts forward positions contrary to Finland's established foreign policy line, which recognizes women's rights. It is obvious that the credibility of our line in this respect in the eyes of the foreign powers is being called into question. Minister Soini has called for his freedom of opinion and for his appearance to take place as if in leisure time. The Foreign Minister's statements therefore mean that he reserves the right to continue to act in violation of the broad public support line approved by Parliament. Foreign Minister Soini has received legal complaints from the Chancellor of Justice. Indeed, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not just a foreign minister in terms of office time. Minister Soin is, of course, entitled to his own opinions, but he has now brought them up in a way that contradicts Finland's foreign policy line. In particular, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is expected to present himself abroad as the spokesperson of the Finnish line, not as the overturner. Without regard to the party position, the activities of the Foreign Minister have raised concerns and legitimate criticisms. When, on the basis of the Minister's statements, it is possible for him to continue his questionable activities, Parliament's position on the matter is necessary. I therefore propose that Parliament approve the following motion of censure: ‘Minister for Foreign AffairsSoin’s external relations rights and That is why I propose that Parliament states that Minister Soini does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament.”
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u57	Madam President! ‘If oneday in Natoon were to go, we would generally increase our That is what Prime Minister Alexander Stubb said on 8 August 2014 — Prime Minister. There was no record in the Government Programme that Finland's membership of NATO would increase Finland's security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u62	Mr President! I hope that the Foreign Minister will: The questioners of Soin's confidence would tell us exactly what the foreign policy line from which Mr Soin is alleged to have deviated and which causes such a strong disapproval. The report on foreign and security policy does not say a word about abortion, nor does this budget book, which we are dealing with here specifically for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are talking about women's and girls' rights, we are talking about reproductive and sexual health, and I personally sign these objectives and I believe that Minister Soini will also sign them. I understand that some people in this Chamber interpret free abortion as part of the rights of women and girls, but equally others interpret the right to life as a primary right for a child in the womb, for a girl and for a boy. Mr Arhinmäki, I would like to say one more thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u63	Madam President! As has already been said in several speeches today, the rights of girls and women and equality play a key role in the world in terms of development, and we cannot afford to destabilise this work at all. Finland and our representatives must act clearly and defend the rights of girls in all contexts. I would like to ask Minister Soin: how can we ensure in the future that the extremely important work to be done on the rights of girls and at the same time that Finland's reputation will continue to be damaged by things such as your abortion comments? We have not yet received an answer to this in your reply. The minister is a minister around the clock, 24/7.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u65	Mr President! In this debate, it has become clear what the Finnish foreign policy line is in this regard, [of the Blue Group :Thon! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u70	Would Mr Soini like to speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u71	Madam President! Let me just say briefly that I have been in politics for 30 years, I am a Catholic Christian. To date, it has not disturbed this hall or Finland. I hope that from now on it will not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u74	Now, unfortunately, the time has come for us to have a change of minister and sector, that is, Minister Niinistö. Minister Niinistö will launch a debate in his own region, with a presentation of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u75	Madam President! For the first time, the defence administration's section will rise by more than EUR 3 billion. In previous years, representatives have been interested in how much GDP is covered by the Ministry of Defence. Thanks to this 9% increase, the share will rise to 1.29% of GDP next year. The rise is 0.6 percentage points compared to 1.23% this year. But if defence expenditure were to be calculated in accordance with NATO's formula, as the Committee on Defence has in fact required, military crisis management expenditure, military pensions and part of the expenditure of the Border Guard, defence would be about 0.2 percentage points higher than gross domestic product, or 1.5%. The Government's proposal for a defence budget for next year is EUR 31380000000. It is EUR 451 million more than the previous bad government left this good government with its legacy four years ago. That is why, as Minister of Defence, I am pleased to present the government's proposal. Compared to last year, the biggest additions are the launch of the Navy vessel acquisition, the Fleet 2020 project, with EUR 260 million. An increase of EUR 20 million will be made in the procurement of materials, in accordance with the parliamentary study group chaired by Mr Kanerva. The Intelligence Act receives EUR 10 million, and nearly 6 million goes to increase the number of personnel of the Defence Forces. Mr President! I shall now go a little further into these changes. In accordance with the Government Programme, the Defence Forces’ material procurement level will therefore be increased by EUR 20 million and will thus amount to a total of EUR 130 million next year. This is to increase to EUR 150 million by 2020 and should remain at that level in the next decade. This will ensure the development of the Army alongside the strategic projects of the Air and Navy. It is often incorrect to hear that strategic projects, i.e. the already mentioned Fleet 2020 and the HX project intended to replace the Air Force Hornets, jeopardise the development of the Army. That is not the case. The financing of strategic projects will be subject to normal funding, so it is a matter of separate funding. [Left: No!] The Government's proposal includes the EUR 50 million level increase launched last year in order to improve the preparedness. According to the report I have received, that amount will go up to the last cent this year and there will be a need for it in the future. The additional costs of increasing the new powers required by the future Intelligence Act and the related additional staff needs, training costs and equipment and systems procurement will be fully covered by the additional costs of approximately EUR 10 million. The urgency of the entry into force of the intelligence laws has not disappeared and, as the government has proposed, funding has now been secured in this respect. The Government's proposal includes EUR 5.7 million to increase the number of Defence Forces personnel by 100 new posts and EUR 2 million to recruit contract soldiers. These measures will alleviate the shortage of Defence Forces personnel, which the Committee on Defence has also been concerned about. The shortage of staff has been reflected in the problems of staff coping. There is additional need for staff in all defence branches, in all personnel groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u76	Let's go to the debat. Those who wish to ask further questions or comments on this theme will be asked to stand up and reserve the floor with a V button. Debatin will be initiated by the Chairman of the Defence Committee, Mr Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u77	Mr President! The Minister went through some of the development landscapes on the radar that should be more central to considering the direction of future development needs. It is certainly as you say in your own speech: it is necessary for us to develop staff numbers, also because resources are currently in extreme use. But there is also the view that The Defence Forces, as it were, are constantly required to take new action in the defence spirit. In my view, Finland should not only carry out the research mentioned by the Minister during the next term of government, but should also be prepared to ensure that the obligation to defend the country — which is the responsibility of every Finnish citizen, not only for male conscripts, but for every Finnish citizen — can also be developed in a way that would enable a Finnish model of some kind to be created to be implemented through the entire age group. It is a major reform which will also require a special political backbone and support for this work, and I would ask the Minister to applaud this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u78	Madam President! I am personally very pleased that the government has decided to add: Armed forces personnel with 100 officers — or officers, whatever, but with 100 in any case. This is a good proposal, and I would also like to say that we Social Democrats have already tabled this last year. I'm glad the government has taken this on. I personally received a lot of positive and encouraging feedback from the Defence Forces staff last year when I was doing this, and even then I said that this would be a Band-Aid, as the Minister said, or one might say that even a chewing ground, into the gap we have in the lack of trainers. The size of the training gap is estimated to be around 400, so now only a quarter of that hole is being filled. But I would also like to support the Minister's proposal to set up a parliamentary working party to reflect on this issue. Mr Kanerva's working group for 2014-2015 achieved a great deal,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u79	President! Last year, in this same debate, I raised the question that, now that the refresher exercises were lifted up after the break, is it possible that there is a shortage of trainers, in other words the trainers' information is not up-to-date, and as a minister you admitted that this is very possible. Have you heard of the fact that, fortunately this year, refresher exercises have been added, that there were these problems, that trainers were not exactly up to date with the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u80	Madam President! First of all, congratulations to the Minister for the Grand Cross of the Order of North Star, the highest attention of the Order of Sweden! This may indicate that cooperation between Finland and Sweden has taken a great leap forward during this parliamentary term. The Navy and the Air Force practice regularly, plan things together, there has been much more concrete. What has been said in previous years has now become a practice. Two similar and similar militarily non-aligned countries — this cooperation is worth seeking, it is worth going as far as possible. However, good cooperation does not mean that self-defence can be reduced. Therefore, the whole of Finland's general military service and reserve are the starting points. The very central part of our defence is that we have staff who are well and able. That is why I also warmly support the Minister's suggestion that this should be dealt with by Parliament and that it should be prepared for further action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u81	Madam President! Minister Niinistö, you have said that there are no problems in the Finnish arms trade and that Finnish equipment and weapons are not used for attacks on civilians in Yemen, for example. Patria's crewcars have been seen in the battles in Yemen. What are you saying, Minister Niinistö? Do you still believe that there are no problems with the Finnish arms trade? This is something that you were not terribly interested in when we asked about the use of these weapons in the world. Now that new information has come, have you updated your view?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u82	Madam President! Indeed, the Defence Forces have been struggling with staff shortages for years. The message of the Defence Forces has been the urgent need for personnel, including training tasks. I would like to thank the government for increasing the funding of the Ministry of Defence in its draft budget. In particular, the creation of 100 new posts in the Defence Forces is extremely important. However, a large part of the budget for the Defence Forces goes to real estate costs. The Minister of Defence himself has taken a good stand on this. The Defence Forces should regain control of their estates from Senate properties or at least bring the costs of the properties to an actual level. Of course, this applies to other security properties, not solely for the Defence Forces. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether these annual costs of security property will be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u83	Mr President! The Department of Defense has had a secret communication plan in place for years. At least STT and Helsingin Sanomat have reported on it. Its aim has been to ensure that citizens, the media and politicians do not question strategic arms procurement. In other words, the largest arms acquisition in the history of Finland, at least EUR 10 billion at the starting point, should not be called into question. The taxpayers' money has a propaganda machine built inside the administration, which is trying to directly influence, among other things, this house, that there would be no open civil dialogue and debate in this Chamber about this acquisition. At least I still have such a naive notion that in a democracy it is the civilians who decide, not the soldiers. When you were just talking about these strategic procurements, you were talking about separate funding. There is no such separate funding, it is a question of taxpayers' tax euros and debt money. The same money that is spent on all other expenditure in the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u84	Mr President! One of the cornerstones of the Finnish defence policy doctrine is a sufficiently large, well-trained reserve and, of course, the general military service, which must be constantly developed, and it would be interesting to hear the Minister's ideas on the development options presented here throughout the year. But one characteristic of this trained reserve is, of course, that it is being trained. While the level of re-examination exercises in the Reserve has rightly and decisively been raised in recent years — this is a very good thing — based on a column in the Budget Book, this increase seems to have stagnated to the level of 2017. Perhaps the numbers will be specified yet, but at least on page 271 is this kind of table that next year would be 18,000 reserve members to be trained. Does the Minister think that this level is sufficient, or should we still try to raise it to the level that existed perhaps 15 years ago?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u85	Madam President! On 1 January 2017, the insurance cover of those in crisis management was adjusted and they will receive compensation in the event of death or disability. The same kind of law will also enter into force with regard to conscripts next year, i.e. 1 January 2019, is linked to this budget. 116 Members of Parliament signed a bill on this subject and I thank you for the possibility that it will come into force. I ask you, Minister: how can you see whether the law could be applied retrospectively, for example, until 1 January 2017, when people who have been through hard times during that period might be compensated? Among other things, I am raising this unfortunate train accident at Raasepor. I'll check with the garrison per diem. What do you think? Is that enough? And then the military's indoors problems, Minister, are we going to do anything about them? We have to do something about them. Do you keep track and count of the soldiers who have fallen ill, and what is the real situation there? Yes, it's catastrophic. There's a message like that. There have even been moldy mattresses. Is that true?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u86	Mr President! Two questions to the Minister. First of all, you referred to this new parliamentary working group which would examine the suitability of the staff in relation to the increased and increasing tasks of the Defence Forces. That minus 2400 is, of course, a hard hit. You're absolutely right about that. Tell me, more or less, the fork that you estimate would be appropriate and sufficient to carry out the tasks of the Defence Forces in the 2020s — just about that fork, tell me. Question number two: Let us talk a lot about civic service. This was also referred to by the President, Mr Kanerva, in his own speech. The pressure to promote this issue from all sides seems to be growing slowly and slowly. In your opinion, what is the best way forward to resolve this issue so that the idea that has been put forward in it could come about without Finland’s military defence capability weakening or collapsing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u87	Madam President! Women are a huge asset which, unfortunately, remains largely untapped in our Defence Forces. At the moment, there is no need for compulsory military service for women from the point of view of military defence, nor does there have the resources to do so, but there is a need to extend invitations, and the need for civil service has been well raised here. Women are definitely the wrong source of savings that should not be spared in this context. But I would ask the Minister how to get more and more women to play their part on behalf of our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u88	Madam President! A strong will goes through a gray stone, a camel goes through the eye of a needle. It's about what kind of will mode you have to have. Minister Niinistö, you have been the most effective Minister of Defence this millennium. During your activities, the army's self-esteem about its own ability to act has improved significantly, and now the captain is speaking. Matti Torvinen, too. You have created excellent contacts with NATO, the neighbouring country of Sweden and also with the EU countries. But what is essential is that the rent level of the Defence Forces and the military is still a very painful subject. That Senate capital model will take up one third of the defence budget by 2020. What are you going to do about this which may undermine our defence?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u89	Madam President! I want to thank Secretary of Defense Niinistö. During your time, Finland's security has been strengthened and our position has also been strengthened as part of the West and also significantly updated to meet today's threats, both in terms of providing help and receiving. It is also important that we take care of the equipment: Squadron 2020, HX as well as the assault rifle renewal project, where hopefully a Finnish factor would also be found for the assault rifles of the future. I would also like to thank the defence organisations for budgeting the money they need. We don't have to fix it here anymore, because the Secretary of Defense. Niinistö has made sure that the money is now in the budget, as it should be there. I would also like to thank you for taking care of our old soldiers. You have played an important role in bringing all the veterans of our wars now to the same line and to the last night’s cry to worry about them — thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u90	Mr President! From the point of view of Lapland and Finland as a whole, it is very important that a rapid railway connection can be opened through Salla and Kantalahti to Russia. This would provide a cheap and fast connection to the Arctic Ocean, Murmansk port and the entire Russian railway network through the north. It has been argued that the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence are opposed to the construction of this rail link for strategic reasons. This is difficult to understand when we already have two other rail links to Russia in areas of much greater strategic importance. I would like to ask you, Minister for Defence: Is that correct? Could you support the construction of this important rail link? After all, many times this project is being contrasted with the rail links that are being drawn through Norway. It should be noted that the Salla-Kantalahti link costs so little that it can be implemented quickly in any case, as long as Russia is also interested.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u91	Madam President! Finland's arms trade and equipment trades have raised a lot of criticism, and rightly so. Finland has purchased weapons from Israel, which is engaged in military action with the Palestinians, and on the other hand, Finnish weapons have been exported time and again to Saudi Arabia and the Arab Emirates, which are involved in the civil war in Yemen, the bloodiest, most terrible civil war of the day. It is estimated that more than 100,000 children will die in Yemen by the end of this year if nothing is done — 100,000 children — and Finnish crew carriers manufactured by Patria have been seen armed in these military operations. Your special assistant responded to this criticism that domestic employment was at the forefront. Is it really the case, even after many written questions, that you do not think there is any problem with the fact that Finns
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u92	Madam President! Thank you, Minister. For women, very firm tasks in the field of defence management. Two years ago, I asked a written question about the interior problems of the garrison of Niinisalo, and you also showed good firmness and put many things in a better position with regard to their properties. But now it has been brought to my attention that the building of the rocket launcher company in Niinisalo garrison suffers from internal problems. As we have heard before, these indoor problems are very important to put in place in the various garrisons, and, as you have demonstrated in the past, I have great confidence that this issue will also be put in order in the garrison of Niinisalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u93	Mr President! It must be said to Mr Arhinmäki that Israel has the right and duty to protect its citizens as the only democratic state in the Middle East from terrorism and hatred and all the horror that faces their citizens and has constantly faced them. In that sense, it is wrong to equate these things with one another, such as arms exports or the purchase of a gun in Israel. We must remember that Israel has the best technology in the world. Even our cell phones and computers would not work without the technology they provide, as they do now, let alone not exploit their technological skills in the war industry. Mr President! The question is that when Finland has a very good, credible defence, a voluntary defence, it also needs credible equipment. In what way has it been estimated that HX and Fleet 2020 projects benefit Finnish industry and Finnish expertise and development? Then we must remember that we now have a defence fund, EUR 11.5 billion to be allocated within the EU, which will be distributed between 2021 and 2027.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u94	Madam President! Europe's defence and security are currently in a very large phase of transformation and transformation, which has not been there for twenty years. There are a wide range of major initiatives that want to make European defence more effective and we are also talking about fundamental issues, such as the interpretation of Article 42.7 of the Treaty of Lisbon. What do you think the role of Finland is now in this process, which now adds to this initiative by Mr Macron and many others? In what way do you see that Finland should approach this question, and what do you think we should pursue there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u95	Eleven replies have now been requested here, and they will all be taken in the order in which they have been requested. Then the Minister's reply, and then we go to the list of speakers for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u96	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for these 100 man-years. Those numbers of people will be very much needed, because we have discussed in committee how to cope with this. The change in the security environment requires the continuous development of preparedness forces, as well as the development of new intelligence, cyber defence and remote action capabilities, i.e. they always take money. New legal projects have been launched during the ministry’s term of office, and I would like to ask, among other things, what stage is the repeal of the Act on the Liberation of Jehovah’s Witnesses, the law on the ownership of foreign properties, and dual citizenship. Another thing I have been driving since 1980 is the repatriation money. I would ask, for example, how much would it cost to give everyone EUR 300, and does it seem quite impossible from the point of view of the Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u97	Madam President! The Minister must be acknowledged that he has maintained key defence priorities. The credible defence and defence of the entire country have certainly been at the heart of the decision-making process. I'd like to ask you about these refresher exercises, too. However, from the point of view of the will to defend the country, it has been one of the most important things that the number of refresher exercises has been increased. Do you think this 18500 is right now, as Mrs Wallin asked? It's important. Then the question of this crisis management: Peacekeeping costs a lot, and Finland is involved in a lot of countries, many sites. Do you think it might be worth thinking about focusing on specific jobs in certain areas and not being around the world? It's always expensive when we go with it. Then the question: When the North Karelia Brigade was closed down, the regional office in Joensuu was confirmed and founded. However, there is now concern in the province that the regional office will be reduced. What is the Minister's position on this? Is this really happening?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u98	Madam President! I agree with these thanks to the Minister, which have been expressed here in the Chamber. With determined action, you have been able to develop our defence and the Defence Forces to meet today's challenges and situation. But there are a few questions. The will to defend the country is one of the cornerstones of national defence and, in order for that will to exist, there should be information on national defence matters. There is little indication now that, especially for women, there is less awareness of national defence issues than before, for example, due to the fact that more and more people do not have a contact surface for a generation of veterans, for example, and so on. What could be done to promote it so that more and more Finns know how necessary our defence is, and what can they do about it? I would also like to ask about the EU's defence cooperation: there is no real hard defence cooperation coming, but what smaller projects could be under way in terms of development, in which we could be involved?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u99	Mr President! Israel is an occupying country with daily violations of human rights in its occupied territories. Israel has also repeatedly extended settlements in the occupied territories in violation of the Geneva Conventions, i.e. the rules of international law, and has also caused a very serious humanitarian crisis in Gaza as a result of this blockade against Gaza. The Left Alliance is of the opinion that Finland should not engage in arms trafficking with states that repeatedly engage in acts contrary to international law, violations of human rights or war. Like Mr Arhinmäki, I would now like to hear the views of the Minister of Defence on the current guidelines for the Finnish arms trade. This week, too, news reports have come to light that Patria's crew wagons have been used in battles in Yemen. In other words, does the Minister see that there is room for a review of the line when there is repeated information that Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u100	Mr President! The size of the armed forces has decreased, which, of course, is perhaps a little too large for the army to need to be trained in military service. However, the Defence Forces would be able to train young people who would receive a heavy goods vehicle licence during the training. These primary school graduates, who do not have any other qualifications, would be a pretty good success factor in the labour market, and there would also be work available for young people of this type. I understand that this issue is not in itself funded by the Defence Forces alone, but there should be a debate within the government as to whether the good educational opportunities available for the Defence Forces to carry out driving licences, to make wider use of them and to improve employment for those young people who are now most easily excluded from the labour market could be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u101	Madam President! It is quite right that the Secretary of Defense should receive positive feedback. There are many things that we in the Parliamentary Committee on Defence have taken forward through extensive cooperation. Government—Opposition is the best front for defence when working together. But there are, of course, things in which we also disagree, and the emphasis is different, so that, of course, a much too rosy picture should not be given. One of the roses of the shadow side of this is that when it is said that there will be 100 new soldiers in the Defence Forces, the trainers, the reality is not quite so, at least, according to the information I have received. In the same context, we are abandoning 100 contract soldiers, so in practice — and I now want to make sure that the information I have received is correct — we are, of course, in a situation where there is no quantitative increase. It's an increase in quality. Of course, quality is necessary and supported in this context. Minister, why did this take so long? This hole has been seen for many years. Who opposed this patching up? The Treasury Department?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u102	Madam President! After all, the material, the staff and the activities must traditionally be balanced, and in fact I would ask the Minister, as we go to the next decade, how do you see this situation? The scale cup is equipped with frameworks and a so-called JTS billion, which is going to cut the funding for defence heavily in the next decade, and this in proportion to the fact that the number of staff should even be increased and we have huge material supplies ahead of us. Is this possible at all for the defence administration, or should new decisions be made on this by next decade? I would like to thank you for the funding of national defence organisations. It is now in line with the fact that, in connection with the budget initiatives, Parliament does not need to make up for this appropriation, but that it is now in a position to plan next year's activities on the basis of the right appropriations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u103	Mr President! It is warm to hear the report by the Minister of Defence that the Government has fully implemented the parliamentary working party's financing proposal for the Defence Forces. These 100 new posts in education and training are needed, although they do not, of course, yet meet all the objectives that should be pursued there. Then I would have asked about this when, a few years ago, there was talk of Finland's state of preparedness that it did not fully meet the level that the countries of faster preparedness currently have. If Finland is threatened, this additional funding of EUR 50 million will be available for this. Do you think that's enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u104	Madam President! At the very beginning of this comment by Mr Nikon, when he mentioned that Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East, that is, of course, not true. There is also Lebanon, which is a democracy, but this is it now. I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for his very good work, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva. It has been a pleasure to be on the Committee on Defence for three years now and to see how this is going. I must say that there is a common cause in Finland, regardless of the party position, which is, of course, great, and that is how it should be. I have about ten years of experience in Middle East civilian crisis management and also in peace-keeping. It is great that there is currently an investment in training. And this is the first question for the Minister of Defence: is this training export in these police and military areas perhaps to be increased and money put into it in the future? We're very good at it. And the second question: are you going to stick to the dual nationality requirement, even though apparently, according to public information, Minister Mykkänen, for example, is not very enthusiastic about it? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u105	Mr President! Discontinuations of military service are just over 11 per cent, and the single biggest cause is mental disorders and intoxicants. I would like to ask the Minister: in what way The Defence Forces have taken note of this problem and the support of the garrisonmen also during the military service, so that as many as possible could complete the service, and how, on the other hand, have medical guidance been arranged for those soldiers who have to stop at that early stage?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u106	Madam President! Israel is indeed illegally occupying settlements and violating human rights, and therefore there should be no arms trade with such a country. The Minister of Defence himself has justified this arms trade by being practically tested, which, in my opinion, reflects a rather cold thinking. Madam President! Yemen's civil war has been going on for a long time. Nevertheless, Finland has continued to issue export licences to the UAE, even after it has become known earlier through the Norwegian Broadcasting Service that Patria's crew transport wagons have been used there. Since then, even this summer, new export licences have been issued, even though it is known that there is a major humanitarian crisis, a terrible situation, and yet even Article 7.7 of the Arms Trade Agreement allows for this, and in fact obliges that if new information comes, the authorisation will be re-evaluated. Why on earth have you not done that when you have received written questions about it, there is evidence that everyone sees that the situation in Yemen is a completely catastrophic humanitarian disaster?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u107	Mr Pelkonen, and then there is the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u108	Mr President! In the context of the pension reform, the retirement age of the soldiers also increased and the impact of this on military trained leaders and experts of the wartime forces resulted in a significant deficit. When this issue was discussed, there was a reserve compensation system on the table, and when I have not heard anything about the preparation of this matter since then, I would like to ask the Minister what the situation is in this regard at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u109	Then there's the Minister's answer. You can answer for that place, not more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u110	Madam President! Thank you for your thanks and thank you for your support for this. For the parliamentary group, which might consider the need for an increase in the number of Defence Forces staff, which could then produce material for decision-making. In the same way — as Mrs Kanerva pointed out, or in fact a few other representatives raised this point — this section of civil service could well be clarified. And when asked how such a process is progressing, the starting point must, of course, be that all the things that dissipate military service are reprehensible. In other words, mainly voluntary women and men who, for health reasons, cannot perform their military service could be able to do this civic service. At the same time, the development of civil service needs to be examined in order to meet the needs of the crisis period, or the total abandonment of civil service. But these are big issues, and I am sure that every party, now that it is doing its electoral programmes, will take a stand on these, and then the government negotiations will decide on that. Mr Kivelä asked about the lack of trainers during the refresher exercises, and there were a few other questions about the refresher exercises, at least from Mrs Wallin and Mrs Reijos. For us, this level of refresher training is satisfactory, this fair 18,000 is not good. I have tried to increase it with determination, but the situation is that the number of people on board will not produce any more. One might even wonder if training aid could be found in the reserve, but that is a question of its own. We strive to increase this number of personnel in the Defence Forces, and to increase the level of refresher exercises. That is a clear objective. There were more than one question about the arms trade, from the representatives Yanar, Arhinmäki and Andersson — not surprising in themselves. After all, we have a clear, clear line, as already defined in the Government Programme: Finland maintains extensive competence related to key performance and sufficient security of supply and the defence industry. The defence forces alone cannot keep an adequate defence industry, let alone security of supply. So this is how we get expertise in Finland. In the Defence Report, export conditions and internationalisation of domestic industry are supported, and Finland complies with national legislation and international commitments in all arms exports. The granting of an authorisation is always based on a case-by-case overall assessment, which also assesses the reliability of the end-user. For example, we do not know about this case of the AMV wagons of the United Arab Emirates, whether it is the AMV batch of paragraph 5 sent ten years ago or whether it is the AMV batch of paragraph 40 sold in 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u113	Perhaps further questions arose from this speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u114	Madam President! I would like to ask you again about these contract soldiers when it has been said here at the Minister's mouth that the number of people will increase by one hundred. Is it correct for me to know that in the same context, 100 contract soldiers will be abandoned when 100 trained trainers, officers, sub-commanders, are taken over? Then, on the same occasion, I would also like to remind you of this importance for the defence equipment industry. Finland does not sell weapons to warring countries. Of course, as the Minister said, we should go through this matter carefully, but at the same time we must bear in mind that we have a fairly sustainable export licensing system through cooperation between the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Defence Administration, which looks at these export permits. And if I have understood correctly, I understand that there are also negative issues concerning export licences this season. Finland is not participating in the war and is not going to export weapons to warring countries — it is right — but in the same context we must take care of our own industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u115	Mr President! I now have to justify this argument as to why Israel is the only functioning democracy in the Middle East. There is freedom of religion for all citizens, however, regardless of ethnic origin or sexual orientation, regardless of where freedom and one kind of rights and obligations exist. In that sense, I do not hope that there will be a policy here in Parliament in which we are trying to isolate Israel from some of the things that the left-wing groups are proposing here. During the last parliamentary term, we heard that even the fruit produced in Israel, such as the Jaffa oranges, should be thrown into the boycott. This boycott movement, which has been born in the world, is precisely this kind of left-wing ideology that Israel would want to be excluded from international communities and many other activities. In that sense, I would like to see a more constructive approach to Israel and Palestine in this respect. We cannot solve it from here in Finland when no one else has been able to solve it so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u116	Mr President! At the moment, if history is written about this time, Finland will develop its own military capabilities significantly, not only by resourcing more to our strategic projects, but also by increasing international cooperation exceptionally quickly and extensively. Both tracks must, of course, be made in a way that strengthens Finland’s military performance. They must be based on our national needs. How does the Minister see on the long side how the significant expansion of international cooperation, increasing in various forms of networking, has contributed to the prospects of Finland’s military performance, and how does the Finnish participation in the possible international military exercises reflect this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u117	Mr President! This is the Secretary of Defense. Niinistö actually responded to this criticism of the arms trade only by talking about the needs of the defence industry, but Finland also has national legal, EU-level and international obligations which also regulate the arms trade and which very clearly state that arms should not be subject to export authorisation in the case of a country with armed conflict or the likelihood of such a conflict. And it also states that arms export licences should not be granted to countries where serious violations of human rights have been found or where there is a risk that military equipment sold could be used for repression. I would now like to ask the Minister: is it really the case that your view is that these conditions are not met, for example, in the case of the Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia? We know, and we have now repeatedly received, evidence that these carriages, for example, are actually being used in the war in Yemen, so there seems to be some kind of conflict between practice and these obligations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u118	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this presentation and also for the fact that, at least in the right direction, more funding has been given to national defence organisations. I would like to ask you about this quality of our special forces — the paratrooper school and the coastal ice school, but also the special training on cybersecurity. There are some small entries in this budget that we should continue to do so. Can you open this up a little without breaking the military secret?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u119	Mr President! I ask about the interruptions of the garrison: has the training of the garrison paid attention to the mental support of the garrison during the training? The second thing about these interruptions is these indoor air problems. Could you consider that the Senate properties would publish these real estate condition reports in the same way as many municipalities have done? Openly telling fitness reports on these different buildings could calm the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u120	Mr President! The Minister did not have time to answer my simple and brief question about the opening of the Salla-Kantalahti rail link. After all, there are railway projects in the north through Norway, but they take a very long time to implement, they cost a lot of money. This Salla-Kantalahti link costs perhaps 10% of what these projects go through Norway. We could quickly get through Murmansk to the Arctic Ocean. When the northern maritime connection to Asia opens, this is of great economic importance. In addition, there will be a link to the Russian broad rail network, which will help tourism. From there timber can be imported into emerging wood processing plants. Otherwise, this connection will also play an important role for the northern industry. It is impossible for me to understand that there are strategic reasons to oppose this project. Could the Minister agree with me and say that he is in favour of this project being carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u121	Let us take the following speeches, these are the last at this stage, and then the Minister's answer for 2 minutes: Arhinmäki, Salolainen, Raatikainen, Savola and Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u122	Madam President! Syrian President Bashar al-Assad is probably legally elected and the legal ruler of Syria continues to do terrible things to his own people, a tyrant, a terrible ruler. But with this logic of yours, Minister Niinistö, when you said they were there at the invitation of a legitimate administration, Finland could apparently even export weapons to Syria because Bashar al-Assad is, however, a legitimate ruler. Madam President! Saudi Arabia-led coalition, where the UAE is another strong factor, has been responsible in Yemen for bombing civilians, air bombings, school-going children have died in bombings. I repeat that it is estimated that as many as 100,000 children will die because of this humanitarian crisis this year. Can you really, really hand-to-hand say that there is no problem in Yemen, that weapons can continue to be exported there,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u123	Madam President! The Minister did not have time to answer the question of the general development of European defence and security policy, which is now starting to deepen defence policy cooperation in another way and in a more urgent manner than has been the case so far. I understand that it would take quite a long story, but if you can briefly describe the main points here in your and Finland's goals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u124	Madam President! The Minister obviously did not have time to answer my question properly either. The question concerned this possible transfer of training in relation to military skills and, of course, police skills, although it does not belong directly to the defence administration, i.e. would it perhaps be possible to extend this activity, because we are actually good at it? I know that from experience. The second question concerned this dual nationality requirement, whether the Minister intends to stick to what I think would be desirable. The third is just a comment. Mr Niikko again said about this issue of Israel. However, Lebanon is a democracy now. My wife went there a few months ago to vote — I think there are more parties there than there are in Israel. I've lived in Gaza. I must say that in these matters, representatives of Arhinmäki and Andersson seem to be quite well aware of what is happening in those parts of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u125	Madam President! With regard to the Finnish defence industry and the export of defence products, I have to ask whether Finland is in some way an exception within the EU countries. Are we in any way exporting more, or are we the only ones exporting to these countries, which is what the left and the Greens are referring to here, among others, in their own speeches? When you mirror Sweden, for example, I understand that Sweden's arms exports are many times higher, and also to these same countries. Similarly, within the EU, France, Germany, are major arms exporters because of their large arms industry. In the same vein, I would also like to ask what Mrs Salolainen was referring to about the development of EU defence. Material cooperation there is a key element in the development of EU defence. How to ensure that the Finnish defence industry manages in this EU market, that these large industrial giants, the large countries do not eat our industry and that their products do not always get ahead of us, but that our defence industry, too,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u126	Madam President! Representative Savola pointed out that other countries would somehow sell more weapons to certain countries and also started talking about the EU dimension. So it's not an argument, or it's a pretty cold way of thinking that if others do, then we should do it. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence whether I understand correctly that the Minister of Defence is not going to make any report on this week's news regarding the freight wagons from Yemen. So I understand that you are not going to do anything about it — is that really the case? — because what you just said was quite a misconception of the debate. You were talking about the fact that we don't know if that's a carriage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u127	And then the minister will answer. Is three minutes enough? - You better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u128	Mr President! Unfortunately, I was unable to answer all the questions the previous time. I'm trying to patch it up. For the second time, Congressman Kari asked about these contract soldiers. They will not be abandoned, even if next year we will have 100 new posts in the Defence Forces — the Defence Administration will have them. Next year, EUR 2 million will be earmarked for contract soldiers, which will be in addition to this EUR 5.7 million, 100 new posts. The arms trade here interested representatives of Arhinmäki, Andersson and Yanar. To this end, the situation in Yemen is constantly being monitored on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. No arms will be exported to Yemen, contrary to what Mr Arhinmäki claims — an incomprehensible argument. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] Mr Kanerva asked about international cooperation — which, admittedly, has grown recently and continues — and cooperation on traineeships. It's important that we practice together. Then we will also be able to work together at the time of the crisis. All this international cooperation is aimed at developing national capabilities and raising the threshold to attack Finland. To Mr Niiko, Israel will continue to be an important partner in armaments. For example, we last purchased anti-sea missiles. It was the most cost-effective and best available system. Representative Salolainen and, in fact, representative Kopra asked about Finland's role in developing the EU's defence dimension. This is, in fact, such a multigenerational question that it is better not to do this, but let me tell you that I am currently preparing a broader article for the Channel magazine on this EU defence cooperation. I'd be happy to deliver it to Congressman Salolainen. Congressman Mäkipää asked about a legal project. Now I can say that, for example, this liberalisation of Jehovah’s Witnesses, or legislation on liberalisation, will come to Parliament next week. And hopefully these issues of real estate and dual citizenship will also be brought to Parliament during the autumn. Regarding repatriation money: I am in favour of returning it, but it is a matter for a different ministry. Mr Väyrynen has already asked about the possible railway to Russia from Salla through Kantlahti. I am not familiar with it, I am not able to comment on it either, and transport networks are also outside the remit of the Ministry of Defence. Congressman Pirttilahti asked about cyber training. It will be developed and better taken into account in the knowledge of the conscripts. We have very good garrisons, and we are trying to make use of them in cybersurgeons. Mr Raatikainen, I am not familiar with this aspect of education exports, but I agree that Finland is good at that. It could have the potential to further develop. And for dual citizenship: Of course I'm sticking to my position. It is a matter of national security. I wasn't thinking of haggling.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u129	All right, almost three minutes, very good. Thank you to the Minister and for a good debate. Now we have time to take one real speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u130	Mr President! I support Mrs Feldt-Ranta's proposal. Minister Soini has clouded the Finnish line abroad and weakened confidence in it. Experience and numerous studies in many countries show that improving the status of women, education and self-employment, as well as guaranteeing sexual and reproductive health rights are among the most effective ways of developing society as a whole. This is also Finland's own experience. Mr Feldt-Ranta said that abortion is, in principle, undesirable. Representative Biaudet highlighted Finland's own experience that legalisation has reduced abortions. That's right. In 1966, when abortion was illegal, unless there was enough money to bribe doctors, it was estimated that 18,000 illegal abortions were performed a year. Today the number of abortions is about 10,000 a year. In other words, the possibility of having abortion legally and safely combined with sexual and contraceptive education and the availability of contraceptives is one of the ways in which abortions can be reduced. It is also widely understood that where there is a so-called aneurysm, a lot of unemployed young men in relation to the population, this is the most appropriate breeding ground for terrorism. This has also been said by our former President, Ahtisaari. This situation does not arise in countries where women have the right to decide their own number of children, how many children they want and at what stage in their lives. In this way, the promotion of women's sexual and reproductive health rights is also part of the prevention of root causes of conflicts and refugeeism, which has been mentioned a lot in this Chamber and which Minister Soini is happy to talk about. But in his speeches against women's and girls' rights, he has not only denied Finland's own experience but has also obscured Finland's foreign policy and trust in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u131	Then we will be exchanging ministerial issues, that is, Mr Mykkänen, please, an overview of the Ministry of the Interior's administration. Presentation, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u132	Mr President! Firstly, as far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, I shall try briefly to clarify the message on the issue of dual citizenship, because I think it is important that we have a clear position on matters of national security, and because yesterday evening's television news allowed us to give a rather distorted picture of this situation. What is quite clear is that the security backgrounds to be assigned to the posts of the Border Guard and the military must in all circumstances be able to be checked and guaranteed. We have a broad consensus on this between the Minister of Defence and the whole government, not a dispute. Secondly, at least in the government, everyone's objective is to check and ensure maximum security and at the same time to minimise the sense of isolation. On this basis, when the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence have prepared the necessary meeting of understandable concerns, especially regarding the foreign ties of dual citizens, we came to the conclusion in the preparation of the Border Guard that the enhanced use of the security clearance provides sufficient grounds for addressing those foreign interests which cause dangerous situations for Finland or, in particular, for the future holder of the post. The Ministry of Defence stated that it was moving through the ban on dual citizens and the dispensation procedure, and this was said together as early as June that the need for this is different and that the preparation is on a different path. Again, there is no apparent dispute between the Minister of Defence and the signatory. Thirdly, these two models, if the Parliament so decides, operate side by side. On the basis of a proposal prepared by the Ministry of Defence, the ban on dual citizenship but the exemption procedure would become a practice in accessing higher education in military sciences, and would, of course, also affect the appointment of posts as a Border Guard officer, which would be qualified by means of higher education in military sciences. This is also becoming a clarifying blog post on the Ministry of the Interior website in no time. For the budget: EUR 1.4 billion, more than half of it to the police, less than a fifth to the Border Guard, 13% to immigration, 5% to rescue — this is a cake. Of the priorities: For the police, this government in relation to next year's budget, in relation to the spending limits, increases EUR 36 million, about EUR 20 million more in use next year compared to this year's budget level. From this point of view, EUR 18 million for basic functions on the side of the police administration, i.e. the police, and EUR 2.5 million for the protection police, plus EUR 10 million for measures under the Intelligence Act. In addition to those mentioned in the budget debate, we wanted in particular to allocate a few dozen additional posts to the police work in the suburbs and a little more than tens of posts to the police work on difficult response times in the decentralised areas. In other words, two main priorities in these precision additions, on the one hand preventive work, especially in the direction that we are able to learn from Sweden's development on time. We must not have suburbs where the concept of justice or externality with regard to the institutions of society goes too far, and fortunately we have good models for the fact that neighbourhood police work, together with other authorities, social workers, schools, organisations, is capable of dealing with this, and it is now going to have dozens of feet, hands, mouths and eyes. On the other hand, the rule of law applies to the whole kingdom in Finland, and although I can say that there are not many people in Utsjoki or Enontekio and there are no alarms there as much as in Rovaniemi or Oulu, it must be assumed that the rule of law must be reasonably enforceable within the borders of the whole kingdom. For this reason, we will invest a dozen new posts in Lapland, dozens of new posts in other sparsely populated areas, and this criterion will be created as to how this will happen. With regard to the border guard, there is a more than EUR 4 million larger framework than in the current year, and the lion part is eating Helsinki Airport, which is, in a way, a positive challenge, i.e. the number of passengers repeatedly exceeds the projected growth, which of course brings money to Finland, but it also requires passport inspectors to the airport, and it then eats resources from elsewhere. In immigration, we will reduce EUR 24 million to this year's level of reception costs and payments. The limitation of the re-search is a key legislative proposal this winter, which will be able to speed up this reduction in immigration costs in the future. There's a slight increase in the rescue service, especially at the Rescue Academy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u133	Let's open the debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in the debate to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u134	Mr President! The Administrative Committee has traditionally assessed internal security in this house, especially internal security well, could it be said, above the government-opposition limits? Now, last year, when we assessed this internal security situation on the basis of a report, the Administrative Committee was very concerned about the situation. We felt that the various financial cuts that have taken place during several parliamentary periods are putting Finland's internal security at risk in a certain way, and we felt that very small financial efforts could help us, and now we must thank the police and Raja for providing additional resources. The Minister began with this dual citizenship. I would like to conclude by saying that, now that we are going to a different interpretation of dual citizenship in these posts in relation to defence and Raja,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u135	Mr President! Fortunately, the sharp decline in the number of police officers has been slightly dampened during this term of government, but much remains to be done, even at the Nordic level. The Administrative Committee, as Mr Korhonen has already pointed out, has long ago expressed its concern about this matter, and there has been talk of raising the number of police officers to 7800, and it would cost only about EUR 60 million to hire a thousand police officers. Well, of course, the police are not out of work, but money should be allocated primarily to starting training places. Apart from the fact that there are few policemen, they seem to be focusing more and more on things that often do not serve taxpayers. To put the carrikas: If a neo-Finnish comes into the yard of an old Finn and steals laundry from a string, the police do not have the resources to investigate this kind of thing. Instead, if this same old Finn in anger goes online and puts a picture in evidence, the police will very quickly be missing. This, you know,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u136	Madam President! Minister, I have often spoken about transport issues in this area of police action, and I am probably a little tired of automatic traffic control, which I am in principle in favour of, but I am not in favour of this government's line that automatic traffic control should be increased at the same time as the number of traffic controls carried out by the police, by professionals, is reduced. Although the statistics tell the police that traffic control is also being carried out by the police, I know that these working schedules are being labelled as traffic control, even though it is more a matter of moving from B to C. But I would ask the Minister when the Helsingin Sanomat reported in mid-August that foreign transport companies in Finland do not comply with Finnish law — do a job in Finland and go abroad, and all the rest-time violations and others are not taken care of by the authorities — that there is no reason for us now to add those police officers on the road to see the condition of the vehicles.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u137	Madam President! It is, of course, wonderful that the government has provided additional funding for internal security, 36 million more money for the police and for the Border Guard, because too large cuts were made last season. For example, police training is now fully operational, 400 new police officers are completed each year. This line needs to be held. While the rescue services and Customs under the control of the VM are still adequately resourced, internal security will hopefully be improved by these additions. It is great that the Ankuri activities of the suburban police are invested in these soft means, that is important, and perhaps, it is also said, in the hard ways of intelligence legislation. But my concern is with this kind of daily criminal investigation. When an ordinary person is subjected to a crime, how does he get his case out so that it would be investigated, now that it is a major concern? Is the pre-treatment intended to be more efficient, whether the series should be more effective? If this fails, then the great nation will lose confidence in the police and also in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u138	Madam President! There are good things in this budget: at least there will now be a few more police officers in those regions. But I myself missed the fact that those increases were a little more substantial, because the need is great and the distances are long. I do not so much miss these pillar police, or these traffic control poles that are on fire, at least I have had a couple of fires this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u139	Mr President! I too would like to thank you for this speech on dual citizenship, because dual citizenship is an issue of confidence and not of a reduction. And you can't be two-level citizens. Then it doesn't matter. Then you might as well just leave the whole thing alone. But I actually wanted to talk about trafficking in human beings and the police investigation relating to trafficking in human beings. For more than ten years, the police have been working very hard to improve their activities in a truly commendable way and to improve the investigation and so on. However, if you look at this last report by the human trafficking reporter to Parliament, you will see that the number of qualifications started in 10 to 15 years has increased considerably, which is likely to mean that the crime is identified as it were. But then they will not be prosecuted, not to mention convictions. But somewhere, that criminal investigation won't work. It is certainly not easy, I am not saying it, but for many years it has been suggested that specialization should take place in the police and that resources should be allocated to it. However, this is a very serious area of crime. Is there any change in this view?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u140	Madam President! I am very pleased that next year's budget now reflects the long-term objective of our centremen that in those less populated areas the police should also be seen not to fall into these situations of using their own hands, and for that, thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs. However, I would like to know a little more about how these few posts are now to be divided. What will those criteria be that you are now considering? We, at least those downtown, are very concerned about these police cold stations. We made a political decision in the government, including the parliamentary groups, not to shut down certain police stations, such as the Enontekio police station, and now it is a so-called cold station. There's a police logo in the building, but there are no officers. What do you think of this? Minister of the Interior, in what time will we be able to get up from this number of police officers? It's great that it's 7200 now, but we should get closer to 8,000. What is the future for getting to the Nordic level in the number of policemen?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u141	Mr President! Uusimaa has a population of over 1.6 million. It has now been suggested that the education leading to the rescue degree will also be transferred to Kuopio from here in Helsinki. There is an intolerable situation if the metropolitan area does not have its own or even a side unit. It will bring challenges to salvation and emergency care. The rescue school also has a close network of cooperation in the metropolitan area and could crumble in connection with the transfer. I would like to ask the Minister: is it not possible to leave its own side unit in Uusimaa, however, so that the administration is concentrated in Kuopio? Then I would also like to thank you for this effort in preventive work, the multi-professional work of the Ankkuri type, in which police, social work and health care work cooperate. It is the very important preventive work that will enable young people to be picked up before they go there to commit crimes against you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u142	Mr President! We really must thank the government for the additional money allocated to the police next year, but the fact is that this period has also seen a reduction of 160 people. This will continue the development which unfortunately has taken place over several parliamentary periods, and now the question is, as everyone here in Parliament's large Chamber states, that we should, however, be closer to the Nordic level. This calls for more long-term planning, but also for more long-term cooperation between the various groups in Parliament, that this should then be achieved. But, Minister, then I would have asked you something. As we know, our system of residence permits and its credibility require that negative decisions can also be taken and these negative decisions can be implemented. Now we know that these are challenges both in Finland and in other countries. I would like to ask: what is the government doing now that those negative decisions can actually be taken, so that we do not have a group of undocumented people who, for example, are not born here?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u143	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for increasing the budget for the police. It is welcome, as is the budget for the protection police. I would like to raise a point of view. Last week the Section for Administration and Security visited Italy, and in Rome we took a look at the activities of the Border Guard and the reception centre. After all, Italy has faced a great deal of challenges with the migration of the Mediterranean, and they have managed well to do so because the number of people coming now has collapsed. There is political change and good cooperation with those countries of origin. But one interesting point of view was that if an asylum seeker escapes from Italy, in a way, leaves the reception centre without authorisation or comes to the country by an organization, he will not be able to travel to France or Europe, for example. Where they go to the border and say ‘asylum’, their application will be dealt with on the same day and the next day they will be returned to Italy. This is a new line, what I've heard is that we're going to do, and I would have asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u144	Mr President! Of course, we have discussed issues such as rescue services several times, and one big thing is the Government Programme's record on education reform. I would like to see that it would already be a larger educational package for the whole safety sector, better account would be taken of the cooperation of the authorities and would be made of this university level of education. How is this development in education and training reform progressing? The second issue is this legal protection for paramedics, which is now in an unequal position. Is there a cure for this? Then this part of the transport, what the representative Kari brought up a lot of people who need a mobile cop. We need more resources. The grey economy is in danger of rampant growth. And among other things, this taxi reform has awakened
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u145	Madam President! I would like to thank the police for having received more money, but I would like to call for it and ask whether these appropriations and the overall number of police officers are still far too low. The texts here say quite frankly that police performance does not fully meet the existing threats, security risks and changing operating environment requirements. The response of the police and the ability to respond to sudden serious situations are directly proportional to the number of police officers in the field. If we look at the situation in the Nordic countries, we should have far more police officers, let us talk more about a few thousand policemen. I would like to ask: on the one hand, when online crime has increased and the police are also working there but do not need the same capacity as those who work in the field, for example, whether we have thought about how this could possibly be taken into account in police training and perhaps make it more attractive for some young people to have police training,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u146	Mr President! Indeed, this government has put internal security at the heart of it, and it is well understood that security is the basis of everything and a prerequisite for all business activities and so on. Next year, RVL will receive 4.35 million more than in the current year, of which just over half will be allocated to ensure the smooth border inspection at Helsinki Airport. The airport is also a place where these professional border guards identify people smuggling and victims of trafficking in human beings. As we have seen, the current asylum system is such, which in practice only benefits human smugglers and criminals, and many of these asylum seekers are victims of various forms of exploitation. I would like to ask the Minister: what is the current situation with the EU countries in the debate on the creation of common asylum places outside our borders?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u147	Madam President! The increase in appropriations made in this draft budget is now a good follow-up to the decisions taken in the spending limits debate in the spring. I very much welcome the addition to the police of this EUR 3.3 million, which will enable the additional posts of some 60 police officers, and of course the essential issue here is what the criteria will be, how these will be distributed. There are police services in different parts of Finland, where only 3 to 4 police patrols exist on the quietest days of the week, even in the larger provinces. We must see what they are, then, to get more resources there. Control of heavy traffic is one that should also be given increasing attention, and hopefully this will be achieved next year. When we talk about suburban police and Ankkuri police, we also talk about school police.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u148	Madam President! The internal security programme of this government has been satisfactory, and thank you very much to the Ministry of the Interior for bringing in the 60 additional police posts in the country to improve internal security. The suburbs need police, we know that from Sweden. But if you look at the whole security situation, I'll take a different angle. In other words, internal security has also tightened up in the field of intelligence. Our country is targeted both at business, the authorities and military intelligence with strong intelligence, more forceful than before. And now to the important thing that border guards are part of this security service. I would also like to say that we are generally aware that one border guard was recruited because of dual nationality for foreign service and had access to sensitive information. Why have you considered that you do not see the need to prevent double citizens from entering the posts of border guard? What is the real reason?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u149	Madam President! I, too, believe that police funds must be brought to a sustainable, long-term, predictable level, and we will still have something to do with it in the future. But, Mr President, I would also like to raise the issue of suburban police, because it is very close to us. During the last period, we had a town council representing five different ministers, and everyone in their own areas of activity was thinking about measures to make the suburbs better or to keep them a pleasant, comfortable place for people to live. At that time, many actions were taken, and even then the idea of such suburbs arose, that is, these would be needed. When I was a kid, I remember a neighborhood cop who was really great. Yes, I would like to ask the Minister: These suburban holes are needed and there is also a need for a comprehensive development of the suburbs. We need good schools, services, a comfortable environment, community facilities, participation, all this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u150	Madam President! Yes, the suburbs and investing in the local police deserve a thank-you. But in this budget book, at least for the Ministry of the Interior, there is a bit of a shame, and that is a quota of refugees. Mr Mykkänen, in June you still publicly talked about ten times the refugee quota as your own objective, but the refugee quota is still being kept at the level of 2018 — it is 750 quota refugees — and the government says that it will be prepared to re-examine the size of the refugee quota if the EU makes decisions to transfer asylum to the common centres of the EU rather than to cross the border. This doesn't sound like much of a line to me, Minister Mykkänen. I would also like to ask when the appropriations for asylum seekers have been set at 4,000 new applicants, but there is a great deal of urgency and pressure in Migri: how are you prepared in the budget to ensure the quality of Migri's decisions and the well-being and well-being of the workers?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u151	Madam President! Border security plays an important role in these uncertain times. Over the years, when there have been cuts, the Border Guard has been very effective in adapting its operations to financial resources. Now, of course, it is an excellent thing that the centre-driven government has added resources and money to the Border Guard. In my view, the very important role is to add 156 man-years to next year, as I recall. This makes it possible for me to maintain effective border control, which is at the heart of the matter. And, of course, as a representative of the Northern Karelian Parliament, I hope that some of those man-years can be directed to Niirala. Is it true that not everything comes here anyway? Of course, there is a need for Helsinki Airport, but we also need resources elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u152	Madam President! Safety clearance is a good way of clarifying the background when people are selected for different tasks, but it must be borne in mind that the situation may change after this investigation, and there must also be ways of re-upgrading these. In fact, the dual nationality situation can also change. A person does not have to be a double citizen from birth, but can only choose it at the age of 35 or 50, and then at least this means of security clearance must exist. I am amazed at the naivety of Mr Biaudet over dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u154	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister a question — while I am answering Mr Heinonen’s vigorous speech — whether this issue of dual citizenship is not even broader? You referred to security clearances for dual citizens on security missions. However, we in this Parliament, as a member of the Government, may have a double citizen whose minister does not even have to be elected by the people, as you well know — not by a representative of parliament. Do you therefore also think that a comprehensive safety report should be made to the ministers of the Republic, or at least to those ministers who are not elected by the people? And, Minister, the same question for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u155	Mr President! When the Finns of Finland were still sitting in the government, together with the other parties, we established such an eighty-point asylum policy action programme. I'd like to ask the Minister: What is the situation with this programme at the moment? Is it buried, or are these things now going to be put into practice from that program? After all, Finland currently has a Nordic asylum policy, as regards family reunification practices, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u158	Madam President! The treatment of asylum seekers and the adoption of asylum decisions are still under discussion. In my view, less attention has been paid to the issue of gender equality in this debate: it is easier for men to obtain work permits, for women and children to remain illegal in the country and thus be completely dependent on their husbands. Refusal to work deprives women of the desire to obtain permission to stay in Finland by means of a complaint. At some point Migri also instructed that people with an asylum seeker background should be allowed to work as long as they are in Finland, but apparently this guidance has now changed — such information comes from that field. And one more thing: EUR 2500 a month should be earned in order to be eligible to work in Finland. In small municipalities, even a Finnish citizen does not make 2,600 euros net per month.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u159	Mr President! I also have concerns about the number of police officers. I come from a large province in Ostrobothnia, and then, especially during the weekend, if there are two patrols on the move, it takes half an hour to get to the scene. The second problem then comes from the Council of the Ostrobothnian Police: we would like to see a turning sound for lorries similar to the one that comes when you cancel, because heavy traffic causes a lot of accidents, and children and especially cyclists are left under it. And then the third point is this amount of income for immigrants, and I would like to comment on it further. Minister, are you aware that the majority of Finns earn less than EUR 2000 per month in gross terms? Yet we are demanding a salary of EUR 2500 from other people who come here. For example, the cook boy makes money.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u160	Mr President! Unlike Mr Kari, who is concerned about traffic control, I am genuinely concerned about organised crime, drug crime and the fact that these young people, who are then addicted to drugs, will not get to treatment on time when the results are still there. It takes money, and now the money goes a little to the wrong place. It's a good thing the cops get more resources, but it's not enough. It is up to the leaders to identify the worst problems in society. They are by no means a small speeding, more should be done to control the condition in which people usually drive. But that is the problem — and this message now comes from the police themselves and the awakened citizens — that the police no longer have to deal with crimes of property, it involves the use of bulvans in normal transactions run by organised crime. They don't have to deal with people stealing and stuff anymore, but it looks like they have time to go after wolves, and then they have resources for traffic control.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u161	Now let's give the minister an answer, two minutes. — Minister Mykkänen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u162	Mr President! Twenty-two speeches, I'm sure there's not enough time for everyone to answer. — — — — Firstly, on this issue of dual citizenship, which several of you raised. For the sake of clarity, I repeat that the goal is the same: those who have a dangerous foreign link, which may include dual nationality, are not suitable for military posts at the border or in the Defence Forces. This can be confirmed by a safety statement or by a ban with a derogation. As far as the border is concerned, we have noted that the security statement will move forward and its signal impact on Finnish citizens, who also have second citizenship, will be smaller, and that is why we are preparing for it. But there is absolutely no compromise on that security aspect of this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u166	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u167	Mr President! I wanted to talk to you about these local cops, too. I grew up in Espoo in the '80s, where the local police were very present, and there was not this huge wave of immigration that came to Finland a few years ago. Indeed, the presence of a local police officer can have a very significant impact on people's sense of security, to act as a preventive factor in the communities there too. There are a lot of contacts at the moment, especially from older people, but also from the parents of young people and children, where the local police have disappeared. The local police have a real impact where they move. Not only do they create a kind of glue in that community but they also go around schools and educate, so this work is extremely valuable. Now I would like to ask the Minister: how do you ensure that this important and impressive work by the local police is once again vindicated and visible among the people there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u168	Madam President! A few days ago, I got a news report from Maikkari that, if I remember correctly, almost 40 percent of it happened to me. Murders in Germany have been committed by people with foreign background. However, close to 40% of German residents are not like this, so they have quite an over-representation. Similar statistics on sexual offences are available across Europe. Well, Sweden burned not only forests last summer but also cars that were burned more than ever in these immigrant neighborhoods. All over Western Europe, the threat of Islamist terrorism has increased, and these acts of terrorism committed by immigrants, second generation immigrants, have increasingly taken place in this decade. And every year, the costs of immigration in Finland also increase, if not direct, so indirect costs. Instead, there is no problem of this kind in countries which are highly disapproved, as in Poland and Hungary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u169	Mr President! I will continue with that preventive work — a number of Members have already mentioned it. The police are very valuable in student care work and also as a legal educator in schools. This school police system was an excellent and worthwhile system, but unfortunately resources have been transferred from it. I wish it would come back. But then I will return to these cold stations. I did not see a reply from the Minister just now as to whether these so-called cold stations will now be occupied again, with more resources. And the other is related to these long distances: I have always wondered when rescue helicopters have brought a solution to these long distances, whether it has ever been considered that a police helicopter would be in use in Finnish Lapland, so that these distances would be reduced or at least speeded up through helicopter operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u170	Madam President! We must thank the Minister for his energetic performance and for making significant improvements to the budget, to development and to legislative projects, including more police posts. It was of particular interest to hear the Minister's opening statement on the limitation of re-applications for asylum. We currently have thousands, probably over 4,000, of re-applications, and some are said to be applying for asylum for the seventh time. It is clear that, if this kind of rudimentary system is spinning, it is wrong to take advantage of our asylum system and in the wrong way these applicants take advantage of our goodwill. It would be good to hear the details of how this restriction is going to proceed. As far as this issue of dual citizenship is concerned, this is not an ideological issue, Mr Biaudet, but a very pragmatic issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u174	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister for his position on the grey economy and the programme. There is really no mention of them in this budget, so perhaps we should talk about the next government's measures. As you will recall, they have not been very high in the priorities of this government. The appropriations were even reduced at first, but then, under heavy pressure, they were returned. And then a grey economy observatory was set up a little bit along the way, with the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but at a time when there is a financial investigation and a police matter, much has already been lost. In fact, the majority of the 21 measures proposed by the SDP, for example, to combat the shadow economy, are well ahead of this stage. That is why I would ask the Minister how you see that this activity should be organised more effectively, what resources should be provided and whether it belongs to the veto of someone other than the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u175	Madam President! It would be very important, as many colleagues have said here in relation to police resources, to increase resources for the now challenging and sparsely populated regions. I too am calling for this: for example, in my opinion, at the moment, the constitutional guarantee of security will not come about when there is no police patrol. There are no police officers in an area of 8,000 square miles. We have several municipalities in Lapland where there is no police on weekends.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u179	Madam President! I too would like to join in thanking you for the increase in the number of police officers. There will be dozens of new posts in the field, of which the posts in sparsely populated areas in particular are desperately needed. However, we know this security situation in Finland, it has changed. The additional posts in the draft budget are not enough, and we are still a long way from the Nordic level. In the summer, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health sent out a draft of the government's proposal for a new Act on Clients and Patients. The draft introduces to paramedics the use of force rights that have previously belonged only to the police. However, paramedics would still be missing out on the kind of law enforcement that the police, for example, have. So I ask the Minister: is this a joint project between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to facilitate police field work by making paramedics a kind of quarter police?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u180	Mr President! This legal protection for paramedics was also in my first question, and I understand that in two minutes 22 questions will not be answered, but I hope that the rescue services will receive answers. The minima have rarely become normal in practice. According to the guidance of the rescue services, a very large number of municipalities operate at the minimum strength defined in, for example, the smoke diving guidelines — chemical diving instructions would, of course, be better and so forth. Should this change, however, set a minimum for the rescue operation to increase this total amount? And I repeat my question about the reform of education, the one at the heart of which is:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u181	Madam President! I stayed to think about what has not yet been discussed, namely the situation at the emergency centre. In the summer, I was able to listen to 911 calls in connection with a specific criminal matter and identify the caller. When I heard those phone calls about what had happened, I kept thinking about the number of people they work with and the plight of those workers there. I have such a memory that they had a need for 360 employees, and the number of employees there at the emergency center is well below it at the moment. There's no mention of that. I wondered how they were able to work understaffed when they also had to give initial information, first advice and first aid and counseling people in distress in the event of a real emergency. It is really hard and hard work to be the first one to give that first help on the spot. How and at what point will this issue be addressed through the Ministry?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u182	Mr President! I, too, will join the praisers for this additional police allowance. Quite substantially police visibility affects the public's sense of security, and the more policemen appear, the more important this kind of social peace remains. I, too, stayed to hear that answer in relation to these cold stations, how really this extra money and the increase in police numbers can also be seen in the sparsely populated areas, and how those cold police houses actually get that occupation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u183	Mr President! The work of the authorities and the exchange of information is essential in order to prevent exclusion or crime itself, for example. Cooperation between different administrative sectors is also important. Sometimes, however, we, too, get to the attention of our parliamentarians, that social services or health authorities already have the necessary information that should be available to the police, but the information does not pass. Why do you think this is? Is it just not the courage to tell, or is there another lack of confidence? I think it is extremely important that information should flow between the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u184	Mr President! Now that we are discussing the number of police officers, it is also good to consider what the number is needed for. There are two things that are most important. The first is prevention, i.e. that crime is not committed and that the public sense of security is high. Well, then there is this other one, which has to do with the fact that in any case, when crimes are committed, how are they solved? And this is where the changes have taken place. If we look at these percentages of detection, we are coming to the point where about half of the crimes are not solved. Half of the crimes are not solved — by taking figures from criminal offences and taking traffic offences out of them — and this is quite halting. Even these traditionally high-clearance crimes, which have been linked to life and health, and which have been 100 % resolved, are now only 90 % settled in the future. This tells us why we need to be able to raise the number of police officers close to the Nordic level, and here, hopefully, we can now find such common will inside this house,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u185	Madam President! I would have asked the Minister about this Iraqi passport delegation. I still have many questions about it, such as the whole group of Finns, and especially amazement at the fact that we have been hindering the return of a negative asylum decision in the past because people have not had a passport. I would now have asked: could this same delegation also bring passports to these people? Then there have also been public statements that the Finnish authorities are not taking part in this, but surely we now have a say in who will be here to do what? My second question concerns the fact that we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had an opinion and an annual report from the legal controllers, and the quality of pre-trial investigations has become a lot of complaints that there may not be proper decisions to initiate an investigation. Has this reached the Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u186	Mr President! I think that Mr Räsänen gave a good speech on what should be addressed: where will the police resources be allocated? And, as I said earlier in my speech, people and the police themselves are already partly frustrated that property crimes are not even being investigated when there is no resources, but there is still time for the police elsewhere. And I would like to stress this quite directly in Parliament's plenary session to say that the minister should pay attention to this, that what is happening there within the police. You can't just give it to the police government because it seems to have its own values. But I ask the Minister: when it says here about the productivity of traffic control, that it is going to rise by 25% according to this book, and when it is already known that a very large proportion of citizens experience small speedings in cash, is there ever more to go to such road construction sites where the traffic sign indicates that there is road work going on, but there is no one there and people are naturally driving a little faster, then there will be more performances again?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u187	Mr President! As has been said, this multidimensional security environment of ours is changing in many ways, and it has to be said that it is becoming increasingly challenging. In this speech, the Minister referred to the forthcoming elections. You have done this job well and, knowing that the work on internal security is very long-term, I would venture to ask at this stage: given the forthcoming elections and the forthcoming government work, what would your greetings be for the coming regime to do this internal security work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u188	Madam President! In parliamentary agreement, the Parliamentary Administrative Committee has expressed its concern about the police budget and the amount and effectiveness of the police, as has the representative. Eestilä was great at this because of the impact, the effectiveness of police work, the effectiveness of performance. The point of view has been raised that, in some way, we should be able to secure a bridge over the parliamentary term, so that the police budget would not be the common concern in every parliament for all of us, but that we could work together to resolve some kind of vision of the future for the police. Unfortunately, I have to be in a bit of a negative mood when I say that all the praises to this government about the police budget are missing the right point. It has already become clear here that we have 159 fewer police officers than when this government started. There are reasons for that. The Alcohol Act took the police 130 htv from us to the problems brought about by the Alcohol Act, and therefore the practical level of effectiveness is less than 300.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u189	Mr President! The government’s indecision in the autumn of 2015 in the management of the migration crisis caused a further bill of billions. I am sure that no one knows the true sum of this bill, but even if it is conservatively estimated, it has been hundreds of millions of euros each year,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u197	Madam President! I am not going to take a stand on whether to carry out security checks on politicians and people elected by the people, but it is true that loyalty is, of course, much more than just the issue of citizenship. But as Mr Kopra well pointed out with regard to Russia, it is something that needs serious consideration, and we need to consider, for example, the principle of reciprocity, whether it could be the solution here. We have a long eastern border for the EU, but above all for Finland. Now that the EU is working on 10,000 border patrols, which at least appeared to be the Mediterranean in Mr Juncker's speeches, I would ask you, Minister of the Interior: will Finland do everything in its power to ensure that part of these troops and their equipment is also reserved for border control?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u198	Mr President! Now to a little earlier than what we were talking about here, namely drugs. I am very surprised that the fight against crime has no objective whatsoever for next year's investigation or detection of drug offences. In any case, the number of drug offences is increasing, the number of addicts has increased, and they have become rejuvenated, even 11-year-olds are using intravenous substances. In addition to that, there are conversion drugs, which unfortunately we do not know properly. As far as drugs are concerned, we don't know everything that's going on, we're coming in after. Now we are in a situation where we should have been five years ago. And this is a problem when these conversion drugs, as a rule, come from abroad and can be ordered online. Minister, I would like money to be found to at least put an end to this online ordering. It is quite simple — so simple that even I could do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u199	Madam President! A few words about rescue. Unfortunately, when the decision was made to transfer rescue training from this capital region to Kuopio, I would like to ensure that the level of emergency care training is maintained at the same level as it is here, and that special conditions are maintained. Mr Jalonen has already asked about this rescue training reform. Is this university of applied sciences reform at what level, and is it intended to combine modules with other safety authorities? The second point is the management of the rescue sector. Now, when or if the regional reform comes, there will be a regional rescue service, and now we are already seeking cooperation on the rescue side without this reform, without joint situation centres and so on. It has been noted that consistency is an asset in the rescue sector, including operating models, equipment and operations. What will continue to be the role of the Ministry in this direction, in order to achieve uniform operating models, consistent
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u200	There are two more debatable speeches here, and then an answer to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u201	Madam President! I too would have liked to ask the Minister what efforts have been made to improve the performance of the police in this very difficult environment with too little resources? Mr Semi raised this question earlier. Not only on the end of the phone, but also on the ground, situations are very challenging today, but there is also online crime and working on it. Here I am thinking of sexual crime and, for example, the crime against children, the sexual crime that police are dealing with on the Internet. For example, the footage is very ghastly, and there is not a police force so hard that it does not go under the skin, and when they do this type of work too, in what way has it been thought to be more invested in coping with the police? I know that, even now, there are a lot of those in police strength who are planning to change the industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u202	Mr President! Mr Kari reminded us of the right thing: when the number of policemen is too low anyway, this problem has been added at the same time by the government's reform of alcohol,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u205	We now give Mr Mykkänen a reply. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u206	Mr President! Thank you for your generous and relevant, relevant comments in every respect. This is where Mr Korhonen asked what his regards are for the next period. Of course, it is a bigger task, but I would be the first to raise, if I were genuinely speaking, where many of you also lacked, that we must be able to move on to this asylum-based immigration system, in which we as such maximise the help for those who are genuinely fleeing persecution, and that we should be able to minimise the uncontrollable, misappropriation-smuggling, which, unfortunately, is what is happening across the border at the moment in many of its mild phenomena. In this context, Mr Ruoho here asked how the EU was working. Well, at the moment when we are here, in Salzburg, Prime Minister Sipilä and the other Heads of State are discussing the same issue. Fortunately, at the end of June, a surprisingly clear line was adopted in which, for the first time, the European Council stated that we should move towards a search for countries outside Europe and, for those who are already in Europe or end up in European controlled centres, instead of people themselves seeking different countries and creating different differences between countries and so on. But it's easier said than done. It is now absolutely essential that, during this winter, Europe is able to do it together, otherwise it will fall into a nation state-specific state, which, in a country such as Finland, especially in the east, is definitely a worse solution if we are alone in front of it. But it may be that, at the time of the government negotiations, we also have to look at this cross-border asylum policy with a whole new eye and move on more to the fact that we do not really cross the border as we do at the present time, and we will take a much larger amount of it through the refugee quota.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u213	Consequently, the Ministry of the Interior’s administration has been dealt with. The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The sitting will be adjourned and resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u214	Let us move back to the second point and there we will have the presentation of the next Minister. Minister Saarikko, please, five minutes at the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u215	Madam President! I'm sorry about all this noise about the change of situation. Only now did I notice your request. — — — — Mr President, it is a pleasure to be able to present to Parliament the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the second section of which is, of course, presented by Mr Mattila. If I now focus solely on the section which relates to the responsibility of the Minister for Basic Services, I will make a few withdrawals. Is it all right, Mr President, to ask how many minutes you have set aside for this? [President : Five. ] First of all, it is good to highlight the most up-to-date, today's Government proposal relating to next year's budget for the preparatory funds, namely the change in the health system for university students, which means that many of us have long-standing polytechnic students having access to the same student health care services. For next year's budget, EUR 3 million has been earmarked for this expansion of operations, while a small share of Kela's operating expenses has been allocated. It is intended that, at the same time as the social and regional reform, this so-called new CSFS legislation will also enter into force. As far as the reform of social services is concerned, which is currently being dealt with in depth and merit, I am pleased that the government decided in its budget debate that the preparatory funds for practical social work in 18 regions have been set aside in accordance with the original plans, despite the fact that, due to the delay in the timetable, it will only be possible to start the social work under the responsibility of the provinces from 21 onwards, and the proportion of freedom of choice will come into effect as a result of this. Mr President! The last question-hour debate also referred to another long-standing decision on the common will of the Parliament, which relates to the position of front veterans. The Veterans will receive a total of EUR 218.7 million in next year's budget, and as part of this solution, the new legislation will come into force towards the end of next year in relation to the equal status of the veterans with the war-qualified. I believe that this is an important improvement in the services of veterans. This will also reduce the current situation of home-dependent inequality. Front veterans are therefore entitled to services in the same way as invalids, and municipalities are entitled to bill the costs from the State Treasury in the same way as in the case of war veterans. This is a budget law in the autumn programme of the Parliament. Mr President! Let me raise a few more important themes. The second relates to the agricultural situation discussed here in the section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. I am pleased that the so-called 'institution' has been launched during this parliamentary term. The ‘carry on the farmer’ project, to which the budget debate and next year’s budget put forward a proposal for further funding. This refers, above all, to practical support for farmers in difficult situations, for example, by directing them to therapy and helping them with social security issues or indebtedness concerns. It is important that we should also be able to respond to the drought and the crisis in the profitability of agriculture by means of social policy, not only through the traditional relief system, which will also, of course, be funded next year. Mr President! From the section of the portfolio of the Minister for Gender Equality, I would like to highlight a whole that relates to the great focus of this parliamentary term on gender equality work: combating violence and helping people in situations where they encounter violence in their own home. We want zero tolerance for this in Finland, and as long as this objective is unattainable, it is valuable that funding for sheltered homes is strengthened by increasing the budget by another EUR 2 million up next year, so that it will now reach almost EUR 20 million and the accessibility of services will be improved. Furthermore, Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of the vaccination programme. Vaccines speak to all of us a great deal also because of the increase in vaccine criticality and the unfortunate decrease in vaccine coverage. I do not think that this is acceptable. With regard to influenza vaccines, we will fund influenza vaccinations in children until the age of six.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u216	I would like to ask if Mr Mattila would like to make a presentation here. Is there any way to stop Mattila from being heard as well? At least from my own experience, I know that in this sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health it always gets a little confused that which belongs to whom. So, ladies and gentlemen, if that's all right with you, let's do this. — Minister Mattila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u217	Thank you, Mr President, for a quick response. The administrative sector accounts for EUR 15 billion in the state budget proposal for 2018, which is just over a quarter of the state budget. The draft budget is EUR 6 million lower than the actual budget for 2018, and the fall in expenditure is mainly due to an increase in employment. The draft budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is lacking in inequality. This can be seen, among other things, as an increase in minimum daily allowances and guaranteed pensions, and as an improvement in the status of family members of adoptive and plural families, front veterans and entrepreneurs. In order to reduce inequalities and place emphasis on primary benefits, minimum sickness and parental allowance, rehabilitation allowance and special care allowance will be increased to the level corresponding to labour market support. The daily allowance is estimated to rise by EUR 80 per month. The total cost to the State is approximately 18.9 million. The guarantee pension is estimated to be increased by EUR 9 per month. In addition, the pension allowance, the rehabilitation allowance for young people and the minimum daily allowance for vocational rehabilitation will be increased, and the limit for leaving the pension to rest will increase accordingly to the level of the guarantee pension. These cost impacts amount to approximately EUR 10 million. The 55 days of sickness allowance will be abolished and sickness allowance paid to all at least at a minimum, which will cost EUR 4.4 million. For years, there has been a rule in sickness allowance that a person without income or who is very low income may not have received sickness benefit until after 55 days of owning up. However, sickness allowance is a constitutional guarantee of basic income, which should be a priority during illness. The fact that the person has not received any sickness allowance during the first 55 days of his disability also increases the need for income support. This provision has been inconsistent and illogical, since other daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act are always paid at least at a minimum without this 55-day allowance. The reasons for this deviation have therefore been difficult to find. The SATA committee has already drawn attention to this anomaly, and it is now in history. This is also a step in the right direction from the point of view of the system. It would be important for citizens to have access to the right benefits and services as early as possible. In order to support the study and employment of young people in difficult situations, the criteria for vocational rehabilitation of young people will be relaxed. In the future, the rehabilitation allowance for young people will be paid in the form of participation income during the entire period of the rehabilitation decision. This allows a young person to focus on rehabilitation and does not remain in the teeth of bureaucracy. The annual liability limit for medical benefits will be reduced by tens of euros. The central government share of this is EUR 5 million. Mr President! It is proposed that Lex Lindström should be extended to new age groups, so that a person aged 60 or over and who has been unemployed for 5 years could apply for the pension allowance if he or she so wished. The terms of this Lex Lindström 2 are the same as those of the first. In addition, the payment of the health insurance allowance to private care provided on public premises and the temporary reduction of the interest on late payments for farmers' pension contributions will continue. With regard to the competitiveness agreement, the employer's social security contribution will be reduced. The reform of housing-based social security legislation proposes a number of clarifications providing for the determination of social security for Finnish and foreign citizens moving to and from the country. These changes would reduce central government expenditure by half a million euros. The provisions of the Sickness Insurance Act on the determination of parental allowances are specified in such a way that in the future it is not considered to be gainful employment to carry out a municipal trust. As a result of the change, the parental allowance could be paid in full for days when the parent is in positions of trust. In addition, the right of family members of entrepreneurs to unemployment benefit will be facilitated by changing the status of a so-called non-owner family member from an entrepreneur to an employee. The reception of short-term work will be facilitated. The reconciliation of unemployment benefit will move from the current reconciliation according to the earned income date to the mediation according to the settlement date of the income. And, as my colleague said, there is a total of EUR 218.7 million in support of veterans. In the future, the same services will be allocated to the front veterans as to the war ovals. In addition, a new additional allowance will be provided for the injured and the next of kin of the deceased in the performance of compulsory military service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u218	All right, ladies and gentlemen, now we have a chance to debate. I would ask those MPs who wish to ask questions or comments to these ministers to stand up and press the V button. Start with the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. — Mr Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u219	Mr President! Thank you for the opportunity to comment on next year's budget. I believe that the situation is still serious with regard to the balancing of the economy, but it must be said in this Chamber, and quite loudly, that if economic growth is clearly improving, then some kind of hand-out should have been done to the people who have given very little. The weakenings and savings associated with basic security during this reign certainly undermine people's faith in whether we see here in Parliament how tight people really are. In that regard, Mr Mattila, I believe that you owe us here in Parliament an explanation as to why the fruit of economic growth, this time again in the context of the budget, seems to be going to many other places in this particular yellow book. For the people who gave little or no at the beginning of this reign, Prime Minister Sipilä promised that even the little grains would be returned while the economy was drawing. Why was this not done?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u220	Mr President! There are good presentations here — as ministers Saarikko and Mattila have said — as is the increase in minimum daily allowance and guaranteed pensions, the addition of secondary material and a lump sum for conscripts if they are injured or if they die. Minister Saarikko also has this 3 million for mothers who use drugs, it is very important, and also a few million for shelters. I am very anxious to read about these child welfare measures. Last year there were 17,000 children placed outside the home, and now the press has read about what our children and young people will encounter in those school homes or individual homes. Could you, Minister Saarikko, say how this can be addressed? That if you had to get care, so many children live there like they do in prison. This is shocking to read and recognize.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u221	Mr President! Minister for Saarikko: It is quite true that you have invested in informal care in the form of key projects and have also developed family care to support informal care. I have had the opportunity to follow it up, and supporting family care in informal care has been a huge success. But now I have to say that the problem has now arisen with the establishment of common criteria for family care in social welfare areas, and this has led to a completely new problem, namely that these criteria have become stricter, which means that we will no longer continue to conclude family care agreements, but will be made redundant, resulting in a large number of family carers falling outside this support system. This is a troublesome thing. For this reason, I have called, for example, for family carers to be given a stronger legal status so that they do not get into this situation, which is about to happen. In that sense, I would like to give you feedback on this, which was also mentioned in Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u222	Madam President! It was a pleasure to hear during Question Time that, Minister Saarikko, you attach great importance to getting more hands and more money for care for the elderly. However, in view of the future social reform, experts believe and estimate that up to EUR 1 billion will have to be cut from the care of the elderly and its cost development. That is why it would be important to get additional funding there quickly in order to make cuts. So how do you take into account this cost development? We have regions where as much as one third of the population will be over 65 years old in seven years' time. Mr President! With this speech and this Minutes, I would like to express my regret that I have previously used the wrong number in my speech, which was caused by a mistake in the YLE news both in radio broadcasting and online writing. It's since my request. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u223	Mr President! The economy is growing, and this House has also enjoyed it in many speeches this week, but I do not think that the fruits of growth have been distributed fairly, and many people are rightly disappointed and sad about the decisions of the government. You would now have had every opportunity to cancel the index freezes that you have made, and that would have benefited at least a little from the daily lives of people with the lowest incomes, but unfortunately your will was not enough. According to the decisions of the Board of Directors' spending limits, EUR 5 million will now be allocated in 2019 to reduce the threshold for the liability of medicines, and this will probably affect the liability of the reimbursement of medicines with a few euros, if I have understood correctly. However, during the last parliamentary term, the government has already reduced the reimbursement system by EUR 150 million, and the 5 million spent on reducing the annual liability for medicines are now 3% compensation for the cuts made. Do you think this is a fair compensation for those who take a lot of drugs?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u224	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that the war veterans have finally reached the same service as the war veterans. It is a long-awaited reform. Many other nice news there came, including smaller parental allowances and other such benefits have come in small withdrawals. But I'd like to ask you: What else, for example, is it like investing in older people? What about talking about high-quality hospice care and investing in it, that there is a high-quality hospice for all those who need it all over Finland? On the other hand, what about: What do you think the stakes are in raising the birth rate? We need more babies, future workers and taxpayers in the country. How would you feel about baby bonus money, 1000 euros for a baby born? With this proposal I have raised, can we get younger parents?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u225	Let's stay a minute and get as many of these as we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u226	Madam President! The government's budget is good and aims at the end of the debt, which will ensure that social security and education are strengthened in the future. At the same time, some improvements have been made to the benefits of the most vulnerable and some other reforms have been made. Of course, this section is the most concerned by the reform of social security, which is now necessary in order to achieve the necessary overall reform of social security in the next period, in a fairer and stronger way for those in need. For that reason too, this social welfare reform should be removed from the table, so that health policies other than the development of services can be put into practice again. This is particularly important for the promotion of the health of the whole population and also of the elderly. Finally, I would like to emphasise the importance of research and expertise, particularly in terms of the funding of THL and clinical research and the more effective use of health data. As a final comment, special thanks for the payment of debt of honour to veterans and the reform of the FSHS,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u227	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your hard work, especially with regard to setting up a pharmaceutical development centre. It is important that Finnish expertise and the related strong R & D work receive valuable input also as special government measures. New international export products have been created in this area, such as the hormone spiral, which collects praise from around the world, and I believe that we can also find new similar success stories in the region. It is also important to invest in the National Genome Centre, and it is also important to coordinate biobanking. However, I would also like to point out that the three national centres mentioned above have received strong attention, but the National Neuro Centre has been neglected and also the emphasis placed on the budget book. As memory disorders and other neurological diseases progress, as the population grows through age changes, it would also be important to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u228	Mr President, värderade talman! The government's focus in social and health care is on prevention and the well-being of children and families, and so on. The clinics do the best preventive work in Finland in the field of social welfare and health care, and the clinics are also responsible for ensuring that children receive their vaccinations under the national vaccination programme. However, it has recently become apparent that vaccination coverage in some areas of Finland has fallen below the level of herd protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u229	Madam President! Tove Jansson once wrote the book The Invisible Child. The situation in child welfare is worrying in Finland. Would Tove Jansson write the book The Invisible Old Man today? In what way, Minister and Ministers, do you provide resources for home care there? It seems that aging is a sin today and the elderly are being blamed: when you get older, Finland too will have to pay a record price for it. The EMT Teuvo Määtta is retiring, and he says hello. He raised the theme of hospice treatment in Helsingin Sanomat and was concerned that care homes often do not recognise the hospice situation. How do you support the fact that nursing homes will also be able to provide good hospice care in the future? Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the garrison — indeed, the fact that they are covered — will come into force from the beginning of next year, and thank you for that. I made a bill, and thank you, all the MPs who signed it. I'm glad the law is moving forward, but could it be applied retrospectively? I also made it an initiative for action. I wish we could take into account those conscripts who have been injured, injured, or if there has been a death, for example, because the law is
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u230	Madam President! I would like to ask Minister Mattila: The problem is that the decisions of insurance doctors are appealed to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court does not receive statements from medical experts. This is why complaints about false insurance decisions hang. Hospital districts refuse to give medical advice to the Supreme Court. No one else is giving them to me at the moment. For example, Valvira is frozen to give these. According to the OM, it is not possible to intervene now, because the government is changing, but these patients who are going to court cannot expect the government to change and perhaps at some point someone will do something. We've been in a bad situation for 10 years. Now is the time to intervene. In the administrative sector of the STM, the budget has provided for 189 million operating conditions for agencies and institutions. Will the necessary amount be allocated to the experts used by the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u231	Madam President! When there is a place to thank, it must be done, and I would like to warmly thank Minister Saarikko for the extension of the birth permit of the Meeläinen West Ostrobothnia joint venture. We have a big problem in Lapland too, and there is no desire for children to be born anymore, and then in the future the Lapland Central Hospital will probably also be covered by this exemption procedure. But it is a good thing that we now have the extension to negotiate this matter in order. But then there are also concerns: these pilot calculations on social welfare and regional reform show that EUR 33.6 million, or EUR 187 per inhabitant, are going to leave Lapland, and this is so much that we do not really know how we are going to manage with this remaining money and manage these services in the vast province of Lapland. I would also like to mention this special allocation for the Sami, which has been under the STM item, EUR 480000, and which has provided social services for the Sámi-speaking population. Can you promise me that this separate money will still be preserved?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u232	Madam President! Many cuts, both index cuts and increases in customer fees, as well as drug reimbursement cuts, have affected the same people. Now I would particularly like to hear from you ministers about the current situation of type two diabetics and about the replacement surgery. I looked at those statistics, and about 15,000 people used these more expensive antidiabetic drugs, of which their share increased by up to EUR 200 to 400, or very significantly. And in my own experience, many may even have left these medicines off or reduced their dose on their own. Of course, this will increase inequality and, of course, it will not be good if economic reasons cause us not to be able to afford these medicines. Many diabetics find it terribly annoying. Because they are often multi - diseased and so forth, they feel that why this disease is still being punished in this way. Have you followed these and have you assessed the overall effects on type 2 diabetics due to this surgery?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u233	Mr President! A few thanks have already been made here for this veteran solution, and I too would like to express this thanks to all the group leaders, but also to all the parliamentary groups and parliamentarians, and also to the government ministers, for their good cooperation in this matter. Very rarely, and a little too rarely, decisions are reached here, all of which are united, but in this matter of our honour citizens it was achieved, and it is a fine and elegant thing. Veterans' organisations have been hoping for this solution for years, and now it is finally being implemented. Everyone understands that if this is not done now, it will be too late in a few years. That warm thanks to all those who contributed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u234	Let’s take about ten more minutes of debatt, and then the ministers’ answer, and then the debatt continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u235	Mr President! Current treatment recommendations are national treatment recommendations that Finnish doctors are required to use in their work under the Valvira Directive. The recommendations will be drawn up and developed through the funding of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. However, the treatment recommendations have not been translated into Swedish. The same applies to the Pharmaca Fennica Manual, which is a commercial product. Today, this lack of Swedish-speaking material endangers patient safety in Åland. The Parliamentary Ombudsman therefore stated in 2015 that national treatment recommendations should be translated into Swedish. Three years have now passed since the decision of the Parliamentary Ombudsman, but Swedish translations of this material are still missing. I therefore ask Minister Saarikko: when does the government intend to allocate funds? Translation of current treatment recommendations and summary of product characteristics into Swedish?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u236	Mr President! In 2017, the average earnings of women amounted to around 83.4% of the average earnings of men and in euros this meant EUR 600. Here it says in the budget book: ‘The implementation of the three equal pay programmes with the social partners is What does this mean in practice? I'll ask Minister Saariko. I understand very well from experience that actual pay is a matter for the social partners, but how does the Minister see, for example, the need for family leave reform to improve the labour market position of women?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u237	Mr President! I am very pleased with the measures taken on behalf of the most disadvantaged. These include, for example, reducing the retention days of the incomeless sv allowance from 55 to the level of the other sufferers, as well as raising the smallest maternity, parental and sv allowances by approximately EUR 80 per month. The addition of parental allowance days for single mothers to paternity allowance is also a great thing. But, Mr President, Ministers, there is, however, worrying child poverty in Finland, which has been repeatedly addressed, for example, by the Child Affairs Ombudsman. I'm sure we all agree that the country needs children. So I ask the ministers: were there any other measures in the budget debate for families with children, such as the correction of child supplements?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u238	Madam President! I would like to thank the government for one detail that the ministers did not mention, at least I did not see it. This budget book says that the 55-day period for sickness allowance will be abolished, which is really good news and will correct the trap that may have taken place, for example, by housewives or students. This withdrawal of the minimum daily allowance from the incomeless came from the government of Paavo Lipponen. It was subsequently adjusted so that the retention period was reduced to 55 days, but it has created quite unreasonable situations for some incomeless people, thanks to the fact that this is now going away. I hope that you will answer that question by Mr Tanus —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u239	Mr President! We really have over 100,000 children living in poverty. There are thousands of people in food queues every week, and pensioner poverty also affects a huge number of Finns. So, ladies and gentlemen, will you be able to answer in a year's time, at the end of 2019, the situation in this regard? Has this budget improved the situation? If you are unable to answer now, we will start hearing our officials in the section next Tuesday, and I hope that they will be able to answer these questions — child poverty, hunger queues and pensioner poverty, what measures are you going to take in these? — and that there will be an answer as to whether well-being belongs to everyone. Benefits or services? They can't be separated, they need both. In particular, improvements in benefits and services are needed for older people. Then the government has chosen
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u240	Madam President! There was a great deal of concern about elderly services during the recent Question Time. This has highlighted the concerns of family carers. I would have asked if the government had discussed the fundamental problem of family carers, who are, for example, lobbyists to this elderly person. These people are forced to run on foot, so to speak, in the search for medicines when the Omanta service cannot be logged in. This is precisely the work of family carers that will take up unnecessary time. So the question is: has there been any thought within the government about how to get enough resources, that is, money, into the Kela system so that this information management problem can be removed and smoothed out in that respect for people and the elderly?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u241	Mr President! This week we are celebrating Memory Week, so for all colleagues good Memory Week. The Memory Federation encourages all of us to do things that are memory-friendly. Unfortunately, the government's actions are not always such, and the latest example of this is that I believe that the government is proposing in next year's budget that more than EUR 4 million be saved from care for the elderly by revising quality recommendations. Have I understood this yellow book correctly? In practice — if this is the case — this would mean lowering the size of the staff or compromising the professional requirements, and this would mean reducing the quality of life for older people in service housing and community homes. The situation is already bad in many community homes and in service housing, and the Ombudsman has repeatedly expressed the view that something should be done about this situation. Finally, Minister Saarikko: The community home is also home. In other words, enhanced service housing is not institutional housing, it is home housing,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u242	Madam President! Good health care outcomes require development, and the combination of different sources of information is the way forward. As part of the growth strategy, the budget includes the budget of the Genome and Cancer Centre and the Centre for the Development of Medicinal Products. On the other hand, there has now been much discussion in Parliament about the secondary use of health data. Do you see, Minister Saarikko, that the new licensing authority will provide security for current research activities, linking new sources of information with existing information systems? And how do you see, i.e., will research be carried out in the future by Finnish researchers, or do you see that data could be transferred abroad, for example, without processing, and made available to a foreign researcher?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u243	Mr President! I am particularly pleased that more than 100 million were funded for knowledge and research. Young researchers in particular have been taken into account and polytechnics and various innovation activities have also been taken into account. The study has immediate improvements in disease identification or patient care. More effective treatment is in the interests of both the patient and society, thus also achieving direct cost savings. Assessment of the effectiveness and effectiveness of surgery or the effectiveness of new treatments is also the result of research. However, the importance of funding for clinical research cannot be justified from one autumn to the next. We therefore need a long-term commitment to clinical and basic medical research, and steps should be taken to this end. Is there a plan of this kind?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u244	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Saarikko for keeping the vaccination policy high. That is very good, and we need an even better vaccination policy across our country and we also need the understanding from our young parents that they see how important it is to vaccinate their children. But, Mr President, I am very concerned about the situation that currently exists in our country. When reforms are made, they should be done in such a way that citizens feel that they are fair. Now, however, the hospital network has been driven down in such a way that small hospitals are no longer allowed to perform simple daily surgery. An activity that has worked well and which the patients have been satisfied with is now banned. And at the same time, there is also an emergency cry from certain central hospitals. This concentration regulation is taking us to a situation where central hospitals also have problems with certain cuts. They are required to have an on-call facility, but at the same time they say that you are not allowed to operate during the day if you do not reach a certain amount. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u245	Madam President! The government has done a good job, and there are many things and points for which we can thank the government. This time, I'm going to bring up the shelter business. I would like to thank the government for finding money for this very important activity. The money will be increased by EUR 2 million and the total will now be EUR 19.6 million, which is almost EUR 20 million. From experience, I know that in many acute violent situations a shelter is sometimes the only way to help and protect a person who has been subjected to violence. Unfortunately, it seems that violence in close relationships is not decreasing but is increasing. That is why it is very good that the government has recognised this problem, reacted to this problem and specifically allocated appropriations to the acute need. Thank you for the government's action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u246	Mr President! I paid exactly the same attention as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. Here, on page 346 of the budget book, there are indeed 4300000 euro to check quality recommendations for older services. This is something that you would like to see answered: are you really going to cut more than EUR 4 million in the quality of care for the elderly? Nursing staff and doctors do not have enough time for the elderly to attend even with the current dimensions. In particular, attendance would be needed for hospice workers. This hospice care would be desirable if we were to have a law on hospice care here in Parliament. I would ask the Minister: are you preparing it and bringing it here to Parliament for decision?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u247	Madam President! I would like to raise the same issue as Mr Hongisto. Finland is therefore a very dangerous country for women. Nearly one in three women have encountered violence in their relationship, that is, one in three women. In the summer, Prime Minister Sipilä said that he had finally woken up after reading a report from the Ministry of the Interior reviewing these harsh figures. His exits and comments seemed so genuine that I had the courage to hope that there would be meaningful actions in this budget. This adds EUR 2 million to the financing of shelters, which is a very good thing, thanks to the government. Same as the year before: the trend is now right, the direction is right. But I cannot help but be disappointed that there is no more to be done, because we have signed the Istanbul agreement and we are committed to having the necessary number of shelters. According to the Council of Europe's recommendation, there should be more than 500 seats in a country the size of Finland, when this year's increase will not even allow us to reach 200. Which means we're far too far away. At this rate of funding, we will be able to reach this recommendation in 20-29. Do you think this is enough? And has the government considered it — because shelters are only one service that we can provide to victims of violence?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u248	Mr President! There are good questions here and I am not going to repeat, for example, Mr Modig's question. The need is very great, and we support the Minister's need for additional funds, for example, to provide asylum for victims of trafficking in human beings. My question, too, is about poverty, especially for women, single-parent families, families of single-parent mothers for young children and then old women, their situation in life, and older women are also affected by a large part of the memory problem. I would like to ask: we know that poverty in early childhood also has a very damaging effect on the development of the child. Would it be possible for us to finally find a solution to the way in which the reconciliation of child allowances and income support will be cut off? Because of all child supplements
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u249	Let us take three answers to this and then let us take the answers of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u250	Mr President! Thank you to the government first of all for the EUR 70 million package that will correct the cuts that were made at the beginning of the parliamentary term — that work must, of course, continue in the future. Actually, two questions: The first is that I have been very confused by the feedback I have received recently from vaccinations. Does the Minister have an answer as to why this is because so many people are now afraid of this vaccination? Or has it just happened that I am a random person who receives more feedback than usual? But extraordinarily much has come now. Then the Social Insurance Institution for the transport of Kela. Mr Mattila, I very much hope that this will be done in such a way that a person can continue to be able to use the same taxi on the way back. I know this problem of tendering and I know someone who has contributed to it. I believe that Kela is looking for solutions — I have also gone there to negotiate this — to find a way that there could be a return rate. It also saves climate change from unnecessary driving. This is going to be more expensive for Kela, we already know it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u251	Mr President! I was just thinking during Question Time — and now that I look around the Members of the Chamber — that what we really, really could do about the situation of these elderly services. It is pointless to go behind words or mantras, or, as it were, to defend ourselves on this matter, who has done what he has done. The current situation is in line with the need for change and the need for change to take place soon. I think we all recognize this. The second point is this inequality, which is also raised in this budget book as one of the themes for next year: reducing inequality. I have to ask Minister Mattila: What is the basis for these index freezes on social benefits in this situation, where all government ministers say that the economy is growing and the situation in private households is improving? It is not social policy recommendations, and there are not even policy recommendations for central government finances. Wisdom, even financial wisdom, is not to increase inequality in Finland — it is only ideological.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u252	Congressman Mikkonen, then the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u253	Mr President! It has been wonderful to hear in this Chamber how much we agree that we must tackle this poverty, because the reality in Finland today is that we have a growing number of poor people and poor children. However, in this budget, those efforts to combat poverty... — It is good that the minimum daily allowance was increased, but the index cuts that remain there in basic security, the level of basic security was not increased, the student allowance has been reduced. And when we know that poverty and disease often go hand in hand, it has not been taken into account in these failures of payment in such a way as to be combined. I've been wondering why these good speeches don't come true. I personally think that one of the reasons might be that we do not have proper indicators for it. We have indicators for employment, we have indicators for debt, and we usually get ahead of them. But we should create proper indicators of how we measure poverty so that we can ensure that we get out of poverty, and year after year, year after year, budget after year, this situation will improve.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u254	And then Minister Saarikko. Let's get out of here for three minutes, but if we have to, we can extend it a little bit. And then let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u255	Mr President! Thank you for a very wide-ranging and valuable debate in which we also found many common denominators. I will try to answer a few smaller specific questions first. I'll start with the vaccines. They were asked at least by representatives Anttila, Henriksson and Rehn-Kivi. We therefore have in the budget a proposal to put a little more money into influenza vaccines so that a group of children who are covered by publicly funded vaccinations for influenza vaccines will be raised. This parliamentary term is already a good decision on the varicella vaccine, which was also included in the vaccination programme. And it is quite true that I am deeply concerned about vaccine coverage. It is not just a Finnish problem, it is a very international issue, which also involves a great deal of distorted information, which is disseminated by social media. Vaccines are one of the key cornerstones of Finnish public health. As far as these feedbacks are concerned, which have been largely linked to the contacts of the social workers and to the law on communicable diseases, which has been seen as an expropriation of the vaccine. This is now being carefully examined by the Ministry with employees and employers. At present, the law does not allow it as grounds for dismissal, and the concerns of medical staff in particular have been linked to influenza vaccination. Now we are going to look at this section, and I very much hope that the committee, if such a change is now introduced — as we have outlined in the ministry — will then be able to deal quickly with that section if the staff, the employers and the ministry in this area quickly reach a good agreement. So that concern in that regard has been heard. Now, the individual question. Representative Löfström expressed a legitimate concern about the Oikelä care recommendations and similar recommendations implemented in practice by Duodecim and their Swedish translation. I am in the impression that there is a translation of the Duodecim Health Care Recommendations on memory disorders, but not enough of them. I do not know this question well enough and I hope that we can study it together. The current treatment recommendation has been funded with a separate grant for this year's treatment of relatives or suicide attempt in Finnish, but we have not been able to finance the extension in Swedish at all, and that concern is justified. The second minority issue concerned Mr Ojala-Niemela's concern about the status of the Sámi. I'm going to bring it up in two ways: First of all, as part of the wider reconciliation process, as it were in the history of the Sámi people, funding for psychosocial support was increased by one and a half million under the budget of the Prime Minister's Office. It therefore also has a strong dimension to social and health services in the context of psychosocial support, as it were in the past. Then, as you have asked, the more specific separate funding for social services, the amount of less than half a million euros: it will remain a separate funding under the STM budget, as you specifically asked. Mr Laitinen-Pesola, you asked about the same pay programme. It is a high-level negotiating board, as if it were a discussion body for which I would like to play a stronger role. During this parliamentary term, it has focused in particular on educational segregation, which is an important factor behind wage equality. That entry in the budget book is important because, when the government changes and the elections are over, there would not be any pause at all, but as if the new government, within the framework of that entry, would hopefully commit itself to continuing this committee. Then, Mr President-in-Office, there were a great many speeches relating to old age — that is a very wide-ranging question, and the answers are not short — as are family poverty and child protection. I'm trying to bring up a few themes. What could I imagine in the budget are the answers to birth rates and family poverty in family politics? The withdrawal of minimum daily allowance in the portfolio of the Secretary of State. Putting different families in the same position, including adoption families in relation to the family leave system. For next year, the Government will allocate EUR 15 million in additional funding to child welfare and family services under the Act on Social Welfare for families with children. I think this is important. Chairman! If there is an opportunity, I will, of course, be happy to continue this issue of the elderly, too, if necessary. [President PaulaRisikko: Do you want to stay here or not?]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u260	Next up is Minister Mattila. Let's start with three minutes and see what happens at that point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u261	Thank you, Madam President. Let us start with the question of what has been discussed a lot here, namely whether growth belongs to everyone. Mr Kankaanniemi asked a question, a reasoned question, that what would improve, whether the situation would improve. If these specific government measures are considered here and the daily allowance increases by EUR 80 per month, then I think it is a significant improvement. Or, in view of Lex Lindström, who has brought up to EUR 200 per month in pension support, I think that is an improvement. The same applies to the cases that have already been raised here: 55 days' allowance, withdrawal of the guarantee pension, reduction of the pharmaceutical ceiling — the reduction of the annual liability for purchases of medicines — which, in my opinion, are the exact measures that will improve the situation. This has, of course, been done in accordance with its decision on the spending limits. As Minister of Responsibility, I have brought these laws, including its index freeze, but the overall budget can be described as neutral in terms of the distribution of income if we consider tax solutions or, for example, the abolition of Yle-tax from the lowest income. Congressman Nurminen, you asked a good question about diabetes medicines. Kela’s research blogs also contain information about these. After all, the government was required by a committee statement to monitor the situation caused by the change in the reimbursement of medicines for diabetes. Here, for example, statistical data from 2017: consumption has decreased by 1.4 per cent according to Kela statistics. According to the study, this has not had any effect on income support, i.e. that this change has contributed to the increased application for income support. Of course, I cannot go too far in myself into this medicine, but there must also be some change in treatment practices. Mr Harkimo, you asked an important question about this statement by the Supreme Court, which has been in the STM, for example, during the debate in June. In other words, I requested the preliminary view of the STM, and the STM considers this initiative to be appropriate. Discussions have taken place in June with the medical districts, and it has appeared that this problem would not be quite as acute as the Supreme Court's initiative. On the legislative process: This does not depend on this government not having time to give this, but good legislation and its adoption also takes time, and I think it has to be granted when such a proposal is being prepared — whatever it involves, analysis and other things related to the drafting of the law anyway. It is also true that there is a strict list of laws in Parliament, but, as a rule, this should be viewed positively. Mr President, may I continue for a moment? [Second Vice-PresidentTuulaHaatainen : Overtime, but taking half a minute. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u264	Then let's go to the debatt. I will continue to ask those who wish to participate in the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u265	Mr President! Minister Mattila, you did not answer anything on the basis of these index cuts in this situation. Thus, in a situation where the economy of others is improving and growing, index cuts increase inequality in our country. We know that such index cuts in this situation are not based on social policy theories, nor are they based on economic policy theories. That is why I would like to ask you an answer on the basis of what this is based on: why have you ended up doing index cuts even in this situation? In addition, I would have asked how to boast that the annual liability limit for medicines is reduced. EUR 5 million is a hasty patch for cutting 20 million of type 2 diabetes medicines in 2017, increasing the allowance for medical benefits by 12.5 million and abolishing the coeliac compensation, minus 10 million. So the sick and low-income are still far below zero as a result of government cuts, even after this proposal. In the third place, I would like to ask about the situation of the elderly, which we did not receive an answer to. So why — and is that really the case — are the quality recommendations for older people being cut? What these cuts mean in practice
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u266	Mr President! I would also like to return to this debate on the elderly, which has been here and also in Question Time. Of course, we all agree that there are many problems in the care of the elderly and that we need to correct the situation with the reform of social security. But I would have drawn attention to the fact that in all the debates we are talking about how the number of older people is increasing. Minister Saarikko mentioned this dependency ratio, which is therefore a mathematical proportion of those over 65 years of age. In this debate, it is often forgotten that older people are also getting better and better. The health of 70-year-olds is about the same as that of 60-65-year-olds 30 years ago. So the problems are affecting older people. I would have asked Minister Saariko how to take account of this structural change for older people and, perhaps even more, how to further promote the ability of older people to function.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u267	Mr President! We're celebrating Memory Week now. In Finland, about 15,000 people suffer from memory sickness every year. We have 200,000 people with memory disorders, and we government parties have a strong will that every age person can live a life of his own in spite of a memory disease. The Government has an excellent top project to develop home care. It has produced very good results: home rehabilitation, the one-stop-shop principle provides help, there is a desire to develop different housing options — models that you can then take as municipal decision-makers in your own municipality. The intention would be to introduce these good practices when the social and regional reform comes, but now it is moving and the money for the top project is running out. So I ask Minister Saariko: What steps will you take to ensure that these good practices are put into practice, now that the reform of social security is to be replaced by a new rhythm? Shouldn't we take care of this at the national level? If it is left to the municipalities alone, I do not believe that it will succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u268	Madam President! The care of the elderly is very important. This theme never gets old — it feels like it here. With the wars, older people in particular are at the heart of it and we need care providers, small operators, and of course the biggest ones. How, then, do you now, in the midst of this war, ensure that small operators, for example, are able to maintain a family home? However, it is a demanding job, and there is also a need for nursing resources, and yet for an entrepreneur, care is rarely a big business. It is good that this issue of vaccination, to which the Finnish nurses have been subjected, will be resolved to the bottom, because there will be so much feedback and so bad it feels that we are facing a risk of dismissal because there will be no such answer or solutions. I'd like to ask you the same question as the last representative about hospice care. After all, the Finns of Finland made a bill on the hospice law. After all, there is no law. It should be written from start to finish. Are these government measures now ensuring equal hospice care?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u269	Madam President! During the summer, when the Kela taxi reform came into force, we parliamentarians received a huge number of messages from alarmed people, sick people, old people: Kela taxis will not come, it will have to wait excessively long, cannot get the treatment they need, there is no appropriate number of people with disabilities who have been disabled. For example, there are far too few entrepreneurs in Central Uusimaa, because Kela's tenders have gone completely wrong and have also been unreasonable to these taxi entrepreneurs. Now would be the time for the Minister to intervene more seriously in this situation. It cannot just be said that we have gone for the better, when a clear message is still coming from different parts of Uusimaa, from Lake Lapland last time, that these rides still don't work. What are you, Minister, doing to get these Kela rides working and working?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u270	Mr President! It is good to remember that index freezing does not apply to income support, and despite index freezing, minimum daily allowances will rise and the guarantee pension will rise and the cap on medicines will fall. In my view, the impact of index freezes is very minimal, given the government's increases in the level of daily allowances and guarantee pensions and the changes in taxation. The new educational material supplement will also improve households, especially those with low financial standing. In all respects, however, these static calculations do not take account of the employment impact of economic policy, which is changing the income distribution effects of economic policy in a more positive direction. All in all, however, the decisions of the Government have been either slightly income differentials or neutral depending on the assumptions and the indicators used.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u271	Mr President, värderade talman! Jag vill annu lyfta upp frågan om de ersättningar som beviljas om det under beväringstiden sketcht en olycka där beväringar invalidiserats eller omkommit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u272	Madam President! Actually, about the same thing: So it is wonderful that in the future, additional compensation can be paid to those who carry on military service in this important country who suffer from injury or even death. And Mrs Juvonen has done a very good job here, which is how things can proceed through good cooperation across government-opposition boundaries. I would also like to thank the ministers of our Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for this matter for the veterans of the front. It is a great thing that now, in the end, we are going to get all of our honourable citizens on the same page. Whether they are war-qualified or men or women serving on the front, they will now receive all the same services. I would like to thank you for this, but also all the fellow Members who have been taking the matter forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u273	Madam President! This is where Mr Karimäki raised the unfortunate situation of the Kela rides due to this competition, and I have personally provided Minister Mattila with information on the latest inverse events that have taken place in the Upper Savo region. In other words, when this agency has not received enough of these contract drivers, it has taken off with an apprenticeship — an apprenticeship — to train new drivers whose sole requirement was the management of a B licence. The question arises as to whether these apprentice drivers are those who are driven by the transport of people with disabilities, the transport of people with long-term illnesses, the transport of disadvantaged persons who certainly require professional skills and experience. In that sense, I would like to see everything done in the ministry done now, examined what went so badly wrong in this competition. And it is really wrong for the local entrepreneurs to bring in this way, as it were, a disruption to this market situation for these apprentices.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u274	Madam President! There is an important issue of fairness in social and health care payments. We know that customer fees have been increased by 30% during this government term. Unfortunately, this has been observed by municipalities throughout Finland. We also know that services are most widely used by people over the age of 85, for which it can be said that 32% of pensioners over the age of 85 belong to the lowest income. Then these government-imposed cuts, index cuts, also apply to this same population group. Now these people have had a fear of whether they have access to services, whether they have the ability to receive these services. We also have the opportunity to be moderated in these matters. Now, however, this is in no way being done anywhere, but in practice it is a dead letter. Now I would ask, Minister Mattila: what will you do to ensure that this reasonable payment of customers is genuinely implemented across Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u275	Madam President! A couple of things about this heavy agricultural situation, I would like to express my concern about that. Getting skilled workers on leave today is a major challenge for developing farms, and the budget is also set aside for apprenticeships of less than EUR 200,000 now. Is this in any way in the opinion of the ministers that we can also ensure that, in the future, those farmers and entrepreneurs will also be able to take leave with the help of a skilled holidaymaker? And even more important today is that when you need someone to take care of you when an entrepreneur falls ill, you must have the highest level of professionalism. Another concern is the issue of debt payments. Now there was also an appropriation for reducing interest on late payments in the budget. Could there still be something to be done about this, so that these debt payments do not go so quickly from the entrepreneur to enforcement, but that the financing of the interest on late payments could also extend the payment period?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u276	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I regret, as most of us in this Chamber, the delay in the reform of the social security system. This is why many health care development projects now have to wait. Health inequalities and differences in life expectancy between men and women remain significant. Similarly, there are differences in the use of health services. Women use health services more than men, and women also live on average for six years longer than men. Particularly worrying are the differences between regions in terms of life expectancy. Son babies born in Ostrobothnia live and can expect to live for 3.8 years longer than their peers born in Etelä-Savo. What measures will be taken in the Ministry now and in the coming year to reduce the differences in health and life expectancy while awaiting the implementation of the social welfare reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u277	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Heinose and Mr Rehn-Kive, for mentioning this matter concerning the conscripts. That's why I came back because I heard we were having this conversation. I thank you for that. And I repeat my question: I believe that justice and fairness and the cause of everyone's heart in this Parliament is that the Finnish garrison also receives the insurance cover that the crisis manager then received on 1 January 2017. It is a very good thing that these women who go into the army voluntarily and carry out the statutory military service are also being taken into account. But could the law be applied retroactively? In other words, those who have already been injured or, if there has been a death, would be entitled to compensation. I believe that it is such a matter that it is a state of will for all, and in it we would show that we are in the cause of justice and fairness. That is what I am going to make an initiative for action and I would like you, ministers, to go through it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u278	Mr President! One of the main problems at the moment in home care, in service housing and in community homes is that it is not able to carry out functional and supportive nursing work — that is, rehabilitative work. Rehabilitating care requires adequate and professional staff, and I have recently received such sad messages that many community homes have turned into a shelter-like place where people are mostly cared for in bed because, due to lack of staff, day-to-day rehabilitation can no longer be provided. That is why I renewed my question when the Minister probably did not answer it just now: are you really going to save by revising the quality recommendations? Since, in practice, this revision of the quality recommendations means that the dimensions will be revised downwards. In the future, it will be more difficult to carry out rehabilitation work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u279	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here about the Kela taxis, and most of them work. A very close person calls me a week earlier, and until now, taxis have arrived in their time, but there is probably still room for improvement. Then: We all get older and so do I, and we know that parents are healthier and live for a long time. Then there has been talk of home care for the elderly, and there are a lot of those people with memory problems, and the papers read about these deaths of the elderly and everything. But I also remember the time when I myself have taken care of the parents, as in Germany and other European countries, family care for the elderly. This was stopped in Finland in the '70s. I'm talking about my own county. There, everyone will be given this opportunity for informal care if they want to. Then there are many different organizations and congregations, friendships that visit the elderly,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u280	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that the situation of our veterans in our wars will be substantially improved from the beginning of next year. Services to be provided at home come in the same way as the war ombudsmen have so far. I think this improvement is very good and it is very good that all the parliamentary groups are equally involved in this and that it has been a common cause for us. We should all be very grateful for that. The second point is this, which I would like to ask the ministers when this on-call regulation has been mentioned in this debate a couple of times: I know that in the North Savo—Karjala region, for example, there is the problem that when there is a university hospital in Kuopio and there is a regional hospital in Joensuu like this, I think there will be such a waste of time with hair licking, where medically there will be a competition for various measures, even though, for example, Joensuu Hospital has excellent cancer care services and there will also be very demanding surgical treatment, and then Kuopio University Hospital will find that excellence. Is there some way to balance this? This is hardly a parliament. This is an operational activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u281	Mr President! Today, even during Question Time, I was able to ask questions on issues that are of concern, at least as regards the fact that there is also a lot of fear and insecurity in the air that we should be better able to answer in this House. This relates both to the concern of older people as to whether it is possible to get old in this country so that they can get help and support in the future, and also to those young people who may easily fall outside society. Therefore, I think there is much room for sparring as to how better to do in these areas. Since the debate has already taken place, I think that I am asking, now that there is a chance, to the ministers, whether you have already considered in this social work how we could actually respond to people's real needs for services. Much has been said about the service promise and it has been considered that in the autumn it will then be the last policy line, but could it be thought of,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u282	Mr President! Some time ago I read an article in the paper where the farmer went from house to house and showed the reporters houses how, by his own hand, the farmer stopped himself or otherwise in a very difficult mental situation, where the farm’s economy was in a bad condition. I have heard the shocking reports of project workers about how the farms are doing badly and how the farm's economy and animal management have taken away the last resources. I would like to thank the Government and Minister Saarikko for the additional budget allocation of 3 million. Take care of the farmer project, where these problems are being addressed. I would like to ask the Minister whether this appropriation is sufficient, and by what means could this important project continue as a more permanent activity?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u283	Madam President! These index freezes have rightly been raised here. It must be remembered that the basis for them is the economic situation in which we were in 2015. If the economy is adjusted — and I would stress this: this government was forced to adapt after the previous government had to adapt to the Finnish economy — then we must intervene in such large entities. And that's how they did it. Now the economy has been adapted, employment is growing, more than 100,000 people are employed. It must be remembered that index freezing does not apply to income support, and the minimum daily allowance increases despite that index freezing and the guarantee pension increases and the medical cap falls. Good decisions have therefore been made once the economy has been put in order. But what I particularly want to thank the government for, which I have discussed with the organisations, is this improvement in the status of adoption and plural families. The paternity allowance is granted to the fathers on an extended basis and the single mother of the child is granted the right to parental allowance days equivalent to the paternity allowance. Solutions of this kind are those that should also be seen during the next term of government. Specific measures
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u284	Mr President! The extent of the debate is likely to arise by saying that it is a political choice and a matter of will that we want to save in difficult times, and it is often measured by the way we treat our weakest. In this respect, I would have understood that in 2015 emergency braking was continued in so far as severe savings had to be made. But no one understands that when the economy pulls, the people who have given the most of all are by no means getting back the economic fruits, the great fruits of growth. These small streams do not constitute a credible path that we know, and we believe that the government really thinks that this can be done. I think it's a word-eater. In 2015, the Prime Minister appealed to everyone to give a little of their own and then to give back, as it were, what has been given back to the state in these difficult times,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u285	Madam President! When we look at this state budget proposal for 2019, it certainly warms my mind that more jobs are coming, it is the best that Finns can get, but also that there are budget increases. Minimum daily allowances will be increased by EUR 80 and another 50 cents. This is a major improvement. The fact that minimum daily allowances are rising to the level of labour market support is a very good reform. The guarantee pension will be increased. The guarantee pension will be increased, Congressman Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u288	Representative Salonen, and then I give the floor to Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u289	Mr President! The increase in the minimum benefits proposed by the government is very necessary, and we must thank you for those increases. But it does not eliminate the fact that they are only a fraction of the cuts in social security as a whole during this government period. So you can't wrap it in a shiny package and just show it to me without looking at the contents. The contents must also be seen open. As far as guarantee pensions are concerned, it is true that there have been increases in guarantee pensions. But isn't it, ministers, that these increases barely cover the gap in purchasing power that has already been in the past? Congressman Kulmala said here that well then there is the income support. It is absurd to think that people are being transferred to income support if the primary benefits are too low. Income support is a last resort benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u290	I now give a reply to Minister Saarikko, three minutes, please. You can pretend to be there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u291	Mr President! Thank you for this constant debate. I will also answer some of the questions that have not been raised in the previous round. First of all, this broad and important theme of old age, which was already touched upon during Question Time. The question is, what is the sum of EUR 4 million in the budget book? It relates to the EUR 35 million package that was decided to save through central government transfers of elderly services, and as if one part of it was implemented from 2017 onwards is now that amount. I am not particularly proud of it and therefore openly opposed to it. But at the same time I would like to say two things. Firstly, it is difficult to calculate how much money is currently being spent on elderly services. We have a terrible inability to record and tabulate the amounts of euro that are used for old age in Finland. But at least one figure is that central government contributions based on over 65-year-olds are allocated EUR 6 billion to municipalities. And when you're dealing with $4 million, these guys are going to be on some scale. The second point I would like to make is that we did not weaken the human resources. It was suggested here that, well, that would affect the human resources. The quality recommendations did not reduce the staffing dimension of what it had previously been. It is therefore a question of other ways of seeking to improve the efficiency of activities in elderly services. I understand that this is not particularly easy, and that is where questions such as technology need to be looked at. I understand that municipalities are in a tight position here, and fortunately, the improved economic situation in municipalities has a positive effect that this sum, divided into all Finnish municipalities and older people, cannot be a reversal of the large picture of how much funding is allocated to elderly services. I am also pleased that you are raising the issue of hospice care. After all, last year there was money in the budget for hospice care, which was so-called transfer appropriations, which is still available for next year. This is accompanied by the shared, very much united, view of the euthanasia citizens' initiative and its further work in this House, so that hospice care and palliative care are dealt with under the same heading as it were. This is what the Ministry has set up a very broad-based group of experts, and it is its task to take a position on, among other things, these pieces of law, which I myself have been rather positive about, for example, the fact that there is not only a valuable death in service housing, but also, at best, death in a person's own home, so that the issues of pain and treatment can be brought as close as possible. And as far as the money spent on ageing is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, in the next few decades there will also be an enormous amount more money spent on ageing in Finland than now because of the increase in the number of older people, so that the talk about cutting down on services for the elderly is not true. More and more money is being spent on older people in an ageing Finland, because that is what we have to and we want to do so that ageing can be valuable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u294	Does Minister Mattila wish to respond at this stage or at the end? — Minister Mattila, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u295	Madam Speaker! The specific actions of this budget are precisely those that bring citizens into the primary, right-hand field of benefit, and this work is also being carried out in other ministries. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has a joint project with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in which the commentators Oivo and the Collector seek solutions to the hard core of long-term unemployment, so that the unemployed are also covered by the right benefits, including rehabilitation. Mr Hakanen, you raised the question of a temporary reduction in the interest on late payments for farmers' pension contributions. That is how this work is going to continue, and it is extremely important that, even through this, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, from my own administrative sector, be able to support farmers' survival. Well, then this taxi question: Yes, just like that, 100% should pass these rides. Transports under the Disability Services Act are, after all, competitive with the municipality, so that in this respect it is also a little confused with these services for disabled people. But the ministry does not have a powerful command to go quickly to organise these transports — and perhaps the minister should not go to organise them — but it is there that Kela has the authority to do so. Kela also has the power to seek alternative solutions if these so-called Kela rides do not run, and then intervene in that competitive situation. There are also conditions for dismantling, and before that, of course, these sanctions imposed on service providers have been used. On the other hand, I also think that Kela performs a huge amount of its tasks well. In the everyday life of all Finns, Kela is shown in some way, and many benefits go without us noticing. But there's been a problem. On the other hand, I want to trust Kela.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u296	Mr President! Minister Saarikko was on his way out, but I already thanked him for the fact that it is a great thing that he admitted fairly that the savings of more than 4 million are now going to be made in elderly care in one way or another. This is sad in that sense, as the Minister himself acknowledged, that the needs for care and care are increasing and, nevertheless, resources are diminishing. This is a bad equation. Then I have another question for Minister Mattila. Earlier, we were talking about those type 2 antidiabetic medicines, and you said that the follow-up information has now been gathered from them. How do you interpret the results, for example — if I understood correctly — that it shows that the use of antidiabetic drugs has decreased? Could one explanation be that people cannot afford to buy those antidiabetic drugs? At least I keep getting the exact messages that the drugs have not been bought because the money has run out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u297	Madam President! Now that the economy is doing better, the government gives better benefits to the rich but, on the other hand, these index freezes for the poorest have not been restored. We have 120,000 poor children, pensioner poverty is increasing, medical benefits are being cut. There's a lot of people out there suffering. Many elderly people wonder if they can buy medicines or bread when there is not enough money for everything. You said, Minister, that Kela is responsible for these taxi rides. I'm sure this whole Kela-Tax mess is due to your own legislative changes. You have a responsibility to check that the legislation is in place to ensure that all sick people get to treatment on time. Finally, I would like to make a positive point: I am glad that now the groups together can support our honourable citizens, the veterans. Years of work were done to ensure that all the war-qualified received the services to be taken home,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u298	Madam President! Mr Karimäki finished very well, but the beginning needs to be addressed. In view of this general economic situation, we have had to make economic adjustments, as I said, and this index freeze is linked to it. But, on the other hand, if income tax has been reduced by more than EUR 1.4 billion, it has, in fact, been relatively focused on the low and middle incomes, i.e. the poor in themselves, if the low incomes think so. Then, of course, the question is that if more than 120,000 jobs appear to be created during this reign, then by my common sense, the poor, the low-income ones, then, on a social scale, for example, will rise to average income through work and their family in particular will become more prominent. And, of course, Mr Mattila's proposal and the Blues' initiative in this budget debate decided to remove the 55-day allowance for sickness benefit, and then, earlier in the spending limits debate, the increase in these minimum sickness and parental allowances was decided. People have been brought to work and specific measures have been taken specifically for the benefit of the poor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u299	Mr President! Representative Elo: Yes, it is a great thing that someone gets up to work from there and as if through it the economy is gradually improving. Often there is such a long time behind the low economy that it takes a lot of time to get the economy in order. But what about those who are still there for benefits? They're the ones we're worried about. And as far as these services for the elderly are concerned, it has to be said that more is being spent on services for the elderly. Well, this is how you can say when you look at the whole amount, but you have to remember two things: the number of old people is increasing, but we people are also living longer, which is natural, that these amounts are increasing. That's why we have to look at the cost per senior. Have they gone up? They're not up yet. And now what do the municipalities do? The aim is to reduce social spending in anticipation of social reform, because it is known that it will increase the number of state transfers to the remaining municipalities. What's the point, Minister Mattila?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u300	Madam President! That is where Mr Salonen asked a very relevant question: what should be done? My impression is that the Social Democrats also have their own model of social security reform, and so do many other parties. Blues have also presented their own basic security model, which is based on consideration, that everyone must actively apply for work. For example, the problem for a low-income person — who is currently working — is often with the capital region as to whether it is worth taking up the job, whether the pay for the job is good enough in relation to the social security that can be obtained at present. We must have the basic security that it pays to work at all times. So, in a way, that little salary would then be given this basic security, and when that level of pay rises enough, that basic security will no longer be available. This would then, of course, replace certain existing aid schemes. I believe that this is the biggest reform of the next government, but, of course, it would be helpful if this social and regional reform were to be brought forward already during this term of government. In two such major reforms, social and regional reform and yet social security reform, it would certainly be a very big challenge for the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u301	Mr President! I thought I'd take another look at this elderly care. I've done my job, 35 years, at the health center, and I've seen where this service housing boom is going. It started about 25 years ago, and during this time, between 25 and 35 years, service housing has grown into huge institutions. There are long hallways on many floors. For grandmas and grandpas, there are nice rooms with their own furniture and their own rumbled walls but no one else.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u304	Madam President! As a member of the coeliac group, I thought I'd take a stand on her coeliac disease. I would have asked the Minister now that the celiac allowance has been abolished during this term of government. It has raised a great deal of concern and evil in various parts of Finland. We know that celiac disease is a disease that cannot be influenced by a person and that, on the one hand, it requires zero tolerance in the diet and that these people have no choice. Now we have the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court that, in the case of supplementary income support, this amount relating to the coeliac allowance should be taken into account. But it has not been decided in the case of basic income. Now I would ask you: because celiac disease is a disease for which there is no treatment other than a strict, unconditional diet, so why is this not taken into account in basic income, but because of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u305	Madam President! Here the Minister has already responded well to the situation of leave. Part of the answer was not answered when I also asked whether 180,000 of this education budget is now sufficient to get qualified leavers on the apprenticeship. The second question relates to which representative The column made a good point, i.e. on this Farmer Care project. We all know that it is extremely important and valuable work and that these project workers have their hands full. But we also have so-called ely projects in those provinces with the same concept, and now this goes to the financing of the Melan Care Farmer project. Is it possible to find the compatibility that this additional allocation for next year will jointly support both of these players on the ground, for example by increasing the number of joint events, opportunities for farmers to engage in social interaction without any particular concern or need, including networking;
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u306	Madam President! Thank you again for the reply. Representative The screamer has already raised an important issue of coeliac disease. I would like to ask again about poverty: Finland is a welfare state in many ways, but poverty still exists, child poverty, pensioner poverty, poverty in all age groups. The bread lines are still long. Many relief organisations receive bread and other food in the form of donations to those in need, but also a large amount of euros is needed for basic operating costs. In the past, EUR 1 million was to be allocated to the operating costs of these charitable organisations, but there is no such important grant now. I would like to ask the Minister: would it be possible to think and evaluate differently? The euro and such assistance needed for basic operating costs is very important to enable these charitable organisations to continue their activities and continue to distribute the necessary food subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u307	Madam President! I do not know whether I understood Minister Mattila's previous speech when you referred to the Kela rides and said that you do not have the power to intervene. I would like you to at least say hello to the Kela, so that no such cases can happen again. When you compete and develop new things and go out at the expense of people to do things, you have to do their jobs and things. Yes, the situation of Kela rides has been disastrous in the sense that if a person goes to the hospital to get cancer treatment, for example, he will have to wait, he will not get through the taxi centre and there will never be a taxi. It's not the driver's fault, it's not his fault that's between the seat and the wheel, because it's not worth it for them to take those rides. Many taxi drivers have also been in contact and said that it is a huge percentage loss of earnings that this reform has caused them. 25-30% was this latest estimate when I spoke to the taxi driver. Listening to a person — yes, you have the opportunity to give a powerful order, if that's what you want —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u308	Then Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u309	Mr President! To the representatives of the government parties I would like to conclude by saying, as if in summary, that no one will dispute the fact that the corrections now made to the budget to the position of the most vulnerable are indeed necessary, but that is so good a comparison that the government has first taken the most deprived and now with a spoon to give back the little one. So far, more than EUR 700 million have been undermined in people's livelihoods, so there is nothing to be done, but it has to be said that these minor adjustments to the next year's budget will be minor. But they all come in handy, I must admit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u310	And now to conclude, I will give a reply to Minister Mattila, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u311	Madam President! Let's start with that last round where there were a lot of questions about this military accident. There is no retroactivity in this government proposal. Retrospectives may always be challenging, but what prevents the Ministry of Defence from working together and working further. Then, Mr Juvonen and Mr Karimäki, on the transport of Kela: yes, I also said that these should and should act 100%. And honestly, I don't have that great command to go out there and tell them to move the car now. We don't have it. But I also believe that this has been done in the best possible way when the law on transport services came into force, when the STM regulation was adopted and then when Kela made its tender. I would like to trust in the Finnish work that Kela will do her best to get these transports in order. We also have an immediate readiness in the ministry, for example, to continue the regulation if required. Then, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, from this diabetes treatment, usually from type 2 diabetes treatment: There is research data, that is, Kela has these research blogs, and they are exactly as required in the committee statement, which means that this must be followed up. And I have no doubt that you have actually received a message about these drug charges. At the same time, we need to take care not only of the costs of type two diabetes but also of the medical care and related expenses of all citizens. This is done through, among other things, a rational drug treatment programme, but on the other hand I am also pleased that we are able to reduce this ownership of drug purchases. In fact, I think that it is very valuable to help people out of unemployment, and this is a long way from the future, for example through occupational pensions. Mr Tanus, this EUR 1 million grant to these organisations, which provide food aid and work for it, was for that equipment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u316	The category of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has therefore been discussed. Let's go to the list of speakers. — Mr Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u317	Mr President! I'm sorry. I'm almost surprised, but we've been waiting so long. It may seem a little weird to jump off the subject, but this is how it is. So let's get back to the abortion conversation. Mr President! Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I personally wish to speak to you today not only as a representative of Parliament, but also as President of the Federation of Women's Organisations, and above all as a woman. The right to one's own body is an unbreakable human right. This right essentially includes sexual and reproductive health rights. The right to safe abortion is the cornerstone of the central focus of women's rights in Finland's foreign policy. The CEDAW Committee requires its Member States to commit themselves to all forms of non-discrimination and prevention against women and girls. According to Article 18 of the recommendation published by the Committee in 2017, the criminalisation of abortion, forced pregnancy and prohibition or lengthening of safe abortion are forms of sexual violence. It is therefore incomprehensible that our Foreign Minister, Timo Soini, has challenged Finland's united line of women's and girls' rights and has damaged our reputation in the world as a defender of human rights. The position of the Foreign Minister is widely known in the international women's movement and is linked to the rise of extremist values, gender equality and women's full rights. It is unreasonable for men who threaten the lives and health of women not to allow women the full right to decide their own lives and their own bodies. Such a policy is anti-female. The pregnancy of minors will end the childhood of girls, and the possibility for young girls to plan their own lives will be restricted. This anti-femaleism is put on life - protecting rhetoric at the same time as thousands of underage girls die of childbirth and illegal abortions. According to the World Health Organization, the World Health Organization, about 25 million unsafe abortions are performed in the world every year. Only one in four abortions is safely performed in countries where abortion is completely banned or allowed only in the event of a health risk. Prohibition of abortion does not reduce the number of abortions. It increases the complications and deaths resulting from the consequences of illegal and unsafe abortions. Sexual and reproductive rights are a key enabler of sustainable development, including according to the UN 2030 Agenda. The undisputed link between prevention methods and the possibility of abortion to the number of children that families want, especially in the poorest countries, must be recognised. Sexual and reproductive rights therefore play a key role in the world's demographic development. The position of the Minister is one of the most responsible in politics. This responsibility must be borne in accordance with the Finnish policy. A coherent and uncompromising policy must be required of the government. It is up to Parliament to ensure that the Government implements the official political line in Finland. I would therefore like to ask, ladies and gentlemen, whether Finland wants to trample on the human rights of women and whether Finland particularly wants to trample on the human rights of the poorest women and girls in the world. I am in favour and the entire RKP Parliamentary Group supports the proposal that Minister Soin's activities do not enjoy Parliament's confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u318	Mr President! This year alone, Foreign Minister Soini has taken part on his business trip to Canada at the opportunity of anti-abortion, praised Argentina's emissions not to legalise abortion and criticised the decision resulting from the Irish referendum to relax the country's extremely strict abortion legislation. One might say that our foreign minister has repeatedly expressed his views on abortion legislation in other countries and has acted against global women's rights. The Foreign Minister has defended himself against legitimate criticism by appealing to freedom of opinion. That is right, the Minister also has freedom of speech and opinion. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also has the responsibility to represent the Government and Finland, especially when it comes to other countries' affairs and their comments. In his position as Minister of Foreign Affairs, he always represents not only himself but also the Finnish State and its official line. Official Finland wants to promote women's and girls' rights, including sexual and reproductive rights and, as part of them, the possibility of safe abortion. The foreign minister's actions have therefore been contrary to Finland's foreign and development policy policy on a number of occasions and must also take responsibility for this — and we are discussing it today. Gender equality has long been an important part of Finland's foreign and development policy. Finland has been a pioneer in promoting women's and girls' rights and gender equality, and the work continues. The key objective of Finland’s development policy is the realisation of human rights. This includes improving the position of women and promoting gender equality. Recently, sexual and reproductive health rights have become a particularly important part of Finland’s development policy. It is incomprehensible that the Finnish Foreign Minister speaks against Finland's long and honorable line. It is particularly incriminating that the foreign minister has taken part in an anti-abortion event on a mission and sees nothing wrong with it. Mr President! The Secretary of State wears his rhetoric to protect life. However, statistically, in countries with very strict abortion laws more abortions are carried out than in countries with more permissive abortion rights. In the 82 countries in the world where abortion law is the most restrictive, the highest number of dangerous abortions are performed. The fight against abortion is therefore not about protecting life, but about restricting women's rights. The ban on abortion does not stop abortions; it simply makes them unsafe. It harms the health and life of women and leads to the death and disability of some 50,000 women each year. The laws prohibiting abortion damage the equality and self-determination of women from their bodies and lives and expose them to cruel and inhumane treatment and loss of health and even life. In addition to gender equality, we are talking about economic equality. In countries where abortions are banned, the wealthy can afford to travel to another country to have an abortion or go to a private clinic. The poor don't have this chance. In Argentina, for example, whose decision not to allow abortion, Soini praised, dangerous abortions die primarily from rural and poor women and girls. Restrictive abortion legislation thus increases inequality and the cycle of poverty. Mr President! In developing countries, as many as 43% of pregnancies are unplanned. This means 89 million unplanned pregnancies every year. Unplanned pregnancies are linked to rapid population growth, increasing poverty and reduced opportunities for women to decide on life choices. Many girls' schoolway ends prematurely with unplanned pregnancy. Sexual rights are therefore also a development issue. Abortion law is part of human rights and women's rights. It's part of the right to control one's own body. However, efforts should be made to reduce the number of unplanned pregnancies and abortions, as an aversion to pregnancy and abortion are often a heavy issue. However, abortions do not stop by banning them, but abortions can be reduced by strengthening the sexual autonomy of women and girls, by increasing sexual education, by providing prevention services for all those who want them, and by protecting women and girls from violence. Dangerous abortions are reduced by securing comprehensive sexual and reproductive health services, including safe abortion services, which are part of their human rights. Mr President! On these grounds, I support Mr Feldt-Ranna's motion of censure on Foreign Minister Soin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u319	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, from South Africa, I came from that export promotion trip a few minutes ago. Once again, it can be said that Finnish clean, safe food and beverages are in demand on the world market. It was also pointed out by that journey. President! I thought that in this presentation I would go over more of what we have done in the form of an increase in next year's budget than in the current year's budget. Let's start with that export promotion. That is where we will allocate an additional EUR 1 million to enable us to hire three people, three sales attachés, to promote exports to the most important markets in the world. Similarly, there will be EUR 1 million in additional funding for export promotion training, which has now begun this year, because we also have a huge need for training in the area of export promotion. President! In its budget line, the government decided on an additional contribution of around EUR 85 million in relation to the very difficult profitability situation currently prevailing in Finnish agriculture. It has been so for a long time, and now, after these two very difficult years of harvest, it has only grown worse, and it was therefore necessary to allocate funds to this difficult situation and to overcome it. It is clear that this investment seems big, but when it is distributed per space, the amount of money is not really large. Even this year, when the damage is known to be worth hundreds of millions, this is only a necessary and present - day crisis relief. Long-term profitability cannot be safeguarded under any circumstances, but consists only of market measures. This additional effort will be divided between next year's budget and this year's last additional budget. Why are these two mechanisms used? It is because we now want to allocate those additional appropriations as well as possible, both between production lines and regions, and also to ensure that payments are made as quickly as possible. That is why two elements have been chosen, with which this money will now be distributed. Of course, there is also a great deal to be done about the kind of measures the European Union is calling for. Some of these measures are similar to the fact that they also require the approval of the Union, but we have left the government with such an exceptional situation in several other Member States of the European Union that we are now using the famous flexibility that the Commission and the Commissioner have also spoken about, and I believe that they will be achieved. Contacts with the Commission and other Member States are very close on this issue, and I therefore dare to be optimistic about this. In other words, there are several elements of what this package is made up of, more procedures of which this is made up, and we will also be able to mobilise the money as quickly as possible. The farms need this money. President! Then, in addition to those, which I have already listed, we are also giving village shops an additional EUR 1 million as multi-service centres to carry out pilot projects. We all know that the village stores have been severely reduced, even though they are service points that we also need in Finland. The budget also includes an appropriation for the work of the Food Agency, and when the new Food Market Commissioner starts at the beginning of the year, the money has also been allocated to the office to be set up and to his salary. Then, on the side of the natural resource economy, we will invest more than EUR 1 million in promoting bioeconomy-related innovations. Similarly, we target an additional EUR 300000 to monitor the wolf population in Western Finland, because we hope that we will have as many wolf hordes as possible on the collar, so that monitoring is continuous and we know where they are moving, so that we will be able to combat dog damage in this way. Hunting becomes another thing. There young people's hunting activities are supported, which was also the will of Parliament to halve the game management fee for under 18-year-olds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u322	Let us open the debate on the debatable part, and I would ask those Members who wish to speak to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u323	Madam President! Now it seems that in addition to the deep centre, Finland as a whole is at last on the issue of securing Finnish food production and is concerned that the primary producer will also receive a fair share of the food market. That is why it is really great that food market legislation is now also going to do something about this, and in this draft budget the Food Market Commissioner is also getting the money. In addition, it is very important that we make those export efforts mentioned by the Minister, because I believe that the export market will still be dominated by the absence of antibiotics and food safety when we work on long-term work and brand our excellent products. With regard to that crisis package, have you negotiated with the Ministry of Finance that the refund of energy tax would work a little better than in the previous round?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u324	Mr President! The Minister has just mentioned these actions relating to wolves, and I do attach great importance to them. For example, we in North Karelia no longer have deer to hunt in Ilomants and Lieksa this autumn, and the biggest culprit is the wolf. But another thing, which is also excellent, is this halving of the game-keeping fee for young hunters. The Government proposes that the game management fee for young, under 18-year-old hunters be halved from the beginning of next year. This is an excellent reception for young hunters. This action gives a positive signal about the consideration of young people in a good hobby. In hunting clubs, the crowd is going to crash, and there is definitely a need for more young hunters, and this is certainly one of the ways in which this will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u325	Mr President, Minister! I believe that there is a unanimous position in the Finnish Parliament that farmers should be helped during this crisis. It is good that the government has taken action, and the Social Democrats support it. All these additions, which the Minister has put forward, are in order. But one who has been in the Agriculture Section throughout this parliamentary term is discretionary subsidies for organisations. Once again, they're going to be cut, and then they're going back to Division. We expressed quite strongly that this cannot be done. I would like to ask the Minister: what will be done again, for the fourth time? I know that this has been the case before your ministerial term, but when Minister Leppää is very much appreciated across party boundaries and he is a top minister, how did it happen again that, now that the 4H and these advisory organisations have been cut off from the state and should be reinstated by the Agriculture Section?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u326	Madam President! The Minister must be grateful for the fine management of this agricultural crisis package and for the fact that it did not become an auction in public, which could have come in the hands of some incompetent ministers during this election year. It is a great thing to find a common note, namely that our own food production is part of the security policy, and it is so valuable that it is also taken care of together. I also appreciate Mrs Wallin's statement that the SDP supports this. That's a great thing. Another thing, a little thing in itself, or two little things: First of all, it is great that the Minister mentioned this about the Caretaker farmer, 3 million. They do not come from a level of three Ms, but they are very important in this situation. Finally, I would ask the Minister to assess where the common agricultural policy of the European Union is going, and will you open up some of these aid negotiations, that what is going on — pillar one, pillar two — because it is important that we in Parliament are aware of the direction in which these are going?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u327	Madam President! The Minister should be grateful for the fact that, in a budget debate with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, you have found a good package of drought crises, and it has much more impact than just these millions of euros, which are then distributed differently to different farms. There are some really big influences that will affect you for a long time, and it is also important to take them into account. I would like to ask one more specific question, which is still a little less important in the debate: What is the timetable for the government's proposal on state guarantee loans? Will it be such an element that farmers will be able to finance their inputs next spring, while the new harvest is about to begin? And second, a little more global, bigger thing: Climate change is a fact, we see it all the time, and our crop damage will be at the mercy of extreme conditions in the future. This thinking also needs to be considered from the point of view that these conditions will be more severe in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u328	Madam Speaker! Climate change and extreme weather phenomena are also very visible in Finland, and of course it is right to help and support those who are in difficulty in the agricultural sector now. At the same time, however, long-term system-level changes are urgently needed in order to achieve sustainable and profitable agriculture, and that change is therefore needed at both EU and national level. Our food production cannot be based on one crisis and another crisis package. There have now been many of these years, and that is why I am calling for these long-term structural changes. However, I would like to ask about this crisis package, when there is a EUR 20 million pot for energy tax refunds raised in 2018: Are you sure that, among other things, this package pot is now being distributed correctly? Does it go to those who have suffered the most crop damage? I am not at all convinced of that myself,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u329	Madam President! This is beginning to be rather monotonous when one by one praises the minister so that he is not really able to write out of his jiggles. [Laughter] Of course, it must be said that it is particularly important now, after a long period of effort, that we have noticed that we want food to go higher in Finland, which means that we are promoting exports. At least personally, I believe it is particularly important that we are now investing in the export effort, which we in the Left Alliance have also wanted to promote.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u330	Mr President! Agriculture has suffered for several years. There have been three wet years in the north, and now we have one dry year, which means that many farms have had very little buffers. As has been called for here, agriculture needs such longer-term solutions. Those longer-term solutions are certainly not based on crisis packages or similar solutions, because the pot that can be given to farms is extremely small in the end. One key factor is to change the cost structure of agriculture, and this cost structure also includes these land arrangements. Small blocks around the village are causing huge transfer costs, and it is great that more money has now been made for this arrangement. How can this kind of estate arrangement be taken into account in the future for a longer time, so that it would not always be year by year but would really be a multi-year project?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u331	Mr President! In recent years, and especially in the last year, we have heard worrying messages about the growing wolf population, which is causing problems across the country, especially on the west coast. The new wolf stock management plan will focus on setting up regional cooperation groups to teach people how to live with wolves. Looks like there's a lot of wolf experts in the ministry. I'm not one of those people, but I'm saying I know people, and there's a lot of people in Ostrobothnia who are really worried. Minister, we do not need any more wolf collars. Two things are needed: firstly, a larger number of wolves must immediately be overthrown with an exemption. Scaring and expelling wolves to the neighborhood is not going to solve the problem. Secondly, more landfill permits must also be granted for the next hunting season. Otherwise, there are two bigger problems in our hands when puppies born now in the summer start looking for territory.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u332	Mr President! After a tough summer, more and more small farms are shutting down. Let's live in real trouble. Although milk and meat production are not necessarily reduced in the same proportion — with these production facilities, we have started to produce milk and meat in larger units — from the point of view of the reserve and the defence of the country, I see the question of security of supply here. I think that the smaller the units that produce food scattered across the whole territory of the kingdom, the better it will be if it happens that some part of the country may fall under foreign authority. My question to the Minister is this: has the government considered this closure of the premises and seen it as a risk, precisely from the point of view of national defence, in terms of security of supply? It is not as if all production facilities were placed on the territory of the same province and thus there is no risk that production could be jeopardised in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u333	Mr President! It is therefore clear that everyone is prepared to support agriculture in its crisis. But it is not a very long time since we went through this crop damage issue in this same Chamber, was it at the end of March, early April? I would remind you that it was said at the time that this compensation for crop damage is a unique thing with this increase in the refund of energy tax. At that time, we may have had the courage to suspect that it will not be the last time — unfortunately. Now it is true that this compensation for the increased use of dryer fuel oil was justified, although the pick-up dryers, which were, however, one-fifth, were not. But now that we are dealing with the opposite problem, is there any reason for this, as it were, to refund the energy tax on fuel oil, or is this only for practical reasons which I understand?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u334	Mr President! The Sipilä Government has a good government programme and is being implemented by an excellent minister. At the start of the government's economic and employment objectives, many were suspected. Now we have found that most of the government's ambitious objectives have either been achieved or are in the process of being realised, or at least on schedule. The Government Programme is also good for bioeconomy, agriculture and forestry. In recent years, the potential of bioeconomy, agriculture and forestry has been seen, invested in them, and the growth of the bioeconomy has played a role in turning the Finnish economy into a growth path.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u335	Well, this was, of course, a very significant praise for the bioeconomy tip project, but let us at least remember in the Minutes that significant bioeconomy investments had been made for a long time before the government launched its bioeconomy projects, and that is not all quite as brilliant as the representative has just pointed out. So the biggest investment in the Finnish forest industry, EUR 1.4 billion for Äänekoski, was carried out completely independently of this government's bioeconomy programme. And, in fact, the previous government's investments of more than EUR 130 million, and yet uncertain investment in road projects and other infrastructure, may have contributed to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u336	Mr President! I share the thanks that have been expressed here to the Minister. And I would like to say that today's poor situation with regard to the profitability of the agricultural industry, as Mr Pylväs has rightly said, is the result of several years of development. And now, indeed, the buffers have been eaten and we are in a situation where there must be ways, as the government is now proposing, to go on and lay hard under the feet — hopefully the next harvest year will be different. Here in Parliament there is a food market law, it offers opportunities. Mr Karhinen then does his own work. But what I would like to pay particular attention to now is the 13th of Katainen's government. Decision of 9 September 2013 on the transfer of research funds from research institutes to the Academy of Finland. In the future, agriculture research will need its own funding and decision-making powers for the Ministry, and the Advisory Board will then be there to guide what can be done precisely to bring technology, digitalisation and the like into the agricultural industry in order to increase profitability.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u338	Madam President! Even such an Espoo cityman can support Finnish viable agriculture, so strong is Finland's support for vibrant agriculture. However, I am concerned about the same issues raised here by the representatives of the centre about this longer run on this issue. It is now worth considering the impact that it would have if several — or already — producers of meat and farmers in Finland had to put their whistles in a bag. It is unlikely that production will return to the same level if this happens, and partly unfortunately it has happened. Fortunately, this crisis support package was adopted as an additional budget. One thing I would like to raise to the Minister is the way in which agricultural aid is distributed. Of course, national agricultural aid is important, and blue people would like to increase its share — less aid from the EU, more from the country of origin. When you pay the EU the euro, at the moment you can get only part of it back to Finland. How does the Minister feel about bringing the situation into place in the future, for example during the next term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u339	Mr President! Climate change and the loss of biodiversity, the sixth wave of extinction, are major critical problems today, and in both of these the forest is quite key. On the other hand, when the forest grows, carbon is bound by it, but the forest is also a significant carbon reserve. That is why the drastic increase in fellings is a problem, because in the next few years coal will be released as stocks fall. Forests are also an extremely important ecosystem for biodiversity, because most of Finland's endangered species live in forests. Therefore, this increase in Metsähallitus's performance target is worrying here, as is the fact that Metso funds are still not even half as much as they were when this government started. Another concern about diversity is migratory fish. It is great that the government had a leading project in this respect, but this key project did not solve the issue, and that is why:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u340	Mr President! In many discussions with farmers this autumn, too, it has become clear that they are very pleased that today's Finland has such a positive attitude towards agriculture, a Finnish farmer is appreciated. But of course they also say that somehow that positive appreciation should be reflected in the profitability there. We all know what problems there are at present with the profitability of Finnish agriculture. Of course, the future of Finnish agriculture depends on the way young farmers see the profitability of this sector and believe that they trust this sector. Once again, I ask this traditional question: Minister, what is your message to these young people who are thinking of becoming farmers?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u341	Madam President! There was a debate just now about the problems of the forest industry and the well-being that they now have, that is, how well they are doing. We must remember that the problems of the Finnish forest industry were largely in the technological development it did. I myself come from a place of paper, and I have seen the change that has taken place there in time. By then, before these crises, the Finnish forest industry thought about how fast the bike spins and how fast the puck spins and how wide the paper becomes and how many kilometres it can be made at once. In a way, the utilisation and development of operations remained just to calculate how quickly the paper comes out. At that point, these kinds of production developments were ignored completely. In my opinion, we have now been on a smarter path and made progress. And those decisions have been made considerably before this government, all of them. That's where the good results came from. As far as agriculture and the profitability of agriculture are concerned, it was surprising to hear one of the agricultural advisers tell us that he must now calculate how much he needs to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u342	Madam President! Thank you, too, to the Minister. You have put your whole personality in front of Finnish food and Finnish farmers. In particular, I would like to thank you and the whole government for the efforts they have made on exports. But we could do much more in our own country. Food procurement in the public sector is well over EUR 300 million. In my own province of North Savo, we calculated for nine food groups how different cities and municipalities use domestic and imported goods: 20 per cent were imported to Kuopio, 1 per cent to my municipality Kiuruvesi. Local food in Kuopio was used by 10 per cent, nearly 60 per cent in Kiuruvesi. We have not entirely succeeded in getting this message to our own municipalities, that what we do as municipal decision-makers has enormous regional economic significance and importance for Finnish food production. What have you thought about doing more and better?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u343	Mr President! It is important to take care of domestic food production, and the crisis package for agriculture must be well understood, although it must be targeted at those who really need it. Otherwise, agriculture must be adapted to the changing climate and also to the protection of the Baltic Sea. We need more protein-rich vegetables, but, on the other hand, last summer the gamma night took a large part of the beef bean crop. You have a major challenge ahead of you to adapt agriculture so that it adapts to the future and we can take care of food supply. With regard to hiking fish, I would say that when you now finished the top project, the situation is really hopeless, because initially there was no new money, but first the money was cut and then you came up with a new top project. The vitality of migratory fish certainly needs to be taken care of, and the goal of a larger project for the forthcoming government term remains a big one, so that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u344	Madam President! It is truly amazing that the Greens continue to spread this same, very limited truth about the state of our forests. Even climate guru, the Secretary-General of the WMO, also appreciated by the Greens, says in his public statement that he has praised the management and logging of Finland's forests very openly in international fora, and I am very surprised that the truth is not avoided by you, the Greens. It is incomprehensible that although the official measurements and forecasts of the Finnish Forest Research Institute are that when forests are well managed, Finland’s potential forest growth can rise to 150 million mots a year — it is the absolute maximum that can be recovered from this area — you are constantly spreading false information. Don't you have any responsibility for what you're saying?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u345	Madam President! This is not a fight for opinion, but we have, among other things, called on the most recent assessments from the BIOS research unit, which has therefore prepared an assessment of Finland's country report on emissions to the UN. We have also appealed to the Finnish Climate Panel's statement, which states that the decline in carbon sinks can continue for decades to come, at worst until the end of the century. And we have appealed to the Government's own climate and energy strategy impact assessment, according to which carbon sinks will decrease so much from the impact of the strategy that all other emission reduction measures will be eliminated at least until 2030. That it is not the statements of any opinion club, but the statements of our country and internationally respected researchers. We are quite rightly concerned about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u346	Mr President! The Minister, of course, deserves to be commended for the fact that, in this situation, agriculture receives a little crisis support. But it is all the more important that the long-term sustainability of the crisis in agriculture can be improved. Finland’s agriculture is becoming increasingly important even on a European scale, as production conditions in southern Europe continue to deteriorate. The hopes are attached to the report of Mount Counsellor Reijo Karhinen, which we are waiting for. He is known as an economic and financial expert, but perhaps not so much as an expert on agriculture. I would like to ask the Minister if he is given all the support he can so that he can take account of all aspects of social policy in this task and make his assessment and observations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u347	Mr President! Forest policy has been very important to Finland, and it has been particularly important that we have kept the decision-making process in our own hands. I understand the desire to marry climate policy and forestry policy and to make decisions that will save the world. But I ask the Minister: what do you think, has Finnish forestry policy made sense? Over the course of a century, the number of forest trees has almost doubled. The same thing has grown, it has almost doubled. It's at least 110 million cubic metres a year. We know that when we make gaps, seedlings with very different growth potential are used there, processed, which means that in the future growth will increase and carbon sequestration will increase. I do not know about these opinion clubs, but has this successful history of Finland been taken into account? And what about it, Minister? Shall we continue along the same lines?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u348	Madam President! Of course, as a close food friend and big consumer, I am concerned that Finnish food will succeed. I was told that the minister had made a marketing trip down there a little below the equator. Can you thus use the minister’s artist name Crocodile Dundee because he enjoyed local food there? I personally feel that this crisis package, which was shown to farmers, was necessary. As has been heard here, it receives broad support. As far as I am concerned, I am concerned about this issue of security of supply, when a number of newspaper articles have written in this way that food provision for domestic agriculture is not necessary for security of supply. What does the Minister think? Am I worried about the right thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u349	Madam President! With the exception of the Greens, there is perhaps a very unanimous view in this Chamber that forests play a very important role in the Finnish economy and have been well managed in recent years. Parliament has also clearly set out to support forest management through the Kemera subsidies. They have played a very important role. Forest car roads have also been very much taken into account. It is important in a situation where today the wood market is doing just fine. At least I have enjoyed those grubbing-up jobs during the summer and, for my part, I have played my part in the fact that the forests will be in better shape in the future, and that is what we should do. I ask the Minister: what is the rate of utilisation of the Kemera subsidies, and it is true that money will continue to be found in the budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u350	I will take a few speeches on this, and then the Minister will be able to prepare to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u351	The Section for Agriculture of the Committee on Finance visited Northern Ostrobothnia at the end of August — here are Korhonen and Eestilä, who were on the way — a very good and educational trip. We were the last target of such a Viskaal farm, which is a very important farm in the region and whose future plans are very high: half a hectare yard and then 1200 cattle. Carbon-neutral meat is produced in that area because there will be no connection. 100 hectares of forest have been cut in the middle of the wilderness, there were earth moving machines running, and it was a bio-plant. And now, even though this farm already has an environmental permit, the authorities have decided that this bio-installation must also apply for an environmental permit, even though it improves the environmental conditions of its farm. We promised when we left, we'd bring this up. I'm going to ask the minister: How can it be that when the farm has an environmental permit and the carbon neutrality situation improves there, then you have to reapply?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u352	Mr President! With reference to the previous speeches, it is true that: Äänekoski's major investment was already in preparation during this government and during the previous period notes were made for it. However, it has now been completed, as many other projects have been or are under way. In addition to this excellent project by Äänekoski, thousands of places for work and enterprise have been created in the forest sector, which is a great thing. It would therefore be wonderful if we could give greater commendation to the government's policy, which has contributed to laying the foundations for investment, strengthening the conditions for entrepreneurship and giving confidence and certainty to investors and to those who plan to invest. In addition to the technical developments mentioned by Mr Sem, it is not appropriate to forget that the current growth of the forest sector has been based on good overgenerational management of forests owned by Finns, which has made it possible to double growth and improve the quality of harvested wood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u353	Madam President! A little bit of those wolves. I will give you an example of Central Finland. There was this sort of Malla wolf, which was a pawn wolf, and the net allowed to follow where it went. We visited the Natural Resources Centre, and there was an announcement that there was no wolf in Central Finland, although at the same time it was allowed to be watched online. Whether this malla wolf was in Kinnula or not, it must have gone to wolf heaven or something. At the same time, the kioskkeeper was robbed four times in Kinnula — the police did not show up — but when the Malla Wolf disappeared, they did come with helicopters and everyone to find where the wolf went. So this policy of the Greens is such that we are more concerned about these booths and wolves than about people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u354	Mr President! I understand that nothing has been said about organic production in this class. However, organic farming continues to grow: two years ago, about 9.9 per cent of the arable land was in organic farming, and last year it was 11.4. For example, in North Karelia, my province, organic production is about 27% at the moment. I am dealing quite a lot with these organic producers and they are very concerned that there is an indestructible amount of these checks, which are part of organic production. One producer this week sent me a bill to show. The inspector had visited to see their fields, and for an hour and a half, the decrease was EUR 457. Minister, is there any change to such controls, mainly as a result?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u355	Mr President! I promise not to talk about the wolf this time, I think my earlier message got through. On the other hand, I would like to express my thanks for the government's forestry policy. I am a little confused about these different statistical data and references to different studies. The Greens are concerned that we are now taking too large an exit. I looked at Luke’s website, and I would like to ask the minister if Luke’s website contains the right information when it says: ‘After the beginning of the 1970’s, the annual growth rate was clearly higher than the removal rate. The latest measured growth is 109.9 million cubic metres per year, with the annual removal peaking at 82 million cubic metres in 2015.’ As I recall, the Greens were part of the time in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u356	Madam President! Perhaps we should go to a little larger spheres and say that so far mankind has managed to halt only one global environmental disaster,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u359	Mr President! Mr Östman said that talking about wolves is enough, but if you will allow me, I am still a little confused about this soup. On 21 June 2017, Aamulehti published an article entitled ‘Crazy Job’ —Purposemen were paid compensation of more than 150,000 euro each year for damage:‘A minimum of EUR40000 has been paid each year13-25persons in a reindeer management This moneyis most clearly paid under such aspecificprinciple,in accordance with the Lex I myself have made it clear that the good government is now interfering with this Lex Halla activity and is dismantling this Lex Halla, which makes it possible to use the money for fraud in the north also here in the south, where it has unfortunately been cut down. Minister, is that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u360	Then Mr Myllykoski, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u361	Madam President! What is pleasant is that, in fact, the views — those that I myself have raised — were that farmers should now be given opportunities. The question has already been asked how this system of state guarantees will work, and I think it is the right one. A very low-interest loan will enable those operators who will see the future in order for us to be able to practise agriculture. It's the hand extension that needs to be given. With regard to the criticisms which have come here since energy taxation: I think it is reasonable to ask in this situation that if the dryer does not spin so much this year, then is that the right criterion? I understand that these production costs will not be reduced, except perhaps with regard to drying, everything else will remain as costs. It is a pan-European cereals price
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u362	And then the reply, Minister Leppä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u363	Madam President! Was it now 50 minutes when there were quite a few of these questions? [The President : There was too much!] Mr President! A lot of good questions and good comments. I don't think I'll be able to answer all of them, but I'll start with what a lot of people have referred to here, with this long-term perspective. That's the worry. It has to do with security of supply, it has to do with the future, it has to do with investment in the future, and it has to do with whether young people want to go into the sector as food producers or not. This is a big, big question, and I am really pleased that the whole Finnish people are very far away, according to measurements 90 percent, behind the fact that their own food will continue to be produced in Finland. Parliament agrees on the side. That is a good starting point. That is also the answer to Mr Korhonen's question. We have all the possibilities and conditions for Finland to be a country for food production to grow in the food economy. And it is the one that drives us forward and drives us forward, also so that young people dare to invest. This is a highly capital-intensive sector. We all know that huge investment is required in order to produce food in a modern and sustainable way. It must be sustainable, whether it is food production or forestry. It's clear. A few more specific questions to answer. Refund of energy tax: It is true that this is not necessarily a modern way of working. However, when these means were passed in such a way as to hit them as well as possible, there had to be more than one alternative. And this was one of the ones we wanted to take with us. It's not just the dryer that eats that energy there, it's a lot of other stuff that eats it. Machines don't move without energy, and that's why they're on board this time. But in the long run, I'm sure this isn't the way. Mr Harakka and all the others who have rightly referred to this, this is not the way, of course, we have to find more sustainable ways together, that is quite clear. At least Mr Kulmala here raised the issue of organic matter. The organic strategy is being reformed, its preparatory work is under way, with particular attention being paid to it. Together, we will do the work to be able to reap the full benefits of that creation too. It is one of the crowns of our food production. Representative for Wallin, associations of state interests: You can't be terribly proud of that approach, let's admit it. As far as the margin of manoeuvre was concerned, we were in a very tight position where we considered it. Yes, they were on our table several times. Of course, at this point, I once again hope, as always, that Parliament will be sympathetic to this issue. It's in the hands of the Parliament. Many people have spoken here about the use of forests. It is clear that the government has chosen its own strategy. That strategy is that we want to make Finland a carbon-neutral country, and our objective is similar to that of Sweden, that is to say, until 2045, and it is so great throughout Europe, and if we do not use our forests, we will never achieve it. We need a circular economy, we need a bioeconomy, we need digitality, we need new technologies, new skills, new products and all these together, otherwise it will not work. The fact that forests have grown and grow better than ever gives us a huge chance, and that logging accumulation is not even close to what forests grow, and even though that carbon stock growth slows down for a while, it does not stop at anything but continues to grow. But that growth is slowing down, its carbon stock is slowing down when we use it. But at the same time we will be able to replace a significant amount of non-renewable resources with the products we receive from the forest. And this equation becomes the endurance that we pursue in very ambitious ways. The State guarantee is very important — it was forgotten from my introductory remarks — it is very important, perhaps the most important specific measure is the State guarantee. It will, hopefully, come into force from the beginning of next year, at least this is the government's plan. We will quickly bring the necessary changes to this Parliament if a legislative change is needed, or if it goes through other changes, they will be done quickly so that this will start at the beginning of next year. This can be used to leverage a significant amount of money on the most inefficient farms. This is very, very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u367	Let us continue the debate for the remaining 5 minutes, and we have received requests to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u368	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your good answers. There was also a large set just now of the way in which that package will really be used in the long term. I would like to ask one more question about that state guarantee: is there now also certainty — when you do not know exactly how much the facilities will apply for this loan — that the state guarantee will not be limited to any extent, but that it will actually be able to bring all the farms in need, with certainty, into the scope of the loan? My second point is this: Significant efforts are being made to promote exports, and we have just heard our greetings from the Minister on the export promotion journey. One of my big concerns is how we can now really ensure that this African swine fever does not fall on the Cape of Finland. Just in the last few days, greetings came again from Belgium, where there are new cases. There is also a considerable need for game management measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u369	Mr President! With regard to this state guarantee: I hope, Minister, that this is done in such a way that the banks do not run these former debts and then get the State to guarantee it, so that in practice it will leak to the banks. Let us now make sure that this does not happen. I do not know if anyone has even had any plans, but at this age they have already learned the importance of this prevention. Then, Minister, it is very pleasant to hear that you are dealing with this predatory policy and wolf policy in such a way that it is possible to respond in some way to people's distress and especially to the plight of their hunters when dogs are lost and they are unable to hunt in dogs. It is their culture, these families and families in a particular region, such as Eastern Finland, have been hunting with dogs from one generation to the next, and somehow they are the owners in my opinion. And it is not worth building such a terrible argument about this now, but in such a rational way we sometimes thinn down the wolves and perhaps even the herds that are so-called gangs — learned dogs to kill and hunt — because the population of Finland and Russia is in no way in danger. Finland is a small periphery, and in Russia
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u370	Mr President! It was good to hear the Minister say this, that now these increases in forest felling mean that carbon stocks are shrinking, [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u371	Madam President! Representative Eestilä was able to catch ice before Mr Myllykoski. It is very important to note that this aid scheme does not become a system of bank laundering. We all know that when someone gets loose, someone takes it for themselves. It is now important to ensure that this is indeed taken away. But I would have asked the Minister in particular that, once the last decisions on crop damage have been made, there has been a lot of criticism since then that this current insurance-based system is not working, and now there is a government action to abolish interest rates and give relief to it: is it possible that this government is still preparing for this? I know that government parties will become such a common fund system,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u372	Madam President! The axe is the best forest manager and carbon sink breeder, that's what I have — that's a good picture when I cut down the forest in time. But from that forest industry: Has it occurred to the Minister that the forestry industry is certainly the best currency importer in this country at the moment, because the forest industry is not like the metal industry or the technology industry, they need imports? It is almost completely self-sufficient, and the money coming from exports, it will be available to all of us. In other words, how will the Minister take account of the fact that investment is being made there, and not, among other things, by means of additional environmental regulations and others?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u373	And then a response will be given to Minister Leppa at the end of this. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u374	Thank you very much, Mr President. The previous round failed to answer one more question: agricultural research funding: I share that concern and I am also concerned about its development. That is why I hope that last season, when the financial structure was changed, so that the Academy of Finland was given more opportunities for allocation of research funds, it will also see the importance that bioeconomy, agriculture, forestry have for our economy and our sustainability and that we are also taking and doing our part in combating climate change – that is extremely important. But then to these few other things, questions: Representative to Hakkarainen on the self-sufficiency of the forest industry: This is the case, in fact, it is the case that the new Äänekoski plant produces energy two and a half times what it uses, i.e. they are heavily self-sufficient. That is precisely what I meant when I said that we should not only see how much we are going to beat, but also how much it will replace other, worse alternatives, such as energy production, or other ones made from fossil raw materials. And then let it be said again: that is, the growth of carbon sinks will decrease — not the carbon sinks will decrease, but the growth of carbon sinks will decrease — as we beat. If we beat him up more. I mean, the government doesn't beat a single punch. It beats the forest industry. Wood construction: Extremely important, it has been promoted through a wide range of measures and will continue to be very strongly promoted in order to make progress. We have a very strong control over concrete, especially in public construction, and that is why all of us, including as municipal decision-makers, can also be here — and I hope we are — as messengers. Then the state guarantee: just as many of you have said here that it must be genuine, that it must not become capitalised, and it was precisely in the construction of this package that we in the government had one important principle and objective, that it should as little as possible become capitalised elsewhere and that the aid package would go directly to the farms in need. This is one of the things they want to take care of, of course. In the fight against African swine fever, we need and will need robust means. We are still strengthening the activities at those borders and at the points of entry. We're making legislation on it. We also impose obligations on ports and airports as well as on all the other places where people come here, now to act even more strongly on this wretched disease. Hunting has been facilitated: it will continue to be facilitated so that we can keep the boar population under control. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u375	Let's move on to the list of speakers. First of all, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u376	Mr President! Now that the minister is still here, I want to tell you about the wolf situation today. Near my home in Ilomants, where children go to school, on the way to school every morning, wolves have been running in it for three weeks. One lady who was in the morning jogging, with her own scream, banished her wolf into the woods. There were two little kids on the way to school. No one knows what would have happened if the lady in question hadn't happened. In conclusion, what has happened over the last three weeks: Now we have just received the wolf’s removal permit. First, it was a banishment. When it happens here in the south that the wolf comes near the settlement, then there is the Air Force, the Army and the Navy, the police and the Rescue Department and all the authorities in traffic. Are not men equal before the law, so that one’s life and health are genuinely safeguarded? Is it really the case that the little person who meets the wolf — although now on the light - traffic route of Varsuaja, which goes to the sports hall — needs to be put at risk? Finland’s big anti-fraud policy has gone completely unimaginable, completely out of hand. And the last estimate of the Natural Resources Agency claims that wolves are only a very small number, that is not half true, there are many, much more wolves. But in any case, if we do not do something about this, I very much hope that my eyes and no one's eyes will have to see that the little child will be torn apart by the wolf. There have been many near-misses. I've talked about it ten times in this house, but it doesn't mean it's moving forward. This is also an issue of human dignity. Which is more important in this world: the human child who walks to school on the school road, or the beast who runs along the same road? And it doesn't seem to bother anyone. I'm very sad about it. Secondly, the matter of the forest. When the Greens have painted the truths in this debate whenever they are in what position, it would be worth the Greens at least to remember that they were in the government of Katainen in time to adopt a national forestry strategy up to 2025. It specifically agreed to increase the use of forests, increase fellings and increase management. This has happened. Well, of course I understand that the Greens defected from this, denied these things ever did, and now they're allowed to spread this kind of alternative truths, which in a few other states are done on quite a large scale. Alternate facts are fashioned there. It seems that this disease has spread to Finland too. Mr President! It is very, very sad that our real potential for one party in this house is constantly flouting and writing their own truths about them and spreading them to people as supposedly truths. For example, the statement I have just read by Petteri Talas on forestry in Finland should describe how the world's top expert in the field tells truths about us, and you are only twisting those figures. It's true that we've had a lot of wooded out. Nevertheless, both the carbon sink and the forest storeroom, the tree warehouse, are growing. They're both growing up all the time. Both of them have doubled since the last war, even though we lost our surface area in the war, the best regions went beyond the border. Nevertheless, we have more forest than ever in the history of Finland's independence, more than twice what we had in our hands after the war. Nevertheless, this situation will not be avoided for you. You just feed people the alternative facts, and then you wonder why they don't understand you. Would it ever be good to face up to the facts? That's what I sincerely hope of you. I wonder, though, that even the information of the Forest Research Institute does not escape you. After all, Finland has the oldest forest research in the world, more than a hundred years old. All the trees are known to be beaten, the fellings are known to be beaten, and you will not be spared either. Then what do you believe? There's nothing I can do about this situation. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that this cultivation of truth... When we talk in this house about how we should treat one another, whether we should start with accepting facts or not. Finally, Mr President, on agriculture. Of course, forestry is a big, important part of agriculture, because about half of the net income of many farms comes from the forestry sector. But now that there is such a general national consensus that the farmer needs a fair portion of the product he produces, the Finnish clean food that travels through many corners of our table, it is hoped now that for agriculture this will be remembered even ten years from now, and that we will not start to do this same twisting of statistics as has happened on that side of the forestry sector. I very much hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u377	Mr President! Minister Soini gave an exemplary speech there a few hours ago. And as the Minister mentioned, climate change is also an opportunity. The Arctic region should be seen in Finland as a new opportunity for our benefit. As the climate warms up, a completely new sea will open up on the northern border of Europe. Climate change requires action from us. We must be prepared for the harmful effects it has brought and, at the same time, work must continue to be done to prevent climate change. Although changes are a threat, global warming also brings new opportunities. We rarely hear about these in this Chamber. There's plenty of people to talk about. I see the opening of the Arctic Ocean as an opportunity. Over the next decades, the northern ice-free sea is a reality that we must take into account. As China and other major powers are already preparing to act in our neighbourhood, Europe must also awaken and prepare for change. Europe’s interest is to build road and rail links in the south-north-northward direction to the other shore. Effective transport connections, and Finland in particular, play a key geographical role in this. We are a northern Member State of Europe and are already planning a rail link to the Arctic Ocean. At the same time, a European network linking the Mediterranean and the Arctic would connect the whole of Europe in the south-north direction. For this to happen, we must convince our European partners of the importance of this project. The Finnish Presidency of the European Union offers us a special opportunity, which we must not lose now. During the Presidency, we can tell others what a united and united Europe offers, for example, to Poles or Italians. Finland's splitting rail link, which would continue until southern Europe, would serve as a real economic start-up cable for us. It would create a flow into the Finnish economy, help our small and medium-sized enterprises to gain a position on the European market. At the same time, we could be the bridgehead in the European and Asian markets. I believe that the Ice Sea railway project must also go through Kajaani and Joensuu to Niirala, from where it will continue through Russia and Kazakhstan as a silk road to China. These routes must already be taken into account in the framework of roads and railways. This is not the case at the moment. It is an excellent thing that the government, under the leadership of Minister Soin, is investing in the Arctic region and also in the Baltic Sea in this draft budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u378	Mr President! The promotion of women's and girls' rights and the promotion of the sexual and reproductive health of girls and women, in particular health, is an important part of Finland's foreign and security policy. The clear point here must be prevention and early help, tackling abuse firmly and protecting girls and women from them. In other words, Finland's strong point, in line with our policy, must be prevention, prevention, prevention against pregnancy, prevention against abuse, prevention against neglect, protection of girls and women from bad things. Thousands and thousands of people who think about abortion and who go through abortion go to evening vigils and other similar occasions, some for decades, some always on the anniversary of abortion, remembering that little child. This is good to know for everyone, including the Attorney General. Why should the Minister of Foreign Affairs not have been entitled to participate in the vigil, where abortions are remembered when women who have aborted are also taking part in such events? Many of these occasions also experience pains with women who have committed abortion for one reason or another. Why would our foreign minister not have the right to do so? Of course it was. And who would actually conclude the official position of the state on the basis of the minister's participation in Vigilian affairs? No one's going to do that. Why was a similar issue not raised when, for example, Minister Stubb waved and spoke strongly in Europe in favour of a gender-neutral marriage law, although the law was then another in Finland? I am truly amazed at the foaming that has taken place in this Chamber today with regard to the activities of Foreign Minister Soin. I give my support to Soin, and I appreciate his frankness. Hopefully, deliberate misunderstanding and unnecessary foaming in this Chamber will stop. There really is no need for mistrust. And I, who am speaking here, have worked with women and girls for more than 30 years defending the rights of women, women of all ages. Abortion is also legalized in Finland, but which one of you thinks and tells your daughters that a few abortions in your life will help your health? Is it not clearly stressed that prevention is absolutely necessary and that if a person commits violence, it is absolutely necessary to report it and to bring the wrongdoers to justice? Is not every effort being made to advise and guide our children, to protect girls and women from all the unpleasant experiences that affect sexual and reproductive health? I think the debate on abortion is distorted. The barricades would do well to bring up something else. Let me illustrate this by example: If someone runs around a big, messy construction site without a pair of shorts, falls, gets nails on his feet but doesn't want to get his feet treated, does not want to clean, does not want an antibiotic for infection, but starts to demand that he wants a foot amputation, and is in the barricades that everyone has the right to have their own body and foot amputation, would this not be considered absurd? You mean everyone has a right to their own body and if they want to have a foot amputation? Who's in favour of something like this? And this is all about the leg, not the living little person. Wouldn't a foot wound be cleaned and treated with an antibiotic if necessary? And above all, would it not be stressed and required not to run around the construction site without protective shoes? And if there was an accident, the necessary treatment should be provided immediately. For amputation, there would be no one on the barricades. Similarly, with a view to improving sexual and reproductive health, there should first be good sexual advice and contraception, and if there is doubt that contraception has failed, then emergency contraception should be used. Time and again, barricades have repeated that every woman has a right to her own body. Yes, the baby’s seeds are not brought to anyone by the wind, but every woman should have the right to know how to work with her body. If the child is not wanted, contraception should be used. The message should be clear. Human rights belong to everyone regardless of age, place of residence and ability to act. Human rights also belong to every woman, including the little girl or boy who lives there in the womb. [The President knocks ] Mr President! Obviously I have to ask for another floor, or can I just go on a little bit?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u381	Ladies and gentlemen, as I remind you yesterday evening, these timetable recommendations for 5 minutes are recommendations which hope each of us will be able to stick to his speech in some way. However, if there is a real need to continue, then that absolute limit is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u382	Mr President! Let us now move from the foreign policy side to internal policy. The budget of the Ministry of the Interior — when I looked at those figures — had made very good decisions. You really have to thank me for that. One of the most important things I have said a lot about myself is that there must be opportunities for this preventive work by the police and it must be possible to do it with the intensity that it will bring us a lot of good results and raise our young people. That EUR 2.5 million increase is welcome. Then the other side, which I thought was very good when I came from that part of Eastern Finland: when it was there and the whole of Lapland and the rest of the sparsely populated area that the police have been reduced to a very large extent, then there has now been such challenging activities for money, which is quite welcome and good. Where's the police from? I think it should be approached in such a way that when this police training has been pushed down too much, perhaps it would be wise to hire the investigators. We have academics, academics, researchers, and they are able to do that work, and the police would be given this supervisory task more. That's the way to take things forward. We have long distances, and then distance demands that there should be more police officers in the area. It is very welcome that this opportunity has been created. Then there are such shortcomings: I myself would have missed them, and I will continue to keep them on the agenda, that is, there should be enough and more money for this study of the grey economy, because it is known that, through the grey economy, we will lose tax revenue. It involves the establishment of this heavy traffic control unit. I particularly miss the fact that it would ensure that a Finnish heavy-duty transport entrepreneur can compete against cabotage when the requirements and measures are equal among traffic. They would check the tachographs, the loads, that the loads were properly tied, that the tyres and brakes would work in the car, that they would be like on top of the last one, that it would not be like this two years ago when there were Latvian trucks, that they were caught without brakes at the customs office when Customs carried out a special inspection. It is also very important for road safety that we should have this kind of control more, and this kind of unit would be needed. Then I am a little disappointed that this increase in the refugee quota was not taken forward. Yes, I would have liked to have seen the 2,500 refugees set off to seek help for those who urgently need it. If you think that there are currently 68.5 million refugees in the world who have fled from war and violence, there will certainly be families that can be taken here and managed to offer a better future. That's all I could have missed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u383	Mr President! The past summer was historically dry and hot. The Baltic Sea is limping in the porridge. The crop was lost. No one can escape the fight against climate change anymore. We don't have a planet B. We must do everything we can, and not less in the climate. Where is the government's promise of a law against coal burning? And there is no end to peat burning, even though it will result in high climate emissions and loss of swamp nature. The Government aims at oversized fellings, which halve the carbon sinks of forests by 2030. It weakens the natural richness and reduces the biota. In addition, according to researchers, all Government climate action will be watered down and emissions will increase. Reductions from education and from the weakest will also continue. This is neither a fair budget nor a budget for the future. The EUR 15 million promised for the protection of the Baltic Sea for next year is important, but more is needed. The agricultural aid scheme must be adapted to the climate and the protection of the Baltic Sea. Environmental aid must be targeted at genuinely effective measures and more protein-rich crops are needed for food production. Biodiversity is shrinking at a frightening rate, but the government has halved the budget for the acquisition of nature reserves. For the fourth year, the Soil Protection Programme has been suspended, although many birds need a swamp environment. Many organisms need decayed wood. This cannot continue. Nature and climate must be at the heart of decisions. The government gives generous tax reductions to motor vehicles, but they do not target ecological biogas cars. Turning a car into a gas truck is an eco-device. Why is it then punished by heavier taxation? Fortunately, Minister Berner promised in the budget debate that these car taxes would have to be returned and reconsidered. In order to combat climate change, transport needs to be better on track. In the province of Uusimaa, daily commuting and school traffic need tracks to the west, east and capital region. A double track is needed for the beach track Karjaa, and its first phase is Espoo's urban track. Local trains are also needed in the direction of Porvoo. The electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track is also an important project for industrial transport and exports. Now the trucks are fluctuating through the city of Hanko, so we have to get the transports on the rails. Unfortunately, the government has not invested in these projects. There will be a lot of work left for the future government. Education is the driver of growth and employment and the best asset for a small country. However, the government does not correct the massive cuts it has made from science, research, universities and vocational schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u388	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! When this government started, the situation was quite different. We had a long period of difficult economic time behind us, and then five goals were set by the current government to put the economy in order: to break the debt-to-GDP ratio, to close the debt-to-GDP ratio between 2020 and 2021, to raise the overall tax rate during this parliamentary term, to raise the employment rate to 72%, and to increase the number of people employed by 110,000. Now the situation is completely different from it was less than four years ago. In fact, economic growth is currently up to about 3%. I think we are at the top of the cycle, because the latest estimates show that next year's economic growth would slow down slightly, to around 2%, and then, in 2020 and beyond, would remain on such a slightly more permanent level of low growth, to around 1.5%. The growth has therefore been exceptionally strong since 2016. And now that we look at these goals that were set in the spring of 2015, it can be said that more than 110,000 people are employed. It has been achieved. The employment rate goes to 72% this year, and the government parties have already stated quite unanimously that we need to look ahead and towards the 75% employment rate, a general Nordic level, and it will certainly also be shared with the opposition parties that it must be the goal of next season, and we are already working in the forefront there. According to estimates next year, unemployment will fall by less than 7% and public finances will be stabilised. The budget should be in balance by 2020. And public finances have grown by up to 6 billion. In fact, we are currently fulfilling all the criteria of Emu. This budget for next year, which we have been discussing this week, will increase social justice, will address our country's lack of skills, the problem of tens of thousands of job vacancies, but at the same time there will be many unemployed, that is to say that their skills will be met. This budget speeds up employment and improves safety and also supports Finnish food production. We are currently facing challenges because the economy, despite good growth, is not visible to everyone, which means that unemployment has not fallen in the way it would have expected economic growth to do. At the moment, it is not the case that the skills of many unemployed people, such as IT skills, are in line with today's requirements. This is why efforts are being made to provide further training and retraining. In fact, the biggest spending limits are directed towards research and development. It was important for research and development to be revalued. I mentioned training for the unemployed. As a big issue, the equal pay for early childhood education is about 10 million, since early childhood education is the most impressive and can reduce group sizes and increase staff. The implementation of upper secondary school will be strengthened by 10 million and the implementation of vocational school reform will be increased by 15 million euros next year. In fact, the promotion of equality in education is also very important. For the first time, a secondary material supplement of approximately EUR 600 per year will be introduced. It is an important help in ensuring that secondary education is not caught for money. A fine decision has been made today: language teaching will begin in the first grade. Finally, Mr President, I would like to express my thanks for the efforts made to safeguard Finnish food production, as well as the cleanliness of the Baltic Sea and neighbouring waters. It is also great that inequality is reduced by increasing sickness, parental care, rehabilitation and special care allowance by EUR 80 per month. And I cannot help but conclude that one of the finest solutions of this budget is that all the veterans of our Finnish wars are brought to the same line as the ones that have so far been the only ones in the war. The number of police officers will also be increased and the Defence Forces will also be invested. This is a good move towards a new year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u389	Mr President! I did not have time to speak at the Department of Social Affairs and Health's section of the debate, so I would like to raise one point under the heading of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Many thanks have been made here today for the additional funding that has been included in the draft budget for the 'Retail on Farmer' project. I agree with the thanks: the project is very important. It has worked well, as has similar regional projects funded by ely. In other words, action to help farmers in the worst situations to find solutions to their plight — whether economic, health or related to a relationship or a change in their livelihood — is very important. It is important that there are objective people who can be trusted and who have the task of using their skills to find solutions together with those who help. The only negative thing is that I fear that their need and demand for services will increase exponentially over the coming year, despite the efforts made by the Minister and Parliament to improve the profitability of agriculture and the prospects for the future, including through this budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u390	Mr President! Minister Virolainen spoke well about development cooperation. We need to invest in it. During this period, the Government cut EUR 300 million from development cooperation. This trend has been in sharp contrast with Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development and its funding objective. In recent years, it has been all the more important that funding is targeted at the right targets and projects. I have been a representative of our party during this term of government in the Development Policy Committee and at the same time have been able to familiarise myself with our development goals in Nepal, among others. Nepal is Finland’s second most important eight development cooperation projects. Its so-called country programme has three main objectives: to improve health through clean water and sanitation, to guarantee quality education for all, and to strengthen women and the position of those who are discriminated against. Finland’s development cooperation in Nepal has a very good reputation and the trust of the recipients. In the western part of the country, some 30-40% of the economies continue to report food shortages, and as many as 40% of women report that they do not have any school education, and one third cannot read at all, not to mention girls. Child marriages and economic barriers are among the biggest obstacles to schooling in Nepal. In accordance with the Government Programme, Finland has been active in Nepal, in particular in favour of the sexual and reproductive health and rights of women and girls, and this work must be continued. I believe that real change will come from women and girls and from improving their conditions. Gender equality is a prerequisite for sustainable development, and Finland must stress this in all its activities. The main objectives and principles of development policy, such as promoting equality, must be established at a more permanent level. Development policy should be based on a long-term perspective, because a programme that changes from government to government does not serve long-term objectives and therefore does not provide sufficient guidance to achieve them. Consistency, quality, continuity, flexibility and the ability to take into account different operating environments are key to the whole operation. At the heart of development cooperation must be to support the poorest and oppressed people in a holistic way. Finland's development policy and cooperation need to be changed as necessary to better promote gender equality and to strengthen more effectively the rights and status of women and girls, as agreed in the Government Programme. Mr President! Development cooperation must focus on effectiveness. You can't develop what you can't measure. Financial investments will be strongly targeted at climate action in the future, because gift-based assistance is not in any way sufficient to meet the needs. Private capital is also needed. The root causes of refugeeism must be addressed, inter alia, through development cooperation and crisis management, in particular Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria from the Middle East and the Horn of Africa, Somalia and Ethiopia. The financing of development aid in each country of destination must continue to be closely monitored to ensure that there is no abuse. Mr President! Developing countries, particularly in Africa, need pure energy, investment in agricultural productivity, banking services, sanitation and in general hundreds of millions of decent jobs — everything that has been taken for granted in developed countries. In Africa, for example, there are still 900 million people without electricity and more than 100 million people enter the labour market every year. Investment is also very busy due to climate change. From the climate point of view, it is crucial how developing countries produce their energy and how, for example, African forests can be protected from the rapidly advancing deforestation. Development funders such as Finnfund play a key role. Finnfund has done a lot to ensure that the poorest people, especially women, can access ordinary banking services, set up a bank account, receive and transfer money, get small loans, even insurance. Such services are of enormous importance, especially for small farmers and women, who have not had the opportunity to obtain affordable loans for seeds or tools or any kind of insurance against loss. I see the government's contribution to development cooperation as a welcome return to what has been cut in the past. Congressman Tanus gave an excellent speech some time ago about abortions. I myself was in Greenland at the Nordic Council meeting, and it became clear that, for example, Little more than 900 children are born in nuuks a year, but abortions are far more frequent. There's something wrong, I say.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u391	Mr President! There have been a lot of speeches in this Chamber in favour of improving employment and falling unemployment, and I too am delighted with those figures, but I would like us to go a little deeper inside those figures so that we do not, as it were, fail ourselves in this development, because if we think about the functioning of government policy, then the prospect of growth waning in the future is a worrying feature. And one factor, only one factor there in the background, is certainly how we have a skilled workforce available. If we look at the rapid structural change that is in this society, we should be better able to meet the skills needs that are constantly changing. We had a debate during Question Time on what has happened in vocational education and training. If we look at the raw economic figures in the budget, then the cut of 200 million in vocational education — where we have the most interruptions, where we have a lot of students who need special support, where the hours of local education begin to decline to almost zero — is a very big risk for Finland's future growth. And growth is essential because it will enable us to generate jobs. Another essential issue that should be assessed is what employment rates today include. At the beginning of the year, we came across a reduction in hours worked, even though the number of unemployed people had fallen and the employment rate had improved. Fortunately, the results of this second quarter are better from this point of view. In other words, it tells us that more of these jobs are actually being done, and not just that some structural change is taking place in our statistics as a result of changes in working life. But if we think that today's employment rate is as good as the value of a person who works well-paid full-time, lives without any social transfers, and a person who may have an hour a month's work, then someone between the two things is not in common measure. And what worries me is the increase in income support expenditure on the budget. Consider what has happened in our employment. It is often said in this Chamber that employment is the best social security. I have often said that myself, but I am beginning to think that this claim is old-fashioned because employment is far from always the best social protection. For example, in half of families with children under the low income threshold, one parent works and still lives in poverty and is still below the low income threshold. And that is because of the changes and the division that has taken place in our working life. But what is most worrying to me is that although employment figures — macro figures — have gone as far as the budget book shows, at the same time the budget says that next year we will have to spend more money on income support than this year. There's something wrong with this equation, and it should be analyzed. Who are the people who, in spite of work, tend to become dependent on income support? How could it be prevented? For if a person has to apply for income support in addition to income from work, it eats up the value of the work. And it also eats up the incentive that exists in working life. The second thing I would like to say is this so-called trial of municipalities, which has already been mentioned quite a lot. We are in a situation where the Minister's tenacity is driving his own reform in relation to the regional reform process is beginning to turn into a dangerous stubbornness. As trials in municipalities are running out, this means that they will no longer be able to take on new unemployed people in difficult situations, despite the good results in different parts of Finland. And if we go back to the old legal state that we have, then the resources of the labour administration cut at the bottom. There is nowhere near the same resource to respond to the dismantling of long-term unemployment as before, but there is a worse resource. And if we think that there is pilot legislation in this house, which in fact is permanent legislation which is very far from privatising our public employment services, it is currently stuck in the Constitutional Committee. And we know that there are social issues in the Constitutional Committee, there are intelligence law issues, there are a lot of big things in the Constitutional Committee that the government parties also want to pre-empt during this parliamentary term and take them forward. I can't quite believe that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow a statement from the pilot is coming out of there, especially since that law is very problematic from the constitutional point of view. Big, fatal changes are being made, for example, to what will be the role of the authorities of the future and what will be done by private companies, such changes as the fact that things that have previously been considered unconstitutional are now suddenly considered to be constitutional. For example, since until now it has been felt that even municipalities could not access all the information of the unemployed, private companies could now have access to it on the basis of this pilot law. I can't believe it's a big deal in the Constitutional Committee. And if that law does not come into being, then we will have a long break in dismantling structural unemployment. Mr President! The third point is very brief. The government has rightly and respectfully increased the possibility of self-training for the unemployed. This is what I'm hating. I think it's a great thing. At the same time, however, there has been a strong downward trend in labour market training for those unemployed who do not have access to self-training. This is one of the factors behind a skilled labour shortage, and I would like to see this seen. The budget has small investments on this side, but in relation to the cuts they are small when the bottom is much bigger. It is, however, the instrument by which the unemployed are specifically trained. Those who are more confident and willing to train themselves will go to self-training, but we would also need training for those who are not always going there with such enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u392	Mr President! Just to begin with, a little bit back to that debate, which was part of the “three M’s ” part. I wish that even now the government would be able to align itself with this decision that... The harvest compensation system was reformed so that it became insurance-based, and now the government reacted in such a way that the taxes on crop damage payments were abolished. Well, it's a little hand extension, and it's happening here fast, but now I really need to think about it. We know that in this Parliament there is a unified view between opposition and government parties that the transition to the insurance system in the event of crop damage was not the right solution, but that there is now a need for different fund arrangements, where producers, the state, perhaps some regional actors are involved in building up the fund where it is possible to react more locally and quickly to crop damage than if this unworkable insurance system then receives support through taxation. We in the Left Alliance want a sustainable tax reform for this sector too. And there are also opportunities for food that we can do, because agriculture has a major impact on biodiversity and climate change. In an individual’s everyday life, food choices are one of the most impressive ways to reduce your own ecological footprint. However, environmental responsibility must not be left to individual choices, but the entire food system must be substantially corrected. One such general change of thinking: We have had a month, two then experienced how the Minister of Defense was very upset about vegetarian food when it came. Somehow when you talk about vegetarian food and the fact that you want to promote it in society, it comes with this kind of parasol on top. However, I would like to tell you that those who produce vegetarian food, those farmers, are serious about this, they are not fools. Or even these breeding chains in this same debate are being underestimated in such a way that they are hoarse. This is business activity, which is more sustainable, and I would say that this is just as great a potential for the producer as meat. I do eat meat, but I would like to tell you this, that we should not have a visionary and attitudeal effect on the fact that some production sector is in an unequal position in the social debate with traditional food production. That whole production chain deserves its own appreciation, and in this respect we are also able to promote things. It is quite clear that soil soils need to be more muddy, that cultivation forms can be found in collaboration between scientists and producers. In other words, new methods must be sought so that we can continue to develop and improve the country's productivity, but that means that its country must be adaptable and be able to produce good food or feed. Domestic primary production and the processing chain are important for both the living countryside landscape and food security. We all agree on this. We must make it possible for our countryside to be alive, even if everyone was living in the city, to have quite a long journey to work, Mr President, when we have people to farm land 50 or 100 km away where they do not live. So we need to understand that life is full of choices, we need to promote technology so that we have the opportunity to promote agriculture, too, so that this digitalisation reaches the countryside and thus also enables us to live there. [The President knocks ] There is currently no general packaging tax in Finland, only drinking packages are subject to a tax. In general, however, there is a considerable environmental burden on packaging. Finland should clarify and possibly introduce a general packaging tax, which would vary according to the environmental impacts of different packaging materials and types of packaging. This would and would produce for the State
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u393	Mr President! I was still thinking about the way in which this budget book or budget proposal responds to the global challenges we see around us. It was a pleasure to hear Mr Kulmala's speech on the issue of development cooperation. It is easy to agree with the content. But, Mr President, I think the problem is now quite serious about this amount of development cooperation and what our international promises are. We are committed to the 0.7% GDP level, and even at the moment the government is not proposing any financial plan or any path towards achieving this level. During the previous government, a separate financing mechanism was created for this purpose. Emissions auction revenues were used, and in this way the pot was increased, I think, by more than 0.6, which was, however, quite close to 0.7, and now a new financing instrument of this kind would be needed, whether it be an air tax or some other tax that could be directly allocated to these development funds — I believe that this should be considered in Parliament. Then I would like to raise one point relating to the budget book on which the government can be acknowledged: In other words, it is the thinking that has been put in place when reporting on sustainable development and in relation to the objectives of the UN 2030 Agenda. It is good that there is such a chapter in the general explanatory statement which brings these issues together, and then, for each ministry, there is this section on sustainable development separately from one section to another. It is a good thing that this has been raised as a cross-cutting issue, and it is in line, for example, with Sitra's ideas about such phenomena-based public administration that we should also deal with them thematically and not just in different silos. But perhaps one thing is one that we could go back to in more detail in Parliament. It is that from the 1990s until 2001, I remember that the budget book was accompanied by such an environmental and natural resources annex, which was made by Statistics Finland, the Finnish Environment Agency and the Ministry of the Environment, which dealt with the state of natural resources and the trend they had experienced during the year: forest resources, mining issues, others were on display there. This is the kind of data and statistics I think I would very much miss. It could be expanded, even if it is an annex to sustainable development or an annex to Agenda 2030, but it would be good information for Parliament as a basis for decision-making in order to address environmental issues, natural resources and other issues of sustainable development. Then, President, just a few words on the issues of peace and security: Peace and security are, of course, an integral part of Finland's global policy, and these UN Sustainable Development Goals also have a goal of 16, peace, security, good governance. In that sense, these things correspond to it. In this budget book, in the section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have been mentioned a very important objective, which is the role of women in conflict, the role of women and girls, this UN resolution 1325, of which Elisabeth Rehn, among others, is well known in the world. But this should be accompanied by a UN resolution of 2250, which is young people, peace and security. Around this, Finland has already developed a good profile and could further develop how to bring more young people around the world into these themes. Another point that draws my attention to is that, in the structure of the budget book, what we are doing in military crisis management, in civilian crisis management, in mediation, is not really assembled anywhere; it is here in fragments. Searching the Home Office's section, searching the State Department's section, but it's not a visionary combination. In that sense, too, it could be thought that a little more silos would be crossed and that the package we are doing on civilian crisis management, military crisis management and mediation would be clearly put together in the budget book. This would be important information and would give the whole picture to Parliament as well. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u394	Mr President! I believe that this draft budget is very much a deterrent to inequality. It is good to remember that index freezing does not apply to income support and despite index freezing, minimum daily allowances will rise and the guarantee pension will rise and the cap on medicines will fall. Minimum sickness and parental allowance, rehabilitation allowance and special care allowance will be increased to the same level as labour market support. This will reduce inequality. The daily allowance will rise by EUR 80.50 per month. The criteria for vocational rehabilitation of young people will also be relaxed and rehabilitation allowance will be paid to young people during the entire period of the rehabilitation decision. These support in particular the study and employment of disadvantaged young people. The annual retention limit for reimbursements of medicines will also be reduced. This has an impact on the State contribution of around EUR 5 million. The 55-day part of the sickness allowance will also be abolished and the sickness allowance will be paid to everyone under the same principles at least as a minimum. This will increase central government expenditure by EUR 4.4 million. The Government proposes EUR 10 million to increase the guarantee pension, which means that the guarantee pension will increase by an estimated EUR 9 per month. The increase in the guarantee pension reduces basic income support expenditure by approximately EUR 0.7 million. The pension allowance, the rehabilitation allowance for young people and the minimum daily allowance for vocational rehabilitation will also be increased accordingly to the level of the guarantee pension. The limit for submitting a pension to rest also rises to the level of the guarantee pension. In addition, the so-called Lex Lindström pension subsidy for the long-term unemployed will continue. I believe that these are the right measures to prevent inequality. Mr President! Improvements in the budget are expected to be made to compensate for military accidents and service disability. You could say at last. The Government proposes that a person performing military or civil service should be entitled to a new lump sum if he is disabled. As a result of a military accident or service disability, the next of kin who died would be entitled to a new lump sum in the future in the form of life insurance. Of course, the changes would also apply to women who perform voluntary military service. A new lump sum would be paid to garrisonmen for the permanent harm caused by an injury or illness which is compensated as a military accident or a service disease. The maximum lump sum would be EUR 21000. In military service, the next of kin of a conscript who died as a result of a military accident or service disability would be entitled to a lump sum in the form of life insurance. The amount of compensation would be EUR 200,000 for the deceased spouse and EUR 40000 for the children. If the deceased conscript did not have a spouse or children, his parents would be entitled to a lump sum of EUR 20000. It has also been hoped in several speeches this evening that this compensation would also come retrospectively, but apparently back-to-back laws will not be drawn up in Finland. Mr President! Support is also coming for veterans, conscripts and close relatives. Veterans will be supported by EUR 28.7 million more than in the 2018 actual budget. In the future, the same domestic services will be allocated to the front veterans as to the war veterans, as of 1 November 2019. I consider these reforms to be very patriotic, and it obviously took a proper minister to achieve this too. From the opposition, these reforms would not have entered into force either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u395	Mr President! I would like to say a few words about security at the end of this debate, but before that I would like to thank the experienced colleagues, Mr Filatov and Mr Haavisto, for their excellent contributions. Someone's always asking what they're doing there tonight. It would be good for a larger audience to listen to such speeches, and perhaps even more of this debate could be held in this Chamber. The security environment in our country has, in fact, been very strong since 2008, in a certain way in terms of the surrounding environment and perhaps even more significant since 2012. These changes are difficult to predict and quite rapid. During this period of government, we have had to take, and we have done, significant steps to strengthen the security of our country and also strengthen the position of our country as part of the West. A number of bilateral agreements have been concluded, not only with Sweden, but also with Germany, Great Britain and, most recently, with France. Personally, I welcome the fact that, rather than being NATO-centred, the EU countries have taken on an increasingly important role in their own security, and that is where these bilateral agreements have played a key role. Our legislation has also been substantially updated, including addressing the Achilles heel of the large reservist army, i.e. speed and mobilisation, i.e. the capacity of the troops to respond has been improved by updating the legislation, but also the legislation on international assistance and reception has finally been put into effect. In the end, our country's defence capability consists of the military capabilities of the defence system, national cooperation with the authorities and, in addition, this international defence cooperation. Personally, I think it is very important that, in the development of the country's defence, we emphasise the development of the capability of all branches of defence and at the same time the replacement and intelligence of decommissioned capabilities, cyber defence and remote action. In all these areas, significant measures have been taken over this four-year period. The material supplies have been large. The Fleet 2020 project is currently under way for the renewal of the Navy fleet. At the same time, preparations are being made for a very significant replacement of the Hornets through the HX project, and the assault rifles are also coming back to life, and I hope that there will be a Finnish factor for these when the assault rifles are renewed for our Army. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the defence organisations for their second budgeting of what is needed for this activity. In other words, we have managed to get away from these rather theatrical cuts, which Parliament has returned to us year after year. It makes more sense to use working time here in Parliament, in the committees, and also in the sections of the Committee on Finance, to go through their pains and not over and over again to correct such theatrical cuts. There will also be more posts in the Defence Forces. I hope that intelligence legislation will be brought into force as soon as possible. The military crisis management has also been taken care of. Recently, solutions have been made to continue to be present in Iraq, among other things. Perhaps in the future we need to re-evaluate a little of why we are involved in these operations. They may no longer be of the kind that would strengthen our country's own expertise there, but perhaps more than that is a shared responsibility to stabilise the environment a little further away from Europe. Mr President! I welcome the fact that security is being invested, both in external security — from the point of view of the Defence Forces, from the point of view of the army — and also in internal security, by increasing resources for the police, the protection police and so on. Security is a big part of this budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u396	Mr President! A little bit of that development aid. From one year to the next, from one decade to the next, this House is turning its hand on what would be the right level of annual development aid. Much less is discussed about how little of that money goes where it is meant to go. And then there is the subject of which many prefer to remain silent: what has been achieved with all this money and effort?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u398	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u403	Mr President! My esteemed representative, Mr Hakkarainen, told me a little bit about development aid. I've also been to see where the money goes. In Nepal, I visited a mountain village, and this year, for the first time in January, running water had arrived. It cost 10,000 euros to that village. Now these women no longer need to transport water from there for four hours a day, but can concentrate on caring for their own family and other household chores. [Standard Call] But then to go to the D.O.D. section: The draft budget for next year includes approximately 9 per cent more appropriations in the Ministry of Defence's section than in the 2018 budget. This increase is mainly due to the contribution of the Fleet 2020 project for 2019, which was mainly included in the order mandate already granted in the 2018 budget. The level of appropriations will also be raised by an increase in material performance gaps based on the Government Programme. In addition, approximately EUR 10 million has been added to the operating expenditure appropriations of the administrative sector to implement the Military Intelligence Act in accordance with the Government bill. The number of Defence Forces staff can be increased by around 100 person-years, which is worth less than EUR 6 million. This is a necessary addition to alleviate the shortage of personnel in the Defence Forces, which is already reflected in the problems of staff coping in everyday life. The conditions for general military service are safeguarded. The entire serviceable male age group will be trained. The number of day-a-days of military personnel and the number of reserve refresher exercises shall be kept at the level of 2018. The same amount of euro is also proposed in support of defence organisations as in the 2018 budget approved by Parliament. This will continue to safeguard their vital work. I consider these points to be very important and I hope that the next government will have the same continuity. Mr President! Young hunters' game management fee is halved. The Government proposes that the game management fee for young, under 18-year-old hunters be halved from the beginning of next year. This is an excellent reception for young hunters. This action sends a positive signal to take young people's attention to a good hobby. At the end of last year, Parliament dealt with the issue of an increase in game fees. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I proposed that the fee for young people's game management be halved and, for the rest, the proposal is acceptable. We unanimously tabled a proposal for a statement on the committee's report. In 2016, 1067 young people aged 10 to 14 and between 15 and 19 had a hunter's degree. A game management fee for under 18-year-olds is paid annually by around 8600 people, so the reduction in the game management fee for young people will in future result in a reduction of approximately EUR 160000 to the amount of the fee, i.e. in Finnish nothing in relation to the significance of this decision for young hunters. I consider this performance to be one of the best to get young boys and girls into a good hobby. Hunting is the only hobby in many areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u404	Mr President! Yes, that percentage can do that and many good wells have been made, but the result is so non-existent in relation to the amount of money that it can be done in another way. I have experience in development aid: In time, I went to Nicaragua to make saws. There was development aid with Finnish taxpayers’ money. What had been accomplished? Sirp stand-up. Nothing had been done except learnt to sing labor songs, or taught their citizens to sing. I went there and said that when you go in there next to the circus and start working, bring bread to your mouth, and much better than that song. Then good reports came to Finland from there that how well it works. After all, they had all the planes put there, but they weren't trained to use them. By the way, I did it, and I didn't ask for a dime for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u405	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box and now ask those representatives who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u406	Once again, we have good ideas here and we will start with the Socialist Group in Parliament. — Mr Taavitsainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u407	Mr President! The other day, I asked my children what they thought was a valuable old age. At the time, my 9-year-old son said: ‘We respect the importance of growing up, that we respect our Grandmother Pappaja for having done hard work,and that the older people should be friendly and well targeted. “ You can hear the truth from the mouth of the children. In Finland, people live longer and longer. In the final years of their lives, many need 24 - day care. Many visits to home care are not enough to guarantee valuable old age if, for example, the elderly isolates themselves and their safety is compromised by memory sickness. He may not get out of a chair or up from bed in his own home, or he will not be able to use the bathroom, be able to drink, eat and outdoors. How, Mr Government, have you ensured that we have a sufficient number of high-quality, round-the-clock care and community housing for older people right now, this autumn?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u408	Mr President! Thank you to the opposition for opening a big and important debate. I believe that we can broadly agree with the view that one of the most crucial questions for Finland's future is how to look after an ageing generation and at the same time respond to the fact that children, young people and people of working age receive the services that we have thought and used to cherish in the welfare society. So I am also talking about how we can make sufficient resources available in the event of a deterioration in the dependency ratio. In my opinion, and according to the feedback I received, the Act on Elderly Services, which was approved by the previous government, provides a good basis for the implementation of the services to which the questioner refers. Of course, another thing is the practical implementation of these services and the implementation of the spirit and letter of the law at the practical level. However, in this respect too, the situation has improved because the finances of the municipalities are better than for a long time and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u409	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Taavitsainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u410	Mr President! Supporting the home of the elderly is a good thing. It is wrong, however, for elderly people who are too ill to wait for a place to be provided, either at home where they are unable to cope or in the hospital ward. There is no relief from this line of waiting for the elderly, even your social welfare reform, because your reform has been prepared with a saving potential of EUR 936 million for care for the elderly and your calculations estimate that the cost of enhanced service housing will be reduced by hundreds of millions. This is a complete dead end. Mr Saarikko, what are you going to do about having a lot of elderly people who are far too ill in home care who are unable to access enhanced service housing when a political choice of values has been made in order to achieve short-term savings?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u411	Mr President! I have been in the understanding that the long-term common value choice of the whole Parliament has been to emphasise the importance of the services being brought home. That spirit is also the source of the entire old-age service law. Perhaps more than that, we, each of us, would be happy to put institutional care and home care at odds with each other. The debate should be broadened: What are the other forms of housing that intervene here, such as family care for the elderly, to which this government specifically allocated additional funding? What are the new technologies that enable us to support the work of demanding home care staff who release resources to do the right thing? At the same time, all of this will certainly return to the questions of leadership at the level of practical work. It is quite clear that this structure of population ageing needs to find new ways to deal with it, so that we can also maintain:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u412	Mr President! This is a very serious matter, and Parliament has long given its expression of will, whatever the government may be. In this time, everything has such a high price, but little things have no value. I believe that one thing about services for older people is that many people feel insecure when they age: Is treatment available? Is it going to be taken care of? Are they treated in accordance with human dignity? These are the questions of the day, for which Parliament must also be prepared to say that yes, we will take care of them here. In that respect, Minister, I believe there is still room for improvement. That is why I ask you: have you planned to take action during the rest of this term to unite Parliament and tell people that we are taking seriously the need that many people have for each of us to become obsolete in due course?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u413	Mr President! I believe that the opinion of the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the hand-out of cooperation is valuable and deserves to be taken up. I am thinking, above all, of the fact that the contacts I have received could be used to paint a rather black picture of the state of care for elderly people, both in institutional, service-like and home care. Fortunately, of course, this is not the whole truth, and I believe that most of the staff are doing their best. As I think more and more about this ageing Finnish reality, I find myself answering the question that — a line supported by the government — the issue of ageing Finland is a common one. We cannot think that Finnish local nurses with limited resources will solve the situation of ageing, but this will require an entirely new approach to housing solutions, such as community forms, neighbours, voluntary organisations, and yes it will also require funding. But let me say that the whole issue of ageing is not just a matter of care, it is a broader issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u414	Madam President! It is quite true that, under the leadership of the Social Democrats during the last parliamentary term, a law on the services of the elderly was adopted, which was very much appreciated not only by the people but also by this Parliament as a whole. But now, during this reign, it has been truly regrettable that you have systematically weakened the services of the elderly, the person caring for them has been reduced, quality recommendations have been weakened, customer fees have been increased by up to 30%, and you have also reduced the state's share of services for the elderly, resulting in a reduction in both home care and service housing in the municipalities. Now the consequences of this are also evident in the everyday lives and the state of fear of the elderly. So I ask you, Minister: when the elderly are afraid of the future and are distressed by the current situation, what are you going to do about it so that we can trust the future again and grow old safely?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u415	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen, you have been the voice and chairman of the family carers for a long time. That is why I am surprised at your question when you are well aware that, for example, this government has allocated a record amount of additional funding in support of informal care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u416	Mr President! We politicians have said with one eye that home is always the best place for a person. Home isn't always the best place for an old man to live. You cannot leave a memory sick person alone to live even if he does not leave his home alone in the outside world. It is irresponsible that we claim to care for the elderly by putting warm food on the table or by making sure there is food in the fridge. If you don't remember to eat or if you don't know how to go out to the fridge and get a snack, this is supposed to be a treat. That's the way it is. Instead of the elderly, the workers in the industry have been calling out about the situation of older workers. Many, including Tehy, have talked about ghost workers who are on duty schedules but not in strength on shifts. These ghost nurses are covering up staff shortages. This came up this summer, among other things. Have you, Minister, intervened in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u417	Mr President! Yes, the care and care of elderly people in Finland are in the hands of good professionals, but many of them are under a large and too large workload. I am aware of the concern you have expressed, and I cannot accept it if this is the case in municipalities or in individual workplaces. But as far as staffing is concerned in practice, I would like to raise two points: The first is the attractiveness of the sector. I take a little concern that the public debate — in which we all participate and in which we give a picture of a very black-painted and heavy care sector — in which much of the bad news is true, of course, tends to seem to young people that there is a sector that is not particularly attractive from the point of view of the workforce and the workplace. We need a lot more caring people for our welfare professionals for the elderly. The second aspect is that — you too, Mr Salonen, are a municipal decision-maker —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u418	Madam President! The hands of a Finnish nurse are warm, tender and lingering. We need more nurses. The line of the Finns has not changed, nor will it change. We have also made a bill that we need a nurse's appointment recorded in the law. A recommendation is not enough; it is only guidance. The recommendations do not reach the level of the law, and the law must build the land. How the hell are we gonna get more nurses? That's the pay, of course, that's the working conditions. What answer do you give to how you move these things forward? What about the site? Since 2014, and certainly before, plant sites have been systematically reduced in Finland and, accordingly, the long-term 24-hour care system has not been built. Why? What is an equation like this? Who's gonna take care of these old people in those homes? The technology manager will not — if you are treated via a computer, as the Hetemäki memo says. That's the nurse, the one who comes on TV.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u419	Mr President! I believe, Mr Juvonen, that we do not have any particular differences of opinion on the principles of care and care for the elderly, but I would nevertheless like to say, in relation to your speech, that my own attitude and the government's line in relation to the use of digitalisation and technology in the care and care of the elderly, for example, is fundamentally positive because the user experience of such services is also very positive. I hope that together we will not paint a landscape in which, as it were, we are replacing medical staff with technology. The question is how it could all be of help to the staff. The second area to which I referred in my previous reply is, as it were, the attractiveness of the sector, how we get the workforce. In this respect, I am also looking at a cooperation project between the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, a major project to find out what the professions and needs of the future are, first of all: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u420	Madam President! I find it highly inappropriate that Parliament should not discuss the shortcomings in the care of the elderly or that it should be seen as a grumbling in the sector if serious shortcomings are raised, for example in the home care of the elderly or in institutional care. Several nurse organisations have been pointing out for years that over 90% of care workers in the home care of the elderly have, for example, considered changing the sector or have been concerned that their work is not able to safeguard the safety of these elderly people living at home. I believe that these are very necessary explanations, and I myself, as the municipal decision-makers and parliamentarians, have been very grateful for the fact that these reports are being carried out and brought to the attention of our decision-makers, because only that and this debate will lead to a change in the situation and an improvement in the status of the elderly. For example, this week there has been a public debate on whether there should be an Ombudsman for the elderly,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u421	Mr President! I will resign from the final part of your speech the duties of delegates, such as children's and equal opportunities councillors. These are now the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. But as far as the other parts of your question are concerned: First of all, I would like to apologise if you felt that my speech was an understatement to this debate. On the contrary, I felt that I was opening the door to cooperation with the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health in response. It would be fine for me to have a much more discussion, for example, about what might fit into thinking between lonely living at home and institutional living, especially since we have agreed together on the aim of reducing the latter. I also agree with your assessment of the importance of statistics and research. We may need more than that, and I am grateful that the THL has provided us with regular information, for example, on the harsh fact that staff deducted from institutional care have not moved to home care at municipal level as originally did.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u422	Mr President! Establishments in the care of the elderly have actually been reduced, and unfortunately there has not been a similar investment in home care, and that is very regrettable. There are older people living in homes who are even worse off, and nurses are doing very valuable work there in really, really tight working conditions. These old-time so-called retirement homes have also been abolished and these places have been converted into units for enhanced service housing, which means that customers will pay more and more for these services and it will also be more difficult to get to these places. You have now raised concerns here, Minister, about the attractiveness of the work of medical staff, and people may no longer find it attractive. But at the same time, there have been cuts made by this government, for example, by nurses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u423	Mr President! In the Finnish political system, the government does not make decisions on anyone's wages. The whole difference is that on a value-based basis we can each think and value what kind of work we consider to be important. The Kiki agreement was the solution between the social partners. As far as the attractiveness of the sector and the preservation of staff in the sector are concerned, I share Mr Pekonen's view that the value of the work of the care staff is what we need to keep on the agenda. One part of this is also the fees you mentioned for elderly services. We have tried, as it were, to find out what an elderly person in Finland has to pay for services, for example, in service housing or enhanced service housing. The jungle is very diverse and there are currently no clear practices. That is why the bill on customer fees will be introduced to Parliament this autumn, which for the first time clearly at the level of the law will define the service charges for the elderly, and it will increase equality in terms of housing services and care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u424	Mr President, värderade talman! I dag är trenden och strategistin den att våra äldre ska bo hemma så länge som vöjligt med hjälp av hemvård och you give stöd som samhället erbjuder. Men många gamla drunker sig otrygga och varken viller kan klara sig hemma eller bo i sitt eget hem.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u425	Mr President! First of all, all this care and care for the elderly is defined by the quality recommendation that all service providers must commit to. In the service production of the elderly and therefore in the everyday life of the services for the elderly, I clearly recognise two major improvements over the social welfare reform: The first is that we are introducing a service provider law in connection with it, which clarifies similar rules for private and public service production, including, for example, how to consider the number of employees in relation to the number of people to be treated. And the second entity is the possibility, in particular, of the elderly and the most ill people — choice — of a personal budget that goes beyond competition law and strengthens the choice that services can acquire in a place the quality of which is considered appropriate, provided that the service provider has fully fulfilled the marginal conditions laid down by the province and thus listed in the service provision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u426	Madam President! I will raise the debate with the honourable citizens of our country: veterans, war veterans and lottats. Their average age is long over 90 years, and everyone knows and understands that if anyone needs special care and care. They have paid a price for care and anxiety by being on the front line, some for over five years. My question, Mr Government, is: in what way have you considered the war veterans, the veterans and the lottat? Have they been allocated funds, and if so, can you tell us how much?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u427	Mr President! In Finland’s centenary year, a clear additional financing decision was made relating to the open services of front veterans, i.e. the services they can receive at home or even in the form of service housing, through the cost of all their costs to society. I would like to express my very warm thanks to the parliamentary groups as a whole and, above all, to the group chairmen for having a common good view of the government budget debate around us when we were able to make a decision that in future, under the law, front veterans and invalids will be placed in the same position in relation to the right to access services. That law will be introduced as a budget law here this autumn and will enter into force next year. This was a good result of the common vision of all MPs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u428	At this stage, this issue has been dealt with. I believe that we will continue at 5 p.m. as the budget debate in this area continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u429	Next question, Parliament Group of Finns, representative Mäkelä Jani.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u430	Mr President! In our country of long distances and low population density, a well-functioning road network is a fundamental prerequisite for equal treatment of citizens. Traveling by car is a necessity — this is how we Finns see it. However, the road network, part of our national property, is collapsing. The repair debt is huge, and even though EUR 8 billion of taxes are collected on motoring per year, there will be no return to road maintenance of EUR 2 billion. This isn't right. Roads are in very dangerous condition with their emergency locations, and there would be a need not only for the necessary maintenance of the country but also for new investments in highways and railways. My question to the government is: what are you going to do to ensure that the money collected from transport is also used for transport?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u431	Madam President! It is true that our transport network has a huge repair debt and also a significant investment debt. During this government, nearly EUR 1 billion has been spent on the repair debt. New projects have also been significantly mobilised. However, this also means that for the future, we must ensure that we have adequate infrastructure funding. In the parliamentary working group, we have agreed that in future periods, we should take care of the correction debt by allocating 300 million per year to do so. In addition to this, it is good for us to have a debate on how long-term we can develop funding for infrastructure and transport network. This work is carried out in good intersectoral cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u432	I will allow another supplementary question to be asked by Mr Mäkelä. Then we will go to another subject, because this has just been discussed last night.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u433	Mr President! Well, the government's answer has a little bit of an explanation for that. They say the job and the person who did it don't meet. A well-functioning road network would also be an essential factor for working. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the roads should be put in order and the costs of driving should be reduced rather than increased. My question is this: where did the hundreds of millions of road money that have been identified as necessary in this parliamentary group on road networks go? Where did they go from the budget? What role does the task force have if its thoughts are crossed over? Is it just a matter of the government having an ulterior motive to introduce satellite monitoring for tolls and the stalking of motorists? More and more money would be milked from motorists. This cannot be the case, because mobility is a basic need. My question is: can the government promise that the money will be found in the road network and that the toll based on satellite monitoring will not be prepared?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u434	Minister Berner or Minister Orpo, which one? — — — — Minister Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u435	Madam President! At least I'll start answering. — This government has actually spent EUR 1 billion more on basic management than the previous government. It tells us of its size, so that if the parliamentary group now proposes 300 million more per year for road maintenance, then I think it is worth looking at this scale. This government has completed a three-year debt relief package, EUR 600 million, which will now end this year. We're gonna make some extra bets. It is absolutely necessary to continue to dismantle this debt in accordance with the guidelines of the parliamentary working group, but we believe that this is above all a question of the next government programme negotiations, because, in the current context of a strict framework, this funding must be seen as part of the overall budgetary framework. If, as is the case this time, we use the state’s property income — that is, the balance sheet for work — wisely, in my opinion and in our opinion, these solutions will be questions for the next Government Programme negotiations. But now Minister Berner has done an excellent job with the existing funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u436	At this stage, this issue has been dealt with. From this point of view, we will continue this evening's debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u437	Next question, the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u438	Mr President! Human rights are strongly part of Finland’s foreign and security policy value base. When we last discussed the report on foreign and security policy here together, Parliament unanimously stated that Finland would not export defence materials to warring countries or countries that violate human rights. Finland’s international commitments also prohibit the export of arms and their parts to the region where they can be used for human rights violations. Well, this week we have received new information and new evidence that Finnish, heavily armed Patria vehicles are being used in battles in Yemen — in Yemen, where the world's biggest crisis is currently taking place, causing the country's worst famine. According to the UN, more than 5,000 children have been killed or seriously injured. So I ask the Minister for Defence: will the government continue to follow the official line of our country and ensure that Finnish weapons are not exported to warring countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u439	Madam President! According to the Government Programme, Finland maintains extensive competence related to key capabilities, sufficient security of supply and the defence industry. The Defence Report also states that export conditions and internationalisation of domestic industry are supported. With regard to the case referred to here, namely the AMV wagons taken to the UAE, Finland has followed the strict case-by-case overall consideration. This is about two rounds, isn't it? Five wagons were exported in 2008 and 40 wagons were exported in 2016. The Ministry of Defence is not aware of which batch of wagons may have been used in Yemen, but I will not go to deny it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u440	Minister Soini would like to add something to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u441	Madam President! It is very important that this issue should arise. The crisis in Yemen is regrettable; it should be brought to an end. International processes must be supported, and Finland fully supports them all. How we deal with these arms sales and arms export permits: They will be dealt with both by the Ministry of Defence and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They will be examined carefully on a case-by-case basis, and if the order then exceeds the specified euro limit, it will be discussed at the Government session. These will be considered on a case-by-case basis and, of course, if a change occurs, this consideration will be reviewed if necessary. There is no automation that is always taken or never taken. These messages are, of course, taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u442	Mr President! The export of weapons to Yemen and their use for human rights violations cannot be justified in the interests of the export industry. Last time this issue came up in January, there was a clear message that this should be reviewed. I wonder whether this is still not the case, because it is quite clear when licences are granted that the human rights situation and regional stability in the country of destination must be taken into account. In all foreign policy, Finland is committed to promoting human rights, and it should therefore be clear that human rights are neither commercial nor commercial interests can take precedence over human rights. I would like to ask again: are you going to find out how these Finnish vehicles have fallen into the area, and are you going to make new guidelines as to where Finland is taking military equipment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u443	Mr President! I would like to correct Mr Mikkonen's misconception that Finland would export weapons to Yemen. Finland does not export weapons to Yemen. There is a civil war and a very worrying situation in Yemen. I'd consider it irresponsible to export weapons to Yemen. However, careful overall consideration is needed on a case-by-case basis. We cannot direct the future here, but we have followed developments in Yemen in both the Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Defence closely and there the activities of the coalition led by Saudi Arabia. There is no doubt that human rights violations have taken place and Finland has expressed its concern about them. And as a result, once we have followed the situation, I have issued negative statements on the export of destructive materials to the countries of this coalition. Last time I was in June, I blocked the export of sniper rifles to the UAE.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u444	Next question: Parliament of the Left Alliance, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u445	Madam President! For two days now, Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Orpo have been patting each other on the back and saying how well the economy is doing. Because I'm sure it's going well. We are at the top of the economy, at the top of economic growth. But apparently never will the economy be so good as to be able to share the fruits of this economic growth with low incomes. Next year you will be cutting the index for pensioners and the unemployed. But for some, though, you have understanding. At the same time as you are not cancelling the index cuts, you are about to import a stock savings account estimated at EUR 160 million at this stage — EUR 160 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u448	Madam President! First of all, it does not pay, it is a transferable tax revenue. We make a share savings account for small investors, a normal Finnish employee, which allows us to save within this share savings account, buy shares, sell shares without tax consequences — just as the rich people currently do through capitalisation agreements or insurance cover. It's only when you raise your profits out that you pay taxes. In other words, the fact that those taxes remain in the stock savings account will, in the long term, bring this moveable tax item you mentioned, which is not its price. I think it is a great thing that we are promoting popular capitalism. We provide ordinary Finnish employees with the opportunity to trade shares, save, prepare for the coming days, a good tool. Above all, that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u449	At this stage, this issue has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u450	Next, we go to the administration of the Ministry of Education and Culture. — — — — Swedish Parliament Group, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u451	Värderade talman, Madam President! När det gäller vår yrkesutbildning är det många studerande i dag som är valdigt oroliga. Antalet närstudietimmar har gått dramatiskt ner, och det beror dels på de nedskärnningar som regeringen gjort, men också på det att man inte planerat den rauh reformen tillräckligt noga.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u452	Mr President! Thank you for raising the subject to the debate. Finnish vocational education is in front of a whole new one. We have new legislation and it has come into force since the beginning of this year. This includes the idea you have raised about building a personal path for everyone, because we all understand that the target groups in vocational education and training are very diverse: There are young people who finish comprehensive school, and there are also students who come with very different educational capacities, there are young people who are goal-oriented and able to study more independently, for example, but then there are also many young people who need more support and cannot manage without the kind of support that this reform promises and offers them. There are also long-term unemployed, many adult students, there are immigrants, there are complements to their skills, people studying for a new profession, and so on. So we build paths on personal paths. We have come a long way in Finnish vocational education and training, so that those who have completed comprehensive school can be offered the place for everyone — that is, for almost everyone. We are very close to the implementation of the training guarantee, and the situation in this regard has improved. In addition, the situation in Finland seems to be better for young people: today we have just discussed the estimates of experts — civil servants — that the number of young people not in education and working life has decreased during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u453	There are two other groups here to ask questions about the activities of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Let us take them here and then have a debate on this sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u454	Firstly, the question of the Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u455	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u456	Mr President! The size of day-care centres, i.e. the number of adults in day-care centres, is strictly regulated in the legislation and, of course, it is absolutely necessary to comply with it. Similarly, during this term of government, the new legislation on early childhood education, which improves the status of a child, strengthens the child’s interest in early childhood education and also increases the level of training of personnel during a long transition period, has led to significant progress in early childhood education. So today, when one out of three are highly educated in day care centres, there will be, in 2030, two out of three adults in day care centres, and this will of course have an effect on the quality of day care centres and early childhood education. During this government there has also been a significant increase in the number of early childhood education teachers in universities. This has been very much invested in, and of course it will be very important in the future, so that we can have a situation where the participation rate of early childhood education will also increase, because we want our children to have quality early childhood education in this country, everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u457	And at this point, the parliamentary group in the centre also has a question about early childhood education, and then there will be a debate on these themes. — Mr Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u458	Madam President! The new early childhood education law has been well received among professionals in this field. However, they do not feel that it is quite complete, but that it is hoped that it will be supplemented with, among other things, a clear record in the field of the law on the number of special teachers in early childhood education, and also a definition of how long a child of shift parents can be treated at a time. Is there, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, a supplement to this good law on these issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u459	Mr President! As I have already said, this new early childhood education law is a major development. It makes early childhood education a stronger part of the educational path and strengthens the child’s interests. But it is quite true, as the honourable Member said in his speech, that it was not completed at the same time, but there are many parts to it, and this was one part that was done, and the next one is already in the pipeline. It is intended to define, on the basis of expert proposals, those issues of support: how to ensure adequate support for every child in early childhood education. It is also very important from the point of view of prevention that it is possible to prevent future problems that may arise in kindergarten and to provide early support and intervention, which will then have a long-term impact on the prevention of exclusion, among other things. The second question is, in addition to these questions of support, how we will implement this new staff structure. It is a big deal in terms of improving the quality of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u460	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen, either for this early education or for secondary education, to rise up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u461	Mr President! It is good that Mr Grahn-Laasonen also admits that there are still challenges in this vocational education and training. At the RKP, we have thought it would be good to give a proper guarantee that every young person will receive sufficient contact teaching, and then this route you mentioned may not be enough. That is why we raise this question because we see that there are still problems in the field, and because we see that some young people need much more contact teaching than is the case at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u462	Mr President! Young people must not be left too early to learn independently. I believe that we agree with that in this Chamber and we also want to send a message to the organisers of education. This has been discussed a great deal. In fact, the Ministry's view is that, in the early 2000s, when the financing of vocational education and training increased sharply, this amount of local education turned to a decline — during such a period of economic activity, a better economic situation. And it has certainly raised questions as to whether all the money, EUR 1.8 billion, which is spent on vocational education and training in general, is going to go for the right purpose, that is to say, education and the promotion and adequate support of our young people and of all those studying in vocational education and training. In other words, this requires a very clear examination, and also that the organisers of education, together with the ministry, are going through the situation in order to ensure that adequate support is provided for everyone. As far as I am concerned, this new legislation offers good opportunities to move vocational education and training forward and improve its quality. So these personal paths are the right direction,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u463	Värderade Talman! Jag fortsätter ännu på det ox temat med yrkesutbildningsreformen. En av de centrala punkterna var faktiskt den ox personalliga planen för att utveckla det egna kunnadet. I lagtexten kring den bull reformen vidkänner man att det ox betyder mer jobb för både lärare och studyhandledare.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u464	Mr President! Firstly, the entry into force of this reform of vocational education and training is, of course, a major and demanding effort in the field of vocational education and training. That is quite clear, because it is the biggest educational reform that has taken place in this country for two decades. The Government has also provided a wealth of resources, totalling around EUR 60 million, for the successful implementation of this reform of vocational education and training. We have a few months' experience of this now, and it is clear that implementation is still in progress. We have very different providers of education. Some have been operating in the advanced world of this reform for a very long time, and then some of the providers of education are only in the early stages of this work. And this is precisely what we want to support the fact that all the providers of education are involved everywhere, throughout the country, very much in the new organisation and implementation of vocational training. Those personal paths are at the heart of it. It is a basic activity, it is also the right of the student under the law, and of course it must be done because Parliament has so decreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u465	Then two supplementary questions in a row: Mr Laukkanen and Mr Mattila, you had about this early education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u466	Madam President! Mr Grahn-Laasonen, if everything you said today is true, then why do we have a day-care leave? Why can't we fill these posts? If everything is going so well now, why don't we realize how fine things are? One of the main reasons for the shortage of workers in the sector is the current low wage level. The salary is no longer in line with this training requirement that has now come. I understand that it's not up to you alone to decide who gets paid there. But I ask you now: are you going to bring a programme in which the salaries of day-care staff would rise over a certain period of time to a level that would make this sector attractive again? What are you going to do about this staffing measure, which is clearly too low now when people are not going to work there because they are going through their own work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u467	Mr President! They would like to organise training for workers from business demands very quickly, but at the moment this authorisation process takes a very long time. And now I ask, Mr Grahn-Laasonen: do you intend to facilitate the licensing process?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u468	And the answers to both these questions, Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u469	Mr President! Here are two different questions from the sector. I'll try my best to answer quickly. With regard to the level of training, you asked, Mr President, and I say that the reason why there are not enough staff in the field is because of the lack of training levels. Of course, it is something that we must influence, and that is why, during this government, we have significantly increased education rates, starting places for early childhood education teachers, by 28 million — a thousand new early childhood education teachers. In hindsight, it could be said that this would have been a matter that should have been dealt with already in the previous parliamentary term. Unfortunately, this has not happened, but it is now. Similarly, with this new legislation, we are still discussing with universities the need for further increases in educational levels. But there has indeed been a significant increase in resources. It is important to take care of the attractiveness of early childhood education, kindergartens, as jobs. Parliament does not interfere with wage formation. It's not in our jurisdiction here. At most, a message can be sent from here to the social partners for their negotiations. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u470	Mr President! It is, of course, wonderful that this new Act on early childhood education has laid down the priority of the child’s interests and their importance, but in order to ensure that the letter of the law is also implemented in practice, care must be taken of the resources of early childhood education and the ability of early childhood education professionals to do their own work well. One of the key ways in which the legislator can influence this is in terms of group sizes: it is difficult for too large groups to focus on both care and education. In other words, from the point of view of the attractiveness of the sector, the quality of early childhood education and education, this reduction in group sizes is the most important factor. I know that early childhood education professionals are still wondering why the government has not been prepared to withdraw the two decisions that have been taken during this term of government and which have directly contributed to group sizes, that is, this decision to increase group sizes through a change in the ratio, but also the restriction of subjective day care rights, which has led to these groups of mammoths of part-time children. So will Minister Grahn-Laasonen be able to answer that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u471	Mr President! When we talk about equality in early childhood education and participation in early childhood education, there is every reason to have a debate here about this number of hours of early childhood education, but I believe that the most important problem in early childhood education is at present participation in early childhood education and, in particular, that it is exceptionally low in Finland. Many children are left outside who would benefit from early childhood education and who come from the weakest educational backgrounds. The good news is that during this government, the participation rate of early childhood education has increased, so more and more children have access to early childhood education. Early childhood education fees have been reduced, and next year's budget will amount to EUR 10 million for day care centres in particularly challenging areas. The amount of education has been increased and a new law on early childhood education has been introduced, which strengthens the child’s best interests. I'm very proud of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u472	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u473	Madam President! The reform of vocational education and training is indeed an historic major reform, which coincides with the government cutting the entire education sector and research and early childhood education by nearly EUR 900 million during this parliamentary term, and with vocational education alone by EUR 200 million. This has meant cutting down the starting points for vocational training in the provinces, cutting down on local education far too much, and we should be very keen to be reformed — impossible. Yes, in vocational education, many — professional, teacher and student — have found that things have gone wrong. Minister, a reduction in the number of local education is a threat to the fact that, although the students' life stage involves not only studying but also building up all the knowledge, skills and readiness that they learn in life — and also in the social situations of studying there — which takes place in educational institutions, this is a risk of being destroyed. How do young people who are not the most self-helpful get away with this, with the best ability to study?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u474	Let's take another supplementary question. — Mr Torsti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u475	Mr President! Last night we said here that the big picture at the moment is that we have a savings proposal of more than one billion for next year and an increase of about 150 million in the OKM sector, that is to say a reduction of about 900 million, and that is what this debate on both early childhood education and vocational education and training is all about: new legislation has been put in place that cannot be implemented and, in fact, inequality in education is intensifying. I will intervene in this month of education raised by the Minister, which was in fact the first step that, with the Youth Guarantee, came into force during the previous term of government, and which has guaranteed that young people will finally be able to study. But it was the first step. The next step was to think that everyone would actually get a secondary degree, that is, to extend compulsory education to secondary school. Now that these savings in vocational education and training threaten to drop out of education, I would like to ask the Minister: when will you start preparing for the second stage of compulsory education?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u476	Mr President! These figures did not sound like the budget proposal for next year, and I hope that they will continue to be examined so that we can agree on them in this Chamber when it comes to the budget. But as far as this reform of vocational education and training is concerned, I do think in that way that after just a few months we will not be able to fully assess its impact, but it is now an important task that we give the field full support to the implementation of the major reform, we will also increase resources for the implementation of the reform, and I am convinced that this new legislation will provide the conditions for building those personal paths and future vocational training. So the fact that they say it's gone wrong is, in my opinion, yes. [MariaBeeping] The economic situation has been challenging. After all, the economic situation in Finland has now improved, and the government has also been able to reverse this trend and increase resources, including to respond to the shortage of experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u477	Mr Rinne will answer this — or ask a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u478	Mr President! I'm not a minister yet, but I'll see you next term. [Right :Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u480	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, quick answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u481	Mr President! In the previous government, major cuts in vocational education were prepared under the leadership of the Minister of Education of the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u482	At this stage, this issue has been dealt with. We have all night to discuss the budget. We'll get back to you then.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u483	Two more group questions. — Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, represented by Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u484	Mr President! According to the Chancellor of Justice, Mr Soin's actions have been problematic, although not illegal. It is quite reasonable to demand that our Foreign Minister gives the right picture of our country's aspirations for women's rights. Promoting women's and girls' rights is one of the cornerstones of Finland's foreign and development policy. This is how it's supposed to be. According to an independent assessment published to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Finland’s development policy has succeeded in promoting good practices to strengthen women’s and girls’ rights. So I ask you, Minister Soini: have you learned the lessons from the Attorney General's statement? Can Parliament in future count on you, as Foreign Minister, to give a true picture of our country and of our country's foreign policy's aspirations for women's rights?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u485	Madam President! I checked here when the motion of censure was tabled on what I have said as Foreign Minister on women's and girls' rights. I have spoken about them dozens of times, and there is not a single time that could in any way be interpreted as contrary to the rights of women and girls. [Caribbean interlude call]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u486	This question is at this stage closed; we will pick it up tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u487	Still a blue parliamentary group, Mr Torvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u488	Mr President! The homeless are a disgrace to the civilised state. For us fellow humans, they are fragile neighbors. Last week, the fate of homeless people rose to headlines, as homeless people in Oulu were thoughtlessly and boorishly compared to trash on the street. The homeless are probably the most vulnerable. Among other things, they suffer from drug abuse and mental health problems. Instead of focusing on a thoughtlessly and boorish comment, we should focus our eyes on helping homeless people. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: what is the trend in the number of homeless people, and what has been done or can be done about the homeless?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u489	Mr President! This issue raised by Mrs Torvise is extremely important, because in this Chamber too we often discuss who is the weakest in society, and certainly the homeless are almost at the edge of our society's weakest. The representative asked how homelessness has been treated and what results have been obtained. I am, of course, pleased that the number of homeless people has fallen even during this parliamentary term. In fact, Finland is the only EU Member State in which this development has gone in this direction, that homes have been given to homeless people, not just temporary shelters on their heads, but just real homes. In Finland, there is a principle that the apartment first: first of all, the aim is to ensure that the walls and roofs are really around the person. Then the other social services support comes along in order to make a comprehensive correction of one’s life. This is the work the government does every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u490	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u491	Mr President! The purpose of the Government's proposal in the referral debate is to promote and ensure good commercial practices in the food market. The proposal is necessary and supported, although it does not in itself imply a change to existing competition and market law. The only real innovation seems to be the creation of a new post, the office of the Food Market Ombudsman, in the Food Agency, which will begin at the beginning of next year. The Food Market Ombudsman is required to have a law degree and that degree is certainly required for the successful performance of the task. However, it will be even more important for the post to be run before the office is received. I believe that this is absolutely crucial in terms of the status of this official. Mr President! It is obvious that the Food Market Ombudsman cannot influence the price level to be paid on the market, but can only promote good practices and commercial practices. To this end, we already have a mechanism called the Competition and Consumer Authority. However, the food industry has been seen to need its own official. There has also been some thinking in this direction in the EU and specific problems have been seen in the food sector which are currently in the process of preparing the directive within the EU Commission. Mr President! The general task of the authorisation should be to provide advice, monitor and monitor the food chain and to address any shortcomings it has identified. The means would be to negotiate and promote reconciliation, to make a comment — in practice a written remark — and to issue a public warning and, as a last resort, to bring the matter to market law for the purpose of imposing a ban and a periodic penalty payment. A written remark and a public warning can create public pressure on companies to act responsibly. The right of the Food Ombudsman to apply for the imposition of an increased ban on market law by means of a penalty payment relates to a situation of unfair contractual terms or unfair conduct in the course of business. It may be noted that we have had the law on unfair contract terms in law since 1982 and the law on unfair conduct in business since 1978, but an individual citizen has only been able to use these regulations through a district court, which is an excessively burdensome procedure. Through the work of the Food Market Ombudsman, the possibility of applying these provisions will hopefully extend to the parties in the food chain better than the existing legal mechanisms allow. Mr President! There seems to be no Messianic power coming to the Food Commissioner. The Constitution imposes its own limitations on intervention in pricing. It is, of course, a question of property rights and freedom of contract guaranteed by the Constitution. The stronger parties in the food chain should therefore make an improvement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u492	Mr President! Due to the crisis of profitability in agriculture, there has been a great deal of talk about the profitability of agriculture or, more importantly, the non-profitability of agriculture this autumn, which is quite right. Quite rightly, however, the reasons for the profitability problems have not gone far enough, since the profitability crisis has been put almost exclusively at the root of this summer’s drought or on the back of last year’s wetness. The main reason for the profitability or unprofitability of agriculture is not individual weather conditions, but the fact that the increased production costs of agricultural production have not been achieved by increasing producer prices. In this context, particular attention has now been paid to whether or not the markets for agricultural products and foodstuffs are functioning: whether the market is functioning, for example, in a situation where two large buyers control almost 90% of the market, or in a situation where there are many traders in the chain at several levels but there are very few buyers. The aim of this bill is to ensure the functioning of the market, to ensure that fair play rules are implemented in the market. Mr President! I salute this bill with joy. Today's farmers will understand and endure fierce competition in the market, as long as competition is fair and the rules are the same for all. This bill is intended to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u493	Mr President! This food market law, which is now being presented by the government in the Chamber and here in the debate, is more than expected. It's been years, years of preparation. As I recall, when Sirkka-Liisa Anttila, the current representative, was once a minister, this preparation started, and now we are in this situation that we have this and that will come into force at the turn of the year. Is there a solution to the long-term problem of agricultural profitability and fairer trading practices? We have a strong belief that this is where we actually find the solutions to the fact that whoever does the most but gets the least today in this food chain is going to be able to make a corresponding contribution to the cost and also a return on capital in the future. There has already been much speculation in the public domain about the power that this Food Commissioner is going to have, the kind of action that is going to take. Well, actually, the future does. But if there is not much to come, then it simply tells us that they do work. And perhaps this mere legislation is also curbing those unhealthy practices. Mr President! The fact that the budget now also has funding for this delegate and the unanimous proposal of the government parties that this market law will come into force has a key role to play in creating faith in the future also for the young producers who are currently under the strain of its unprofitable activities. This is one part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u494	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u495	Mr President! There has been a broad general debate on the government's economic and tax policy already in the course of this week, but I would now like to comment briefly on this government's income tax policy. Not only in euros, but also in relative terms, the main tax reductions for pensioners have been directed by the government towards pensioners who receive a monthly pension of around EUR 7000. On the other hand, tax reductions for pensioners on low and medium incomes are also significantly lower in relative terms. Regrettably, this government's proposal gives a very strong picture of the tax policy in the United Kingdom. This is despite the fact that, for example, the taxation of citizens receiving an employment pension up to EUR 1600 a month is much more stringent than the taxation of wages and salaries, and this difference seems to be increasing with the government's proposal. I am therefore sorry that the government does not seem willing to improve this situation for pensioners receiving a small or moderate pension, especially when housing and mobility costs are constantly rising and pensions are falling behind in terms of wage developments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u496	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u497	Mr President! Good crowd, ladies and gentlemen! There is no minimum age for the completion of a hunter's degree. I got a degree when I was 12. A hunting hobby can be started after completing a degree and after paying a game management fee, either with or without a gun. Even if he is under 15 years old, he may hunt with a gun even if he is not authorised to possess a gun if and when there is a person in his immediate vicinity who is responsible for the use of the gun and who holds the gun. After 15 years of age, a young person can apply for a parallel permit for a hunting weapon with the consent of his/her guardian and hunt without the immediate presence of the responsible person. Even without a gun, you can hunt, for example, by entrapment of wild minks, raccoon dogs and weasels. A young person who has fallen into nature learns to read the map and to navigate and survive on the ground on his own. These matters are also helpful in carrying out the military service. In Finland, hunting is a very popular hobby, especially in forested and sparsely populated areas. Besides, there are few leisure activities in these areas, so hunting is of unpredictable value. Today in Finland there are some 300,000 annual payments for game management, of which more than 5 percent are women, or about 20,000 are women. Women often get caught up in hunting activities through dog hobbies. A couple of days ago, it was reported that a woman begins as the head of the hunt for the Pellon Batch. According to the intel, she's not the only woman chasing after her. I also encourage hunting clubs to open up memberships for women to catch big game. In recent years, the number of young hunters has been found to increase at a moderate rate throughout Finland. This will be helped by the enhanced training of the Game Centre and game management associations in cities as well. The aging of hunters and the thunderstorming of hunting clubs have been folded. Mr President! The draft law proposes a reduction of the current EUR 39 to EUR 20 for game-keeping fees under the age of 18. A person who has not turned 18 by 1 August would be entitled to a payment of EUR 20. Despite my more than 40 years of hunter experience, I support this excellent performance with the joy of youth and the enthusiasm of youth. The performance enables both a hunter's degree and a game management fee to be paid with a small amount of effort. Mr President! I hope that the amendment of the law will encourage young men and young women in many ways to engage in rewarding hunting activities that are strongly part of the Finnish wilderness culture. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u498	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-20-ps-87.u499	Mr President! Thank you to the government for this bill. It is good that we should continue to ensure that passive labour market support can also be used actively as wage support. This places the lack that we have on the side of the wage subsidy as a whole. But I would like to say at this stage to further development and to further ideas that, with the current active model and the forthcoming active model, we have tried to ensure that the employment services sector works as far as possible through the electronic and, as it were, robotic digital system, why are we not also prepared to develop wage support in this direction? Instead of certain criteria — the criteria which lay down certain framework conditions for the unemployed in order to be able to receive a pay subsidy, such as the duration of unemployment, disability, age or something else that makes access to employment more difficult — this pay subsidy would be granted reasonably automatically and we would then carry out ex post controls. I am quite sure that the shop stewards in the workplace would report the situations in which, for example, the labour force with wage subsidies would start to replace the permanent labour force — that is to say, the dismissal of former workers and the replacement of wage subsidies — and this would bring these abuses to an end. This would be one of the ways in which unnecessary work at TE Offices could be dismantled and perhaps then in future regions where there will be little resources on the labour side. In fact, what is lacking in this law is that it continues only to the assumed beginning of the provincial administration. The Minister has told us many times in this Chamber that when you go to the provincial administration, all the resources for labour policy will be transferred there as they are now. They will not move if this law remains in force or if this law is only extended until we move to the provincial government if we move. This is, in fact, a quite significant contribution, and I would have liked this law to have become permanent and to have been developed further by means of digitalisation.
