ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u2	The first question is asked by Mr Lindtman, representative of the Socialist Group in Parliament. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u3	Mr President! At the same time, the first grip of a small newborn child is firm and tender. On that occasion there is a great deal of trust and responsibility. Trust that both parents are present in the child’s life. Responsibilities that tomorrow will always be brighter. Trust and responsibility are also binding on us decision-makers. The decisions of this government have not been very dramatic for families. Much has been cut from family life, but the spark of hope came last year when the government announced that it would implement a family leave reform. Last Friday, however, the Minister for the Family of the Government suddenly announced that he would suspend this reform. Even greater amazement was the reason why this was interrupted. The Minister announced that the models that had been prepared would have been bad for Finnish families. When you are responsible for preparing this reform, I am sure that Finnish families would be interested to know why you prepared bad models.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u4	Mr President! As the father of a small child, you know, Congressman Lindtman, what you're talking about. And I believe that many here who have been given the privilege of acting as a parent know that it is perhaps the greatest and most important of our responsibilities and challenges in life. Every adult’s everyday life is someone’s childhood, and I feel just as you do in your question that each child should have the right to have a time together with both parents when the child is small. Therefore, the common goal of increasing the care responsibility of fathers, which is widely accepted in society, must be at the centre of Finnish family policy from now on more and more strongly. The reason why this government did not now move in the direction of a major reform was because, at the stages of the reform, we discovered the complexity and, above all, the broad-based costs that the reform would have entailed and, on the other hand, the effects on employment were over-exposed outside the government. With those marginal conditions, we did not achieve a model that would inevitably have been better for families. This is regrettable, but I hope that all the preparatory work that this government has done will then bring about good reforms for the next government, as the money purse of the government and perhaps of the social partners will be more widely open.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u6	Mr President! After all, the government announced that it would abandon one of the preconditions when the Minister of Finance announced that there was a willingness to invest in this. Mr President! For children, a good Finland requires a family-friendly policy, and Finland has the most rigid family leave system in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u9	Minister Saarikko, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u10	Mr President! The government also found a good common value base when early childhood education fees were significantly reduced from the beginning of this year. EUR 70 million less of them are collected from Finnish families, focusing on low income families. Several thousand families ended up in free early childhood education, and this is a step in the right direction from the point of view of the daily lives of families who live in peak years of life who pay housing loans. We also found a common denominator when, for the first time in Finnish history, we decided to add money to improve the content of the maternity allowance, i.e. more familiarly the maternity package, and to the single parent-sharing breed for child benefit. I would not think it justified the opposition's criticism that this government did not invest in children and families. I believe we are in agreement that just as relevant as benefits and transfers,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u13	I would like to remind you of the use of time, but also of the fact that the Minister for Sectors and the Minister for Responsibility always answers and is asked a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u14	Madam President! I think that the failure of the reform of family leave is a good thing, and I think that it is good for the Finns. It is very important that this reform of family leave and the debate on home care support in general be carried out in depth and in depth. True Finns feel it is unreasonable for us to be doing some form of forced sharing or for us to force fathers to stay at home. This is not the right thing to do. This has been discussed, forced-sharing, forced-on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u15	Yes, Mr President, it is important for this government to have children and families, but equally so that both parents, their fathers and mothers, Finnish workers can spend time together with their children when they are small and that working life can also be flexible as practical actions. It is not enough to carry out on paper a reform that is comprehensive and correct in terms of social policy as a matter of value-based mission, but we need a reform that would be genuinely used by families to ensure that equality reform takes place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u18	Mr President! The role of women in working life will not be strengthened and the equal parenting of fathers will not be achieved without the reform of family leave. It is quite clear that the family must have the opportunity to choose how to care for the children. But it is just as clear that we, as legislators, must ensure equality in this country. I am very disappointed that the government decided not to renew family leave. It's a loss to equality, it's a loss to employment. In practice, the reform of family leave fell before the reform work was carried out, because the framework conditions for the reform were agreed as impossible. In practice, home care allowance must not be touched and the reform must not cost anything. I would like to ask the minister in question: now that the reform of family leave has been put on ice, how do you intend, in concrete terms, to promote gender equality, both in the labour market and in families?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u19	Mr President! Family leave is not only an issue of equality but also of child policy in Finland. In a European comparison, we have a relatively good parental leave system, if we look at its length, but we deviate, as has been said here, in terms of the level of compensation and the rigidity of the model from other Nordic control countries. In Finland, progress has been slower, and I have therefore been particularly pleased that yesterday, for example, here in the parliamentary debate, it became very clear that the next government will certainly reform the family leave in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u20	Mr President! In the opinion of the Left Alliance, Finland needs a reform of family leave, but only one that increases the chances for fathers to remain on child-care leave and, at the same time, also the flexibility of families to decide how and who to use it — precisely in the way that during the last parliamentary term, under the leadership of the Minister for Gender Equality, Mr Arhinmäki, the opportunities for fathers to remain free without undermining anyone’s position. On the other hand, we will not miss this family leave model, which has now fallen, in which the longer share of fathers would have been put into practice by cutting mothers' chances of holding earnings-related family leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u24	Mr President! Mr Andersson, in your question you refer to whose fault it is that this reform fell. With regard to setting this reform in motion, with a serious attempt, and also with regard to the end result, we need to prepare it better and do it in a more prudent, careful and certainly more financial way, together with the entire government. With regard to these acts for equality or for families, which have rightly been asked after this unfortunate and disappointing decision, the programme of changes in child and family services — although it does not sound as hot as the subject of talk or as much emotion as the debate on where the child's place is, in the day-care centre or at home, which always comes from the background of this debate — it is, ladies and gentlemen, an important matter: whether we can make the services of Finnish families change so that the cost of child protection can finally be broken down, families helped in time and parenthood.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u25	Mr President! What has the government really done to promote equality? It's very difficult to find. Promoting equality usually strengthens the child’s position. In my opinion, Prime Minister Sipilä's television coverage of the fact that there is something about employment, about job creation, shows that he may not have really understood what it is about. It is a question of women's position in the labour market, in which every woman, whether she wants children or wants to be without children, suffers discrimination because she is a potential parent leaver, [Department :Actually! — Intermediate calls]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u26	Mr President! After all, these family leave is more than just home care support, which is always the first thing to come up in the debate. For the majority of families, the much more relevant part of Finnish family benefits is the first year of better support for the first baby, the financing of which is largely borne by employers and employees through their labour income insurance. That is why this solution is a wider decision, a decision shared by society, not just as if it were one that would move pieces of home care support. Family leave is a whole thing. But, Mr Biaudet, you asked an important question about equality, which you have worked hard for in Finland. I am pleased to be able to say in response to the problem of improving the labour market position of women, including in response to one of its structural problems, the cost of women-dominated sectors, that the government set up a lump sum of EUR 2500 for employers in the early part of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u27	Madam President! Reduced birth rates indicate that we do indeed need a better family policy, but we do not need a reform that reduces the freedom of choice for families, reduces the right of the child to the arms of the mother or father, and actually increases the cost of day care. The fact is that quotas and quotas for fathers and mothers would only increase the rigidity of the family leave system. And it must be remembered that home care support is currently a very flexible system,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u30	Mr President! As I described, the government prepared this reform in a solution-oriented manner in good cooperation and in earnest. There were many models on the table, but it turned out, as it were, in relation to the great waiting value of the reform which we ourselves must have mistakenly set too tight in terms of the marginal conditions, that it was difficult to find an overall package that could have been agreed on, for example, that the high waiting value for employment would have been met, on the one hand, the right to freedom of choice. And then there are a lot of things that are not solved by law, such as the fact that the good reform of flexible care money by the last government, the support of society in the euro for returning to work, for example, four days a week instead of five, is an exceptionally under-utilised benefit, and perhaps more about the rigidity of the Finnish labour market than the fact that everything is wrong with legislation. We have a big difference with Sweden precisely how we can make use of the baby phase
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u31	Madam President! It is, of course, very nice that the previous government is so much praised here by the current government, but the fact is that the collapse of the family leave reform is a great disappointment to Finnish families and Finnish children. The expectations were very high, as the Minister said here, because you yourself argued that care responsibilities should be shared more evenly among parents, but now you place this responsibility on the future government as much as anything else. We Social Democrats are prepared to reform the family leave system; we have a viable and sensible model. And as the last season showed, just as the Minister here testified, paternity leave was extended, flexible care allowance was developed to better meet the needs of families. Minister Saarikko, why did you not do something about family leave in this spirit of reform? Why did you not continue these reforms that we had in the last period?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u32	Mr President! It is quite true that much has been raised here, particularly this more even distribution of care responsibilities, and hence equality. I think so, and I believe that the government as a whole agrees with this assessment that it is a more complex and broader entity than just a family leave reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u35	I would ask you to pay attention at this time, 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u36	Madam President! Congressman Andersson brought up the family leave model for the Coalition Party. He must be told from the models now on the board of the government that they were incomplete models and were formulated within the limits set by the government jointly. The Coalition Party would have been prepared to continue work on finding the model and reform. As far as the convention model is concerned, the Coalition Party has presented its own model more than a year ago. It responds to these needs in order to streamline the daily lives of families, to support equal parents and to improve the labour market position of women. That is why reform is needed and the coalition is committed to this reform. I ask the government: if there is no reform of the family leave, what are you going to do this season to improve the labour market position of women?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u37	Mr President! In this regard, the two previous speakers have referred to the party's own models, many of which, exceptionally large, were drawn up by the parties and, as a result, the government decided, for its part last autumn, to try to see whether this solution could be made in practice in the middle of the parliamentary term and, as it were, as a reform in which the euro would not move much, except for the costs of moving to early childhood education, but the benefits of families would not have been improved in euros as such. I think it would be all right if we could act in such a way that these party models, for example, would be calculated as an official assessment,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u40	Mr President! It has to be said that this preparatory reform would have been detrimental to up to two thirds of families. It would also have cut the livelihoods of low-income families, and the opposition, in front of my ears yesterday, has also strongly opposed this. How can you support such a reform that has clearly cut the livelihood of families with children?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u42	Minister Saarikko, please. — — — — There was no question, but answer me something.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u43	Mr President! I'll answer you a few questions anyway. — In this regard, it was noted that the last steps of reform which the government had at the table would have been cuts to families with children. As many representatives of the media have been credited with that calculation, the answer is: possibly. It would depend on how much the families would have changed their behavior. Would fathers have taken twice as much advantage of family leave as we recognize a situation in which only one in five is currently using all the free? This would have had an impact on whether housewives had been employed or moved to work in the past. To this latter part of the debate, I would like to say that it is not only easy to discuss, what is being cut off and who is being given benefits, but also to think about the daily lives of these people and the lives of the families with children, and also to recognise the fact that long-term mothers with the support of home care — for the most part, they are women —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u44	And the author of the original question, Mr Lindtman, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u45	Mr President! This debate, which has taken place in particular between the government parties, shows that on this government basis family leave cannot be reformed. [From Green Group: It's true!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u46	Mr President! From the point of view of Finnish families with children, the biggest reform and improvement as a result of this parliamentary term is the rise in the Finnish economy and employment situation, the fact that tens of thousands of Finnish families have been able to improve the family's life situation with the pay received from the workplace and thus livelihood and, in general, make life easier as a whole. Mr President! As I recall last season, attempts were made to change the allowance for home care, but that was not the case at the time. The benefit has been in force — only the portions of home care support, I mean now — as long as Mr Lindtman and I have lived in this country, and no government has wanted to remove it because of the fact that 87 per cent of families use more or less of that benefit. And it tells us that Finns want to spend more and more time as a value choice, both fathers and mothers, hopefully also fathers in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u47	Now we all really have to understand that there's only one minute left. — But Prime Minister, briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u48	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Saarikko and the group of ministers behind this, for having carried out in-depth impact assessments of what this reform would mean, the impact on employment, the price, the impact on equality, and I believe that this will serve as the basis for the reform work that inevitably lies ahead of us. There is probably no party in this Chamber that would not want to reform the family leave, but it is reasonable that when the cost of reform for public finances is so high — this is now a realistic calculation — then the reform will be carried out in agreement with the government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u49	And one more question, Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u50	Mr President! Thank you for this question to Prime Minister Sipilä. There has now been a wide-ranging debate here on the basis of this Question Time, and it has become clear here that this government base, i.e. the Central Party, the Coalition Party and the Blues, is unable to reform the family leave system. That is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u51	Mr President! There are two different aspects here. The fact that entrepreneurship reduction was made is an act of equality for the labour market and entrepreneurs. There are a very large number of female entrepreneurs operating in personalized companies, for example in the social welfare and health care sectors. It is clear that family leave reform is needed and the centre is ready for it, the coalition is ready for it, the blue are ready for it. But we have had unrealistic expectations, particularly in the public domain and also in this House, of what its effects are, what it would cost, and then it is good that, on the basis of this thorough work, which has now been carried out as an impact assessment, the next government's programme will then agree more precisely on the model, because without cost, it will not be possible to do it either. That has become clear here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u52	Next question, the Finnish Parliament Group, Mäkelä Jani.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u53	Mr President! The EU Commission proposes to transform the European Stability Mechanism into the European Monetary Fund — another step towards a federal state. Finland would no longer be able to decide independently whether or not to grant aid packages. Once again, the decision-making power of the Finnish people is being robbed into the hands of the EU elite. This is something that we Finns do not accept. Britain, which represents the independent line, is leaving the sled, the German government negotiations are in the final stages and the government's programme is hard to read. Cooperation between Germany and France will intensify and federal development will be promoted. Now Finland must find the countries with which this development can be combated in cooperation. My question is: is the government going to reject plans for an EU federal state and the creation of a Eurozone Monetary Fund? Will the government keep the decision on the common money in the hands of a parliament elected by the Finnish people?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u54	Mr President! Finland does not intend to establish a federal state, but will continue along the traditional lines that we have had for a long time. The fact that our monetary union is not ready showed that there has been an economic crisis in Europe. Now that the economic crisis is behind us and things are in relatively good shape in the countries of crisis too, it is the time when the system needs to be updated in order to respond to possible future situations. I believe that making this ESM a stability fund or a mechanism is a step in the direction of preparing for future crises. In the next crisis, the euro area as a whole must be stronger than in the previous crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u55	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u56	Mr President! This is a clear direction: the EU's giants are moving the federal state forward, whether we like it or not. As a small country, we do not have great opportunities to influence the development of the EU, especially when our government actually supports this federal development. And that's not all. From the government's point of view, it has been suggested that, with the departure of Britain, Finland must prepare itself for the increase in its net membership of the EU. Of course, the Minister for European Affairs has declared that no more payments should be made. At the same time, the Minister of Finance said that an increase in payments could be considered. There is a clear contradiction. You, Mr Orpo, have spoken about the fact that taxpayers' money cannot be distributed as it happens. Now you can spread to Europe? Mr President! I want a clear answer to which line the government is working. Are you going to allow Finland's contribution to the EU to be increased with Brexit?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u57	Mr President! Tomorrow's Committee of Ministers will discuss the financial frameworks. The Finnish policy has been that we do not fill that gap left by Britain. It has a net amount of approximately EUR 12 billion. But at the same time we decided that we are not exactly in this percentage, because we need to have some room for negotiation in those negotiations. If we were to bet where that level of the EU budget would settle, it would be a percentage over a few tenths. Such messages have also come from France and Germany. It is important for Finland that product development and innovation support are now emphasised, and it is also important for us to take care of domestic agriculture and regional policy money. In these frameworks, we are discussing the EU's financial frameworks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u58	Mr President! In the German Government negotiations, the Social Democrats also received guidelines on the integration of the EU, which largely follow the Commission's proposals to which Mr Mäkelä referred in his speech. According to the Government Treaty, or draft, Germany will increase funding for the EU budget and grant the separate euro area budget line proposed by the Commission, which will later be developed into the euro area's own budget. These entries are from the German Government programme. According to the Government Treaty, this European Stability Mechanism should also become the European Monetary Fund. What does this mean in practice? This solidarity is being counterbalanced by increasing efforts to control and coordinate the budgets of the Member States. I ask the Government: What does this mean for Finland if this government programme in Germany is adopted? Can the government accept such proposals that would increase Finland’s financial responsibilities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u59	Mr President! We have a clear starting point for not going into solutions that would increase our financial responsibilities. If something is said in the German government negotiations, that does not mean that we are rushing to change our own line. We have a clear line of our own. We are there at the tables, not as listeners, but as part of the decision-making process, and we are trying to influence the decisions that are being made. I do not believe that there are any lines in the German Government programme that would cause immediate concern now, because Germany too continues to assume that there should be a levelling-down of risks and a reduction in risks before any collective responsibility can be taken, for example, in the context of the extension of deposit protection. As far as this development of the common monetary fund is concerned, that is a good objective, but it must be done within the framework of the current legislation of the ESM, not by transferring this important instrument to the Commission and Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u60	Madam President! Finland is a small country, our international affairs must be handled with skill. They also include European policy, which also requires a certain degree of political wisdom. This does not include such a policy of slogans, slogans from a federal state, slogans from a debt, transfer union or slogans about solidarity from heaven. These slogans don't take things forward. It is in Finland's interest to cooperate in Europe and to take care of these issues in a proper manner, including this monetary and economic union. On the one hand, the EMU deepens from the point of view of European added value — we have overcome the euro crisis, we have to correct certain shortcomings — but, on the other hand, we must take care of national responsibility. But it's just as much as slogans do when you just look at them. Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are expected to be active. For example, the future EU budget: Finland at the same time requires lower net payments but higher receivables.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u61	Mr President! I agree with the opinion expressed at the beginning by the representative that rhetoric is not going to succeed. Also, from the rhetoric that the government is not active and does not have any effect, you could gradually give up. As a member of a large committee, you know very well that the government has formed positions in good time, including financial frameworks. In defence cooperation, we formed positions, we influenced them, and we got through what we wanted. We have formed a position on the development of EMU and on the development of monetary union in good time, we have sought partners, the same-minded ones, and we influence its content, we are constantly working on it. The same applies to the financial frameworks. We have formed our position in time, we are seeking allies, and this is the active influence on the practical level, not on the rhetorical level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u62	One more question. Congressman Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u63	Mr President! The blue future is crystal clear about the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u66	Mr President! We are not ready and we are not prepared to do so in other Member States either. It is quite clear that, within the framework of the current Treaty, the EU is now being developed. It has also been agreed in the Roman release a year ago. Now we need concrete steps in the further development of this monetary union, the euro. We need to develop it. The banking union must be completed, but we want to take steps to reduce the risks. For example, the relationship between banks and states must be lowered. In Italy, for example, this is too high. We have concrete steps to go forward with what needs to be completed. But we have to move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u67	Next question, Congressman Ville Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u68	Mr President! Finland cannot be a country that turns people into a danger of life. Unfortunately, this unconditional return ban imposed by the Finnish Constitution and international human rights treaties is at stake in Finland today, and that question must be taken seriously. This week the case of Al of Baghdad came up. He had received a decision to convert from Finland, and this father and grandfather were killed just a few weeks after returning. His daughter and her daughter's children are also threatened with proselytism, even though their father, the father of these grandchildren, has been given a decision to stay in Finland. The UN Refugees Organisation (UNHCR) criticises Finland's approach to allowing negative decisions through internal flight, for example in Iraq, on a broad scale. Only about 20% of Iraqis receive asylum in Finland when the EU average is 60%. Legislation has been tightened, access to legal aid has been made more difficult. Minister, the government is responsible for this whole and for the individual decisions of Migri. Are you prepared to assess this whole:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u69	Mr President! Mr Niinistö, the real representative, drew attention to a very serious question. Of course, it is up to all of us to ensure that a clear ban on the return of the person who is the victim of the personal threat, which is written in the Finnish Constitution, is also fulfilled, and in this respect the legislation is clear. Then the question of whether we, the Finnish Immigration Service and the Finnish courts, have sufficient processes, resources, the prerequisites for an adequate assessment of this possibility of personal threat is, of course, something that we must constantly assess. No one is deliberately returned from Finland contrary to the Constitution, and in individual cases it is also difficult to be wise afterwards in what has all led to the death of an individual person. We cannot take responsibility for what happens after the arguments put forward by the applicant have first been examined by the Finnish Immigration Service, then by the Court of Justice and, for example, in the very tragic, sad case mentioned here, also in relation to the Supreme Administrative Court. But we must constantly ensure that the resources are in place and as well as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u70	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u71	Mr President! What is essential is that our laws, their applications, resources, access to legal aid work in such a way that we fulfil the principles of legal protection for those seeking protection in Finland with honor, in other words, in the way in which the country of education must comply. Many of them are in distress, may have personal distress, may have been victims of torture. They may even have difficulty trusting that they will be heard, and then the processes must be such that it will certainly be carried out. The criticisms of the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) are very strong that Finland is using the internal escape to a large extent, so that people are returned to Iraq and Afghanistan, in particular, on a rather strict forced return line and quite widely using negative decisions, a lot of families with children and a lot of people who could be given asylum under other circumstances. The French court also considered that a person could not be returned to Finland in accordance with the Dublin principle because they suspected that he was threatened by a return. An overall assessment of this overall picture would therefore be necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u72	Mr President! As I said, I think this evaluation must be continuous. However, it must also be said that in the Finnish courts, which I trust, only 4% of the decisions returned have been linked to a procedural or interpretative error and the legislation that is interpreted is very clear in itself that a person who is threatened by a personal threat cannot be returned, in which case the courts themselves act in the way the law is intended to be used. With regard to the situation in the Nordic countries in relation to Central Europe, we all know that there has been a great deal of Iraqis here, and that is why the ratios for Iraqis can be different. Central Europe has become a large number of people, among whom there may be fewer who meet the criteria for international protection than, for example, among the Iraqis who have arrived in Central Europe and, on the contrary, for some other citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u73	Madam President! The immigration policy has been tightened in many respects during this term of government, and for this I thank the Government. At the same time, however, many European countries have tightened the line even more. There are a lot of good entries in the Government Programme and the 80-point Additional Protocol to that Programme at the end of 2015. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: what is the timetable for the implementation of these measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u74	Mr President! With regard to this programme and the programmes and additional measures that have been constantly implemented since then, implementation is progressing, and tomorrow we will have a ministerial working group on immigration to monitor how progress is being made in these areas, among other things, while respecting international agreements, Finnish legislation and the Government Programme. The basic premise is clear that those in need of international protection will be helped and the process must be fair. With regard to those who have taken a negative decision, of course, it is clear that the shadow society, the division into illegal and legitimate Finns, we cannot accept. It is a problematic situation for everyone, including those who may remain in Finland, and in particular this year, the question is how, in the case of those who have received a final negative decision, we can achieve a situation other than that in which we have an illegal population.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u75	Next question, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u76	Madam President! Minister Saarikko said earlier here in Question Time that children and families are important to the government, and the fall of the family leave reform is also justified by the desire to defend families with children. This seems a little strange when you look at yesterday's report published by SOST. The result is that the results of government policy have been assessed by SOSTE, and the result is that ‘in particular, the income of low-income families with children has been reduced’, especially for low-income families. In addition, the unemployed and students have suffered from government policies due to cuts in social security, but also to a reduction in the taxation of social benefits and housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u79	And who's answering?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u80	Mr President! First of all, according to Statistics Finland's statistics, income differentials did not grow in 2016, but I admit that in 2017 they can grow because economic growth has exceeded all forecasts, and when the economy is growing strongly, they also want to increase. The reduction in long-term unemployment may be the main factor in the development of inequality. Last season, there were 50,000 more long-term unemployed. Over the past year, the number of long-term unemployed has fallen by 30,000, that is, one in four long-term unemployed people have been employed, and this is certainly the most important thing that has been achieved for a long, long time to halt the trend of inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u81	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you did not answer any of my questions. Before the elections, you said 'no cuts in basic security', as you promised, and now, unfortunately, the report by the Social Security Committee shows how basic security has been cut. You talked about income differences, and in fact both the Parliament's information service and the Ministry of Finance's own calculations show that the government's policy has led to an increase in income differences. The government's decisions have increased income differentials. When the previous government has rightly been praised for the reform of family leave, SOSTE has also assessed the actions of the previous government in terms of income differentials and basic security, and it states that the changes made to social benefits during the period 2012-2015 were favourable to low incomes. How could it have happened, Prime Minister, before the elections, that basic security should be guaranteed,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u82	Madam President! The cuts are always painful, that is clear, and what has been done in basic security is freezing the indexes, that is true.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u85	And one more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u86	Madam President! Now I have to say that the Prime Minister's answer was very embellishment of your actions. The fact is that if you had not cut basic security, it would currently be at least EUR 725 per month, now that it is under EUR 700. Furthermore, the active model that you have implemented will cut 5% of the poorest unemployed, when we are already in a situation where the basic security of the unemployed is not sufficient to reach the minimum budget level, but below this poverty threshold, which is internationally defined, and Finland has even received comments from the EU that our basic security is not enough to live. The question is, how can you continue along these lines?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u89	Mr President! Poverty, permanent poverty, is a serious problem in Finland and many other European countries. It is accompanied equally by a number of factors other than the lack of income. It creates other experiences of exclusion and exclusion. I understand the need for the opposition to explain the government's actions on this side of the picture. It might not be so easy for you to tell about the story in which the government wants to lift people away from basic security to working life and self-employment and active life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u90	And one more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u91	Mr President! Once again, the Prime Minister's seat in this Chamber is spoken of contrary to what is true.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u96	Mr President! The indices have been frozen, that is a fact. But, Mr Rinne, if you are being honest with yourself, your programme, I think, had 800 million index cuts. Of course, it says not to operate on basic security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u98	One quick question. Congressman Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u99	Mr President, värderade talman! Yle announced this week that Kela will recover student financial aid from nearly 35,000 students from the year before last, totalling over EUR 45 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u100	Mr President! The question is the most important. These cuts have already been agreed at the time of the government negotiations and I am not prepared to announce any changes to the government programme. But the question of whether the student allowance has been cut must in fact be clarified that the student allowance has been cut. The student allowance, which also consists of a student loan guarantee, has been increased, so by taking out a student loan the student can actually raise his or her income compared to the previous parliamentary term, when he or she will then pay back this guaranteed loan. In any case, the idea of these income limits is a personal pleasure to me and can be considered in the future, because it is precisely because it encourages hard work and, in that sense, you are right to encourage young people, for example, to try, to work even during their studies, when they gain experience in working life at the same time as in studying, so the idea itself is quite right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u101	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. The debate begins, Minister Häkkänen is presenting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u102	Mr President, ärade talman! Parliament will now have a Government report on the application of language legislation in 2017. The report is a comprehensive package of information, monitoring rights and also good practical examples of the realisation of linguistic rights. Linguistic rights are fundamental rights; they play an important role in the rule of law. The realisation of linguistic rights is often a prerequisite for the realisation of other fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u103	Mr President, värderade talman! I would like to begin by thanking you for this good work and I very much appreciate the work that the Ministry of Justice is doing on the monitoring and enforcement of linguistic rights. I would like to talk a little about the status of sign languages, both sign languages. I think it is very well stated here, for example, how difficult it is to learn sign language. Children and, of course, families suffer from this. If we do not recognise this right to be taught in sign language and language, then we will make a very big mistake, and that seems to be the case. I now have the Swedish version here, but here it is stated that ‘mångamyndighetsattyderspeglarupfattningenatteckenspråketbaraaretthjälpmedel’. So the idea of the authorities, and we are talking about the authorities at large, seems to be that sign language is only an aid, a means of communicating, and it is not the case that it is a matter of mother tongue and that it is also a matter of identity, that sign language as a mother tongue is part of the identity of children and also of families. In my opinion, we have tried to promote this in order to give children the right to be taught in sign language, but it seems that we still have shortcomings here, if that is the case, as it says here, that the authorities still do not recognise that this is a question of mother tongue, it is a question of identity, a question of culture. I think that we should talk about what can be done, how to promote the right of children and families to receive this education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u104	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! I regeringens berättelse om tillampningen av språklagstiftningen — jag vill gärna säga det också till ministern — som jag tycker är tal arbetad och en mycket bra berättelse, finns många iaktagelser om tillgodosendet av de språkliga rättigheterna, precis som det ska vara. Några av de mest centrala iakttagelserna: Jag lyfter upp de utmangar i språkförhållandena som många av oss Svenskspråkiga öter i vardagen. Det går inte att bortse från att det finns en hel del att förbättra i språkklimatet. Det behövs en positivare attityd gentemot oika språkgrupper inclusive dem som använder teckenspråk. Statsmakten med riksdagen och regeringen i spetsen bär i slutändan ansvaret för det rauta attitydclimatet i samhället, och vi måste alla ta på allvar att försöka främja ett positivare attitydclimat. En sak som kommer fram i berättelsen är att aven myndigheternas medvetenhet om sin skyldighet att betjäna på båda nationalspråken bör förbättras. Det är endast på det sättet som den enskilda individen kan drunka sig trygg i att verkligen kunna få de språkliga rättigheterna tillgodosedda.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u105	Madam President! The report is comprehensive and contains much important but also worrying information. It probably comes as no surprise to many of us that there is a culture in Finland where diversity is not regarded as good, and this culture seems to have been washed up in the Finnish language debate as well. Sadly, I read that, for example, Swedish-speaking people under the age of 30 say that they are even afraid to use their own mother tongue in certain situations, such as public transport. This is the climate in our society at the moment. It is also worrying that, according to estimates, people do not believe that this situation will improve in the coming years, which, of course, also reflects the pessimistic climate. It can be seen that there is still a need to take account of the diversity of languages in the services and perhaps to carry out a cleansing education and discussion of values in society in general, so that we can overcome these prejudices, which are clearly still linked to language issues. It is also worth noting that many Finnish-speaking respondents have also noticed this phenomenon and feel that the climate of language policy has tightened in this country. I would like the Minister to pay attention to this, and I wonder what means we could then have in order to improve the current situation, and I am sure that, starting with early childhood education, we should try to familiarise people with our national languages, including other languages, and break down the prejudices that people have. It is a long-term work and requires generations to be involved, but I think it is worth paying particular attention to this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u106	Mr President! The situation of how Finnish language conditions have changed must also be noted as a matter of priority. The population is growing steadily, but the proportion of both Finnish and Swedish speakers in the population has fallen in recent years, so it is clear that we are diversifying in language policy in this respect. On the other hand, of course, the basic situation is that, in accordance with the Constitution, we have two national languages and they have a special status and must be respected. I agree with Mrs Parviainen on this point that it is extremely worrying if we have linguistic groups who are afraid to use their own language in public, for example. Of course, it raises great questions as to how this positive atmosphere of attitude really needs to be developed. It must be possible to speak of matters in their proper names and to have a critical debate, to have different opinions, but it must not lead to any kind of hostility. It was pointed out that it has been difficult to recruit staff, especially in Swedish. This, of course, raises the critical question that, when we still have the whole population, the Swedish teaching of all levels of education, how can there be such a bad situation that we do not really get skilled people, even though the mass itself should be. Is there something wrong with teaching or where, but this too needs to be considered. On the other hand, I do not like the idea that only those who speak the language as their mother tongue would be competent enough. That too cannot be an appropriate definition, but it must also be possible to use people who have studied its language and are at an adequate level in it. On the other hand, the role of the Finnish language is not much addressed here, which would also be important to address in the context that universities, for example, can decide on studies in a language other than the language of education and examination, i.e. the English language, for example, has taken over a great deal of research and master's education, and the position of Finnish and Swedish has been weakened at this point. This is worrying in terms of the vitality of these languages. We must continue to be able to carry out research and degrees in Finnish and Swedish, in our national languages.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u107	Mr President! The situation in sign language has been quite well addressed in this government report in the sense that the report has described many problems in the implementation of equal rights for sign language speakers. As the Minister said, sign language is their own language group, and this is still not remembered. It is sad that there is so much attitude that if a person is able to read or write in Finnish, the use of sign language could be reduced or would not be necessary. This cannot be the case, because Finnish is always a foreign language to a deaf person. Language also creates culture, which is why a child living in a bilingual family should be entitled to the teaching of both mother tongues. At present, in many municipalities there is a situation where children who hear deaf parents do not receive instruction in their second language, that is, that sign language. Is the Minister aware of this and what can be done about it? Then the child will not be able to enter the culture of the deaf, the culture of sign language if he does not receive instruction in sign language, because sign language is constantly evolving and it is also important that it acquires additional capacity in addition to speech or sign, in addition to what is at home. Then I would like to raise another specific question about this report: the situation of people with memory problems. Sign language, especially plain language, would be useful for a memory sick person, but this issue is currently not recognised and exploited very badly in elderly services, for example. People with memory disorders usually do not receive interpretation services. I am not sure whether this issue is even generally recognised in our society and whether, for example, Kela will provide: [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u110	Madam President! That was a short time ago when I met representatives of the Society of Mental Injury and we had discussions on this issue of plain language and how much it is needed in Finland. It is particularly needed by people with disabilities, immigrants and the elderly, and there are about 650,000 people who need it. A clear language is needed, especially in the organisation of services and in the fulfilment of applications, for example, to be properly completed and properly done and to understand what has been asked. From that I read that Kela has drawn attention to the matter, but their message was that this Clear Centre has a great lack of resources, precisely to be able to give enough of that clear-language explanation and to teach and see that the applications have been made correctly. I wonder how this service could then be developed and taken forward, and how to get more staff there to prepare for being able to do so in this plain language in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u111	Madam President! In fact, the minister also went over the situation of the Saami. The Sámi languages are also our national languages, and it is quite difficult for the Sámi population to drift away from the Sámi region as well, and the legislation actually mainly concerns the Sámi region. It is worrying that as many as 75% of Sámi children under the age of ten live outside the Sámi region, and this, of course, puts their native language learning in a challenging situation. That is why it would have been great if the Minister for Education, for example, could have been here too, because, for us, safeguarding the Sámi languages is an extremely important issue in terms of the possibilities and survival of the indigenous people and the conditions for living at all. In particular, all matters relating to learning materials are still in very difficult and old-fashioned forms. We should be much more able to use e-learning methods, and this would also make it possible to bring them more strongly to the Sami people living outside the Sámi region. But then there is also the fact that in that Sami region we compete in the international world for good talent, and you can only guess how Finnish Sámi-speaking Finns apply to work for Norway when wages are tougher and better. We should be able to do something about this so that we can also preserve people and experts there in the Sámi region. It can be seen, for example, in mental health services and certain specific services. It is important that SámiSoster's funding has been made for a long time, but it is not enough, but rather greater means, and that is why it was great that the government in the last year's budget:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u112	Mr President, värderade talman! In my opinion, Mr Elo here drew attention to an important issue: why do Finnish-speaking people not learn Swedish even if they are allowed to read it at school? In my opinion, the government has done a good job in the sense that the government has brought forward language teaching in different municipalities, in projects. I genuinely believe that this is the right way to move forward: to advance, to learn different languages through song and play. Then I am also very pleased that the first steps have been taken towards a strategy for the national languages, and this would be extremely important because it should include all these different measures, which can be done in order to have the courage to speak more. And then I would also like to remind you that Finnish-Swedish sign language is an endangered language according to UN standards. We have not had a school in Finland for sign language children in Finland for 30 years. In other words, if you want to attend a school in sign language, the child will have to move to Sweden, and the Finnish-Swedish Sign Language interpreters have not been trained for 30 years. Now we have taken the first steps in that direction too, but there is a lot of work to be done to save the Finnish-Swedish sign language.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u113	Mr President! I will mention the English status as an administrative language. Hypo, Service Trade Union, Construction Industry, Building Information Foundation, SAK and Sitra have made a report on strengthening the international competitiveness of the Helsinki region, suggesting that the English language will be made official and easy to use in the metropolitan area. In my home town of Espoo, the council decided on this, and I also voted in favour of this being done in the city strategy. In a city like us, it is very understandable to think that there are a lot of international residents and large companies with a lot of international trade and exports. But what worries me here, on the other hand, is that this possibility of using English does, in my view, weaken the desire to learn our national languages in the longer term. And then we should also think about the time when staff, especially foreign-language staff, could wish to learn its Finnish or Swedish language and how to support it. In other words, if you live longer in this country, you should learn the national languages. There are advantages here, but when you really think of this language status, our national languages, I would also be cautious in this regard. So let's move on, let's not be the brake on progress here. The English language also has its own meaning and position in international trade and internationalism, but it also takes care of the strong position of Finnish and Swedish languages, our national languages, as a small country and as a small nation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u114	Mr President! I would also like more attention to be paid to the accessibility and accessibility of the digital environment. It is mentioned here. But the development of digital services also shows the same attitude in many places, so I have heard that sign language is not needed when it contains the text in Finnish. In very few places, even the most important things in those digital environments are also in sign language, even if it is equal. For example, not all of us deaf know Finnish properly, and that sign language would be absolutely absolute to them. Digital services should also be increasingly used in plain language, because that would be good for all of us. It would be good for each of us to visit, for example, Kela's instructions or any official instructions. I would argue that it might be a little difficult for those in this Chamber to understand the first reading of everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u115	Madam President! Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen took the words out of my mouth. I would also draw attention to the fact that digitalisation enables us to increase linguistic rights in Finland quite easily and cost-effectively, but there is a lot of work to be done. For example, according to this survey, only 5 per cent of Swedish-speaking people felt that they could visit the state’s online services in their native language. It's about something if the number is so small that it's going to disappear. Above all, when we talk about digital services, I would also like to emphasise the clear language that would serve not only the learners but also the immigrants, the seniors and the entire population, so that we could get our services as concisely and clearly as possible and that information would be genuinely available to all. This is what Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen referred to. It would therefore be sensible to develop the standards that we use to standardise the content of public online services, for example, in such a way that their accessibility is more widely understood. Accessibility is not just technology and technology, but it is also that the language we produce and do is as clear and understandable as possible, and I think there is a great deal to be done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u116	And Minister Häkkänen will answer, three minutes at the most, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u117	Thank you, Speaker! Thank you for a good debate. Here came a number of different aspects of this language report, comments that certainly need to be further processed and discussed more precisely in the committees. First of all, this language climate as a big issue is certainly one that touches Finland quite extensively. When it comes to internationalisation, taking people to work here or on other grounds, this atmosphere must be made more positive for strangers at all. Of course, one of the biggest concerns is that Finland also competes for international high-class experts. The more the economy becomes an innovation-driven economy, the more the top-class experts are needed, and they have very high standards and criteria for what kind of environment they bring, for example, their families. This has now appeared in various forums around the world as a small challenge in many countries, not just in Finland, but we must have an attractive environment, especially in the capital region, where people from a foreign language area are viewed as warm and warm as possible. Finnish language teaching and research at universities. The next language report, as I recall, deals with the education sector, and on this subject a number of researchers have approached me when I have visited universities. Of course, we must internationalise our science field, but then we must also be careful not, for example, not to make unnecessary additional work so that things are done in English simply for the sake of the English language, because the main function must be there for research and science. On the other hand, there are also features in which purely national research and science, which do not have a strong national interface, are also carried out in English. Among other things, there is a great deal of this in law about our national legal system. Good comments came from here on the increase in plain-language services. The Department of Justice agrees with this. In the future, more and more of these must be offered to all the people, and certainly also to the parliamentarians. The right of deaf parents, hearing children to sign language: now I have to say that the minister has this lack of knowledge, but I will provide information on the current problems and the state of legislation. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u118	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u119	Mr President! My draft law in the referral debate amending Chapter 3 of the Employment Contracts Act concerns the limitation of non-compete agreements in the employment contract. This may sound a little technical, but the idea is actually very simple. The aim is to improve labour mobility and improve the functioning of the labour market. Non-compete agreements may therefore restrict the right of an employee to enter into an employment contract after the termination of an employment relationship with an employer who is considered to be a competitor. The use of non-compete clauses in employment contracts has become so widespread in recent years — so widespread that according to the Finnish Economies, a non-compete clause is already being drawn up for every other contract of employment as an expert or supervisor. The reason for the high frequency and rapid increase in the number of non-competes is that employers do not currently have any risk of increasing the non-compete clause even if in all contracts of employment, because there are currently no obligations for the employer to add the condition. Employers therefore have no motivation to assess when these non-compete agreements are genuinely necessary. The aim of the amendment is therefore to guide employers to exercise judgement on when there are genuine grounds for a ban on competition that are required by the law. Furthermore, the amendment would give the employer the right to exempt an employee from a unilateral non-compete agreement if it proves unnecessary after its conclusion. In the amendment of the law, I propose that the employer should be liable in situations where a non-compete clause is in place. Mr President! One of the main reasons for the legislative amendment I have tabled is that the free movement of labour and the functioning of the labour market should be improved. There is already a very rigid labour market in Finland, and they are further stiffened by unnecessary bans on competition. International studies have concluded that bans on competition cause more harm to the market than benefits, even if they undoubtedly do have benefits. Restricting non-compete agreements would increase labour mobility, the free movement of labour in the labour market. Mobility of skilled labour would bring a wide range of benefits. It is in the interests of society as a whole that the labour market functions smoothly. Another important aspect of limiting non-compete agreements is the clarification of the rules of the game by reducing unnecessary restrictions and overlaps. In some employment contracts, the prohibitions of competition are, of course, fully justified and my legislative initiative is not intended to prohibit the use of non-compete clauses. The aim is simply to make use of the employer's discretion to impose non-compete measures, with the aim of reducing the use of unnecessary non-compete measures. In its present form, the law does not provide a sufficiently clear definition of when sufficient grounds for a prohibition of competition are met. Even non-compete agreements, which will eventually be nullified at different legal levels, will freeze the labour market for nothing. There is a great deal of experience in how workers, in fear of sanctions, are afraid to go to work in their own field or to work in line with their own skills and to move forward in their careers. In this case, our expertise is not in the best possible use. Since the employer is not subject to any obligation to include a non-compete clause in the contract of employment, the employer does not really have any reason or motivation to exercise discretion in their application. In fact, in some areas, bans on competition have become almost automation in employment contracts. In particular, it is in expert and supervisory positions that employment contracts have almost a standard non-compete clause in all employment contracts without carrying out a task-specific assessment, which would be the purpose of the law. The amendment of the rules of the game would also be supported by the fact that, at the moment in the non-compete agreement, both restrictions and sanctions come entirely to the worker, i.e. an employee who is already at a disadvantage when concluding a contract of employment from his negotiating position, bears all the risks associated with these non-compete clauses. Mr President! A non-compete agreement should not be confused with non-disclosure agreements. I strongly believe that the protection of business secrets must be strong. In most cases, however, a confidentiality agreement alone would be sufficient to cover the need to protect commercial secrecy and a non-compete agreement would, as it were, be used in vain. The aim is therefore to dismantle these overlaps and unnecessary non-compete agreements in places where they are not needed. However, my legislative initiative will not prevent the use of non-compete clauses in employment contracts. It would only increase the consideration of the fact that the conclusion of a non-compete agreement and its termination after the employment relationship are really, genuinely necessary. Mr President! I believe that this reform would also benefit businesses, because a functioning labour market is in the interests of society as a whole. As the workforce moves more freely, it is easier for companies to recruit experts to work. According to studies, companies currently face difficulties in finding and recruiting experts, particularly in those professions where non-compete agreements are very typical and widespread. From the point of view of SMEs and growth companies in particular, it is bad if the necessary skills are not available on the market and the workforce is not mobile. The positive aspect of this proposal is also that this legislative initiative should lead to the development of legislation in which companies are encouraged to look after the well-being of their employees, to look after their staff and to compete with their experts by means of positive measures, not negative, restrictive agreements, but positive measures. Well-being at work is known to have an impact on the productivity of work, so, from that point of view too, more incentives and fewer restrictions and sanctions are needed in the labour market. Mr President! We are not alone in Finland with these matters and considerations. In international comparisons, a number of countries have already made the necessary changes in the direction of a more liberal labour market. In Denmark and Norway, for example, the antitrust legislation has already been updated along the lines of my legislative initiative. In these countries, it was precisely because the free movement of workers contributes to the growth of the economy and labour productivity that legal changes were justified. In California, for example, bans on competition are completely prohibited, as their abolition and prohibition have been found to be more beneficial and bring more benefits than the use of bans on competition. Mr President! In summary, the benefits of this legislative amendment proposed by my bill are more effective labour markets, clearer rules of play and the elimination of unnecessary restrictions and duplications. This change would benefit all parties: workers, employers and society as a whole. I am convinced that with the legislative amendment that I have proposed, we will be able to correct a situation that is unnecessarily rigidising our labour market. I always welcome changes towards a more functional market. I am prepared to support proposals that make the labour market more flexible, and this is one of them. This is what many others think, because this bill has raised a delightfully positive debate and attention in the media and interest across party boundaries here in Parliament, and I have received a lot of positive feedback from people whose daily lives and working lives are affected and restricted by these current non-compete agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u120	Mr President! This bill by Mr Sirén is very well-founded and worthy of support, and it is certainly worthy of further work in this House, and I would hope that the committee will do so in its own time. That is the essence of the problem in this area that is linked precisely to what Sirén here well described as the fact that these non-compete agreements have become such as to be concluded just in case. They are no longer done so much because there is a direct conflict of interest between the employer and the employee, who then leaves and is in a position to take something with him, but they are done just in case something happens. This has, of course, led to the fact that, when they are done just in case, they also have characteristics that restrict the functioning of the labour market and the mobility of workers. Certainly at this time, when we have a lot of talk about labour shortages as well as about the need for talent for new jobs, all of these do hamper this economic development of ours. All in all, it would make sense for us to now make changes that would allow us to have a slightly healthier culture. There are certainly also situations in which non-compete agreements are quite appropriate, but perhaps there is no reason to do this, just in case, for example, to do so, so that it would be good for us to work together to find ways of achieving a slightly healthier culture. As mentioned above by the representative, international developments are on the way here, so Finland could well join this international wave, and in this way we would make the functioning of the labour market at least slightly better, and this would also be in the interests of workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-15-ps-7.u121	Mr President! It is exactly as Mr Räsänen said. I could also make it quite clear that there are situations in which non-compete agreements are highly justified. For example, in management contracts there is almost without exception a ban on competition, and almost without exception there are very good and legitimate reasons for it, but now there is a general practice in which a non-compete clause is automatically found in employment contracts, even in cases where the criteria are highly questionable or do not exist at all. Business and professional secrets must certainly be safeguarded, but these interests can be safeguarded and protected by other means, not by a non-compete clause.
