ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u2	Social Democratic Parliament Group, representative Salonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u3	Mr President! I will start with a young person’s own Sitat: ‘There is often a feeling that there is no need for good and no one cares,that there is no need to care about This young man is not alone in his thoughts. Yesterday YLE reported that over 90,000 Finnish children under 13 years of age suffer from mental health problems. This is a really stopping number. Fortunately, the majority of young people are doing well, but it is particularly important to talk about those who urgently need help, about these 90,000 children. We must not make invisible those who already feel invisible, for invisibility hurts and makes you sick. Minister Saarikko, are you ready to see these young people? Is our legislation up to date?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u4	Mr President! That meritful compilation of our top experts’ assessment of the health care district of children and young people’s mental health problems was a stopwarming reading. At the same time, however, on this subject, I wake up to the fact that none of the experts fully stated that direct nausea had increased, but rather the point and the way in which social and health services and the whole life of the child and the family are taking up these concerns. This case and the whole in front of children and young people's mental health issues created a belief that the policy chosen by the government is the right one. We are launching a major national mental health strategy, which hopefully acts as a continuation of all political work in Finland, regardless of the government base, that we as a nation dare
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u6	Mr President! We adults are responsible for the welfare of children and young people, including us here in this Chamber. We're talking about 90,000 children. We legislators have a special power to safeguard the future of children and young people. Action is needed to change the current situation. Therefore, the SDP has developed its own action programme to improve the mental health of children and young people. You did not quite answer the previous question, Minister Saarikko. Last summer you said that the mental health law will be reformed. You rightly pointed out that these children and young people must also get help at home and at school. This is precisely the kind of action that needs to be taken to improve the well-being of children. However, Minister Saarikko, these children and young people cannot wait. When will you bring the reform of the mental health law before Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u7	Mr President! Representative Salonen started with the right value-oriented aspect: the well-being of children and young people is the responsibility of adults. That is why it is also gratifying to note that more and more mothers and fathers want to seek help. Of course, the problem is if, as it were, the problems were so bad that we were faced with demanding psychiatric support services, and not yet when, for example, support for parenthood had already been helpful, for example, in solving very common ADHD or other problems in the everyday life of the family. Therefore, one answer is a much-encompassed family centre model, as it were, to counsel as its heart, bringing special services closer to the familiar basic family services. Mental health legislation is not coming to Parliament this season. Regrettably, the legislation was not so good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u8	Madam President! Experts have wanted to focus on the very reasons and consequences that make children worse. They have been concerned that the load of children has increased. Children react to the situation in their parents’ lives, unemployment, insecurity in their livelihoods, but children are also burdened by too large early childhood education groups and changing nurses. Primary schools and schools require skills that not all children have. This distresses and stresses more and more children, who feel that they cannot cope in the group or in school. So it is a matter of a very wide variety of pull-ups. There is no one solution to this, but there are things that we can influence. Now I ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen: since it has been clearly demonstrated here that large early childhood education groups and school groups have a damaging effect on children and burden the child, can we not together decide that we should reduce children's day care groups and school groups?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u9	Mr President! Thank you for the fact that an important issue will be on the table during this Question Time. I agree with you, Mr Kiljunen, that there is certainly no one solution when it comes to how to help all children and families, and above all those families and children who are struggling from weaker points of view and where parenthood needs more support, and where the child, for example, has special needs. In Finland, we have a lot of professional skills to identify the different backgrounds and problems of children and also to make visible the need for help. And it is also a good solution that the threshold for seeking help has been lowered. The Government has set aside an additional EUR 10 million for next year's budget to reduce group sizes in day-care centres that operate in the most challenging areas and where there is a greater need for it. They can now be tackled by reducing group sizes and increasing support for professionals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u10	Madam President! In addition to large groups of kindergartens and school classes, self-guidance, i.e. the fact that students and schoolchildren have to do tasks on their own, to seek answers, has proved to be a problem. How do you see that, Minister? Is there an answer? Is it right for students to be directed to do so many things on their own? And this message has also been especially received from high school students. So we miss the teacher's presence and the fact that someone really does. But I'd also like to ask you about this cutting. It also came up with yesterday’s news: more and more schoolchildren, very young, are cutting. In what way can we intervene in this matter in our society? What are the ways to do that? And do you have any idea whether this terrible phenomenon has increased, which is commonplace, at least on the basis of the messages?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u11	Mr President! There have been articles on the spread of the problem of cutting, and there is also a message from the teaching field that it is a wave-by-wave trend among young people, which is very serious and needs to be addressed immediately. It requires multi-professional student and student care. We have good practice in how to act in such situations, and adults bear responsibility and intervene in the first warning signals. Then to the second part of your question when you asked about the curriculum work: Today, the management of Finnish teacher education was gathered, and in practice teachers from the whole country were present. New curricula were discussed and also the somewhat mistaken notion that students and students would be required to be self-employed. Rather, it is the type of skill that is sought in teaching, in primary school, than in secondary school to teach and direct. But it is quite obvious that it is the teacher's responsibility to teach and bear the responsibility for the learning situation, and that every child
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u12	On this subject, mental health and young people, is also a question for the left-wing parliamentary group. Congressman Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u13	Mr President! Mental health problems also affect a large number of young adults, and it has been estimated that depression, for example, is an essential reason for many young adults to retire for disability. In the case of young adults in particular, the problem was that it takes too long to get access to services. For example, if a young adult decides to seek help for depression, he or she must first get an appointment at a health centre and then get a referral to a psychiatrist or a psychiatric nurse to get a diagnosis, after which it may take several months to replace Kela, for example, for rehabilitation psychotherapy. In the worst case, then, it can take up to a year from the moment a person decides to seek help, when he is properly in our service system. Mr Saarikko, what kind of plans does the government have to speed up access to mental health services?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u14	Mr President! One of the main priorities of this national mental health strategy is the provision of services for children and young people. It is linked to a landscape in which social and health services will be organised in a new way, and to a world in which I believe there is broad support for the reformed mental health legislation, which also includes substance abuse care issues, and that legislation is a goal in which social and health services genuinely run as a whole. This target group you mentioned was also one of the main reasons why the government wanted a separate solution for the Student Health Foundation and even extended it from university students to polytechnic students, so it wanted it to be equal to all students, precisely because this special competence of the FSHS, the Student Health Foundation, is linked to mental health services and their up-to-date availability. Sami Pirkola, Professor of Social Psychiatry
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u15	Mr President! This is, of course, gratifying, but it is also worth noting that not all young adults are included in student health care services, and that is why we must also make the public service chain work better. Another problem is the availability of psychotherapy, especially for low incomes, as is often the case with young adults. Although Kela reimburses a large part of the costs of rehabilitation psychotherapy, these responsibilities, which remain, are easily too high, especially for low incomes. The Left Alliance has also become aware of cases where Kela does not replace and take into account psychotherapy’s own responsibility shares in granting income support, for example. So, Minister Saarikko, how do you intend to improve the availability of psychotherapy, especially for young adults and low incomes? And this Kela solution for income support, should it take account of these own funds or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u16	Mr President! Psychotherapy is a well-tested form of treatment and is also widely used in Finland. However, as described in the question, we need to identify the chain at the end of which is the decision on Kela’s rehabilitation psychotherapy decision. It is a very demanding and heavy and demanding form of services, and in so far as this two separate channels model has also led to Kela’s long-term, demanding rehabilitation psychotherapy cycles ending up with those who could have been helped more quickly by the municipality’s own decision on medical psychotherapy, which can also be decided by its own social welfare and health care municipality. But since the costs go to two different laurels, to the municipality of residence or to Kela, we recognize that there is also a ball of costs here. And when you rightly referred to the treatment chains in your question, I have identified this point as one, and that is why I think that, in terms of funding, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u17	Mr President! An hour with a psychologist a week won't help if all the hours a week are full of anxiety. Young people struggling with mental health problems must not be left alone with their problems. Help must be close and easily accessible. As Mr Salonen said, at the beginning of October the SDP published a programme of measures to improve the mental health situation of children and young people, and this working group was led by 18-year-old Sara Holapa. We propose, among other things, that low-threshold services should be developed in such a way that family centres, school and student health care and youth services include these low-threshold services, and the availability of low-threshold online and mobile services must be secured and increased. Minister Saarikko, what do you think of these proposals, and have you been familiar with this programme of measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u18	Mr President! I am delighted that the Social Democrats are on the line of the Sipilä Government. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u19	Mr President! The mental health problems of children and young people and their growth are truly alarming, and that is something that we must tackle together. It is very important that we ensure sufficient resources. Now the problems and the number of referrals have increased, but the resources have not increased in the same proportion, and this absolutely needs to be corrected. There is also a different situation in different parts of the country, and there are clearly areas where access to treatment is much more difficult, and this should not be the case. There was much talk here about how important it is to intervene as early as possible. For example, early childhood education is a place that is able to support families and there would be an opportunity to tackle problems in good time. However, on our educational path early childhood education is the only place where there are no permanent psychological services or curator services. Does the government have the will to bring these services permanently into early childhood education as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u20	Mr President! Last summer, Parliament adopted a new law on early childhood education, emphasising and underlining the child’s best interests and the priority of the child’s interests, and it brought many improvements to the future of early childhood education and the quality of early childhood education. The next phase of the law is already on the way and is on the way, and we are preparing to set up a working group to consider these support packages, that what structures are wise to provide more support for children in need of special support, so that it can focus on assistance and support as early as possible, in order to identify, for example, learning problems or learning difficulties in advance, and in order to enable the day-care centre to support parenthood more strongly in the future and to direct it to sources of assistance, for example, a family centre or a maternity clinic, if the family needs more support in a comprehensive way. So the next phase is already starting and coming, and the professionals are preparing this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u21	Mr President, värderade talman! FinFam is running a campaign that states that every fourth child is child-related. This means that every fourth child lives in a family where a parent has mental health or substance abuse problems. If the family or child does not get help in this situation, it usually leads to the child becoming the one caring for his or her parents or parents and his or her family and the whole of his or her daily life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u22	Mr President! I think it is a good thing for Finland in 2018 that the main topic of discussion of the well-being of our citizens also concerns mental health. It is an excellent phenomenon that we recognize that a nation that has achieved much good is deficient in the fact that we have not dared enough to speak, and too often mental health problems, prolonged or shorter periods, have been hidden, silent or difficult topics. That is my first answer: when people dare to talk about things, then perhaps someone dares to intervene. Above all, the child as a relative of an adult with mental health problems or the child’s own problems remind us that the low birth rate discussed here many times leads to the fact that no child could afford to be lost when so many fewer children are born. Every single one is needed to build this future in Finland. FinFami as a listed organisation
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u23	Madam President! Minister Saarikko raised a very important issue: there are historically few children born in Finland. In your earlier speech, you also made a good point about the importance of parental support. A child needs his parents not only during childhood but also during puberty. It is important that we have a network in society that helps when it is needed, but it is most important that we do such things that we can prevent the nausea of families, children and young people. And this is where the issue of working life expands. Minister, what you see is that we can do to make workplace flexibility, part-time work more widespread
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u27	Mr President! It is good to recognise that when we talk about mental health problems, we are not talking about some marginal group that many indicators are less well-off in society, even from the point of view of the economy or of working life, but also about a group that we like to call society 'good'. Even such homes may have nausea, much nausea, just in the midst of life’s peak years. I think that the first part of your question was essential in that we are used to discussing childhood support quite much and rightly for the early years, but the critical phase, the joint phase, is, for example, between upper secondary school and secondary school, the fact that parents do not retreat from their educational responsibilities and support for young people, and that in the whirlwind of working life, it would be time for their children to ask how you are doing, so that they can make sure that things are well and that mental health problems do not get worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u28	Mr President! There's no health without mental health. When we talk about children and their mental health, we talk about perhaps one of the most important things for Finland’s future. We have a lot of good things done in child and family services, but we have a systematic error in the fact that very often, when we treat, for example, an adult with substance abuse problems or mental health problems, we forget that he may be older. After the child has been taken into care, very often the family is deprived of support, and this has also been shown in its report by the National Audit Office. My question is: what can we still do during this parliamentary term to support parenthood? If we are talking about a child, we must always talk about parents, and parents are the responsible and stronger bearers who make sure that the child is well. What more could we do in this parliamentary term to take into account the fact that the child has parents and support that parenting?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u29	Mr President! This question is wide-ranging and important and perhaps reminds us of the same theme throughout this debate: how would a person and his close circle be a whole in our services? And over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over Finland formally offers a lot of good, but whether the services meet and look at the whole and in the same direction. A single successful example of looking at the whole is the service in which I know that Mr Sarkomaa and many others, including Vice-Presidents, have done a good job in relation to the work on substance abusers in society. In many years, Parliament has wanted to allocate additional resources to this. We have had excellent research as a result of the fact that a woman with substance abuse problems, a future mother, has also been confronted with its motherhood and the care of a small baby, and I am glad that this government also decided to support directly the rehabilitation of substance abuse mothers. It is the result of the long work of many persistent parliamentarians, which is thanks to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u30	Mr President! A little bit of this earlier broke in my ear because it is important that these things are discussed. However, I would like to appeal to the fact that it is important not only to talk about these matters, but also to act. This is a very serious problem. Think of it, for goodness' sake: one in five children or young people, at their worst one in four children or young people, suffers from mental health problems. It is not enough to explain that here we are trying to fight the service network to improve. You can't bury everything under the mud. After all, the mental health law fell in the ministry because of the fact that the preparation failed. And I don't think this came as a surprise to the Minister at all. Now we are in a situation where this cannot continue in such important matters. We have talked very much about the economic sustainability gap in this Chamber. How big is the sustainability gap that these children will continue to be?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u31	Mr President! Mr Kiuru's assessment of what happened to that particular important legislative reform was right and very regrettable in that respect. At the same time, of course, I recognize that it would always be easier to answer that this and this paragraph would change Finland. But unfortunately this is not the case — that is why a dullly sounding answer, which was also given to me by Professor of Social Psychiatry Sami Pirkola, whom I have invited to lead this reform work, this big strategic thinking about the importance of mental health. He states this, also referring to the figures you have mentioned: ‘There would be a mistake in interpreting pressure in the mental health services of care in Iraq as a mere manifestation of some kind,for there is a problem with the system which can So he too returns to the idea that we can find ways to help in time. And although it does not require a change in the section, I note that family centre work and the interface between early childhood education and social services is, for example, one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u32	Mr President! It was pointed out that the mental health law is not coming soon and, of course, the viewers and listeners are waiting for those concrete measures. A few weeks ago I went to Verso, the Mental Health Association, to see young people, and they, as well as the staff, were very concerned about the continuation of associations and association activities. They operate with a lot of betting resources and similar municipal grants, and there is a great deal of inequality here. Now I know that there are so-called ‘Christmas Gifts’in the committees,and I hope that these funds will be allocated to mental health work for young people,because this legislation,as well as the so-called ‘Christmas Gifts’,is losing many I would like to ask the Minister: could you, in particular, support in these decisions of the Committee on Finance, now that young people are being given help and support and the money they use to make it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u33	Mr President! Mr Meri, the divisions and the money you are talking about are in the hands of democracy and parliament, and I believe that you will make wise decisions in any case. Of course, I support all the work that will strengthen the early intervention of mental health problems and can also be pleased to see, in particular, that a great deal of money is being allocated to mental health organisations, particularly today, and municipalities will also support this work, for example, through the clubhouse activities of mental health and other mental health rehabilitation measures of different age groups. I would also like to supplement the answer to this question as to what is happening in the field. What is essential is how these future provinces will react and recognise this phenomenon of nausea in children and young people and the lameness of the service chain. I am delighted that in the negotiations with the provinces, in the preparatory discussions, the vast majority of the regions have made this point on their own initiative and have said that this will be a special area, that is, a psychiatrist, as a service that is intended to be brought to the basic side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u34	Mr President! As has already been said many times here, mental health problems have increased, or at least more often they are being sought for help. Mental health problems, anxiety and depression may no longer be such a huge taboo in our society, and I consider it a very good thing that children and young people and we adults can and can seek help. What we need to do is definitely to react with resources, respond to people's easier access to treatment, faster treatment, and also help. We must also be able to react in a preventive way, and I think it is extremely important, especially for young people. Teenagers and early youth have a lot of growing pains, which can also cause confusion, anxiety and depression. Minister Grahn-Laasonen: How do you see the situation in schools? You often hear that teachers often spend much more time than just teaching. How can we increase our psychiatric support to schools as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u35	Mr President! It has also been well said in this Chamber that it is also necessary for young people of adolescence to have that parenting and taking responsibility and setting limits. It creates a sense of security and supports growth and development, and schools can also contribute to the same task. We have curators in schools, psychologists to support the work of teachers, and there are also multi-professional contacts that can also guide young people to the need for help. In addition to that, we have low-threshold youth activities and a lot of hobby activities, but that is certainly also a question of many times from the moment, from the point of view of whether such skills are lacking, to be identified. For example, this problem of cutting was mentioned earlier, that can you identify whether you can react, face a young person, raise issues, and that is where we will certainly have a place for development, for example through the continuing training of teachers. But in the case of multi-professional cooperation, I do see that there is a solution that can bring more resources to this work even in the short term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u36	Mr President! I'm sorry about the news that the law is no longer coming to Parliament. We would have needed a reform of the mental health law. Of course, the strategy is important, but these young people are already adults at the stage of its implementation. Unfortunately, it won't help them any more. Fortunately, however, we did not acknowledge this important point now by the fact that the majority of young people are doing well. Although that is a good thing, it is very important that we dare to talk about the young people who need help. We have pointed out that the number of consignments has increased and the amount of resources has remained the same. This cannot be the case in the future. We have also heard from professionals that they adhere to the treatment guarantee, but for the first time after treatment there may be a long break. This is untenable. What we can do now quickly to fill the gaps that will be left with the reform of the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u37	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to comment once again on the lack of legislation you have raised. The opposition, like the whole of Parliament, has called for good legislation, and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also openly reported a huge workload. These two factors also contributed to my assessment that I want to bring in legislation that is certainly better for people with mental health problems and patients. I am sorry that I too would have liked to have brought that law but the realities were met in the preparation. As regards what we can do: For years, structures have been discussed in Finland at both regional, municipal, hospital district and parliamentary level. That big solution still keeps you waiting. I am quite sure that one of the solutions here too, along the mental health service chain, is that the responsibilities of basic social services and health care and special care will become shared. It is the best way to influence that care chain. We can't promise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u38	Next question, the Finnish Parliament Group, Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u39	Mr President! Finland is adopting the GCM immigration agreement in Marrakesh, Africa, in December. There is no consensus on the adoption of the agreement; the Finns voted against the agreement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The number of countries exiting from this document is increasing day by day. Last night, the Italian Government announced that it would not send a representative to Morocco to approve the Global Compact. Prior to this agreement, the USA, Australia, Israel, Austria, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland and Bulgaria have left. By accepting the agreement, Finland places itself in those countries which, as a conscious political choice, want to add to the numerous problems of immigration. The agreement is not legally binding, but it is clear that it will have an impact on the political system, when it is customary for Finland to treat nonlegally binding agreements as a slave,as we noted with this voluntary burden-sharing mechanism — mainly Finland’s compliance [ Speaker knocks]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u40	Madam President! I wonder what the offer is this time for the Finnish people's Day. In the European Parliament, Jussi Halla-aho opposed this. Did his words not work, did the message not come through, or was it not taken into account when, in June, your representatives in the Administrative Committee and in the Grand Committee accepted this because they did not object?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u45	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u46	Mr President! Nonsense, Minister Soini. The matter is still pending. The Finns Party voted against the adoption of this agreement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Tomorrow, the matter will be dealt with in the Administrative Committee. Either we accept the agreement or we do not accept it. The fact that you did not bring it into the public debate at the plenary session of Parliament is a figure of its own — it was simply notified by an e-letter. We are opposed to this agreement, and Europe is clearly divided into those countries that want to protect its citizens from harmful immigration and those who want to increase problems. Have you, Minister, read this agreement? It mentions 86 times the words ‘land commitments’,for example,‘land commitments’to ensure that our migrant status is ensured without any concern for their access to It is also the case that ‘the exclusion of the categories of These all increase attractiveness, i.e. unjustified asylum applications [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u47	Madam President! Once again: Halla-aho opposed, in June the Finns accepted, now they
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u51	Mr President! This immigration agreement is, as was heard, on the agenda of the Administrative Committee, that the last word has not yet been said, but that is why I would like to ask the corresponding minister. From Soin, your view: should the acceptance of this agreement, or the most compact, increase or reduce the amount of harmful immigration in Finland? If your answer is that you will not influence one direction or the other or you do not know what the effect of this is, then I ask: Why in which kind of Finland then must even go along with it, as more and more Western powers, and Austria too,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u52	You asked for my opinion. I will tell you what you have done as Chairman of the Administrative Committee:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u55	Mr President! Now, Minister Soini, it's the same deal. There has been no other agreement approved in the summer, and now we have the same agreement, and the matter will continue to be dealt with. It will continue until it becomes a final decision, and tomorrow the matter will indeed be dealt with in the Administrative Committee. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we voted against the adoption of this agreement. Furthermore, in the case of this agreement, progress and implementation of this agreement will be examined at local and global level every four years. So what does the minister think in this agreement that Finland is not committed to?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u56	Madam President! When you go back to this committee all the time, I have to tell you what has happened there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u65	Next question, the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u66	President! Yesterday, Finland received a very questionable position in the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. According to it, Finland is considered to be the most racist of all EU countries. More than half of people from African background interviewed in Finland reported having experienced racist harassment, such as offensive gestures, comments or threats. In Finland, black people have also experienced much more racist violence than in other EU countries studied. A year ago, Finland turned out to be one of the most discriminatory countries in Europe in a study by the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights. These are very shocking results. The Government has repeatedly declared its objective of reducing the so-called “tractive factors”. It seems that this objective has already been far too successful. This cannot continue. What concrete measures does the government intend to take to eradicate racism from Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u67	Mr President! Thank you for the important question in itself; yes, it is a serious message to our whole society that we repeatedly come up at the forefront of hate crimes and hate speech in Europe. Indeed, unfortunately, a questionable reputation came from a report published yesterday. And it is quite fierce that 300 of the approximately 500 African immigrants interviewed in Finland say that they have experienced racist discrimination in their lives, and this should not be the case in the future. Our own hate crime investigation, an annual one, was also completed at the Police College on just the 26th, and there is a slight decrease compared to the previous year. However, there is a need to take action, and together with the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Education and Culture, we have set up a study group which, with a rapid view, is looking at measures — education and culture also because these are often problems for schoolchildren and young people alike. And we're already on the side of the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u68	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u69	Mr President! Human rights are not just a matter of opinion; they require special protection and measures for public authorities. In 2016, the Ministry of Education and Culture launched a Meaningful Finland action programme. Its aim is to prevent hate speech and racism and promote social inclusion. The programme includes 10 measures, including training of teaching staff, youth work, physical activity and religious dialogue. I would like to ask the Honourable Government, the Minister responsible: how has this programme been implemented, how is it monitored and are you now going to strengthen its implementation following this very unfortunate and shocking study that we have heard yesterday?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u70	Mr President! Indeed, we reacted quickly when 2015, when a lot of asylum seekers came to Finland and there was a lot of hate speech and also racist acts against asylum seekers and other immigrants and racist behaviour. And it is quite intolerable that in Finland in 2018 there will be such readings of the study, we must be able to do better, we must be able to respect all people regardless of their background and let them live in peace here in Finland. And this Meaningful Finland action programme has started well. That's what got the whole sector into it. It contained a wealth of concrete measures which have already been implemented, including part of teacher training, as part of teacher training priorities. The new form of support for religious dialogue is well underway, and a great deal has also been done in the NGO field. And now, as the latest thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u71	Mr President! This is a truly shocking survey: 63 per cent of black people have experienced racism in Finland over five years — 63 per cent. It's a really, really big number. In other words, according to the study, Finland is now gaining the reputation of the most racist country in the EU, which is certainly not good for us. It's pretty shameful. This also has to do with these images that many people are building in this Chamber. We have just heard this debate, which is constantly saying that we are dealing with some form of harmful immigration, normalising these concepts. It's really, really dangerous. For example, you might want to consider: Even in this Chamber, what does he say? It's affecting my imagination. I would like to remind you that this is a country in which the Nazis continue to march on the streets despite the judgment of justice. This is a country where the fundamental rights of asylum seekers have been reduced. This is a country in which the government continues to implement a blubbering immigration policy. This is a country where even a congressman can experience racism in this house. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u72	Mr President! Yes, these research results are a serious message about the Finnish society and the problem we have among us, and I can say here that all people belong to this country: Finns, regardless of the colour of their skin, religion, belonging to a minority. Everyone belongs in this country and deserves full equal treatment: no racism, no hate speech, no violence. Human rights belong to everyone in this country. This is the sacred principle of Finnish society, and I would like everyone to take care of this. It is the schools, the jobs, the homes, the circle of friends, and that would be something we need to take care of and talk about together. But I think it was excellent to hear the answers of ministers about the measures taken by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education and Culture, all of which aim to eliminate and eradicate this type of behaviour in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u73	Mr President, ärade talman! Michael O’Flaherty, Director of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, is here today and tomorrow and has spoken about this report and has already discussed the state of human rights in Europe and Finland. This report, which in itself is very sad to read, also contains recommendations for Finland, and I would like to ask whether the government intends to implement these recommendations and whether it has been familiar with these recommendations, which, among other things, call on the government to draw up a programme of measures to combat racism during this term of government. We were just talking about children's mental health and resentment and well-being, and it is really strange that, while we are the happiest country in the world on some routes, we are still the most racist country in Europe. We don't have hate crimes either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u74	Mr President! I will meet the Director-General of the Fundamental Rights Agency, Michael O’Flaherty, tomorrow morning, and we will discuss these very recommendations. It must be self-evident in Finland that we have zero tolerance for racism, and that is the starting point of this government in everything, but measures must be taken. That is why this week, together with the Minister for Education and the Minister for Justice, we have appointed this working group chaired by Archbishop Emeritus Kari Mäkis, and of course the observations and recommendations of the European Agency for Fundamental Rights will also be used in this work. I also think it is quite remarkable what Mr Yanar said earlier in this Chamber that this Chamber also has its own responsibility for the culture of debate, on the one hand and on the other. Let's not incriminate anyone according to their background, ethnicity, or their aspirations. This does not mean that immigration, for example, must not, of course, be controlled, rule-based, but it does not make anyone more ethnic, background-based or problematic as a person. That would be wrong for these people. Everyone has the same dignity. Everyone legally resident in Finland is of equal value,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u75	Mr President! Racism and all forms of discrimination are, of course, reprehensible and, to a large extent, discrimination is also prohibited by law, in different situations it is prohibited. But instead, hate speech is not defined by law. In other words, angry speech is part of Finland’s constitutional freedom of expression in 2018. A person must be able to speak frankly. A person must be able to write directly on the Internet what he thinks, without fear of being taken into police surveillance for some shady reason or censored from there. It's wrong. You have to be able to speak frankly, and you can't be afraid to say that. According to the Criminal Code, there are already crimes of this kind that can be filled with false speech, such as illegal threats, defamation or incitement against the people. However,as you continue to use this term ‘hate speech’,sodetermined with the right once-in-a-kindness of what you mean by ‘ hate speech’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u76	Mr President! Hate crimes have been defined, and they can indeed be acts of violence, abuse, other discriminatory acts, but they can also be hate speech, which was also defined here by the representative, which then refers to incitement against the people, defamation or illegal threats. At the beginning of 2017, a national hate-talk investigation team was set up at the Helsinki Police Department to address the hate speech that is being punished, and the number of these hate-crime reports has increased. This is explained precisely by these hate crimes involving incitement, defamation or illegal threats against the people, which, logically, can also be called hate speech in a punishable sense. Of course, it is quite true that angry speech and opinions in themselves are always allowed when they do not focus on these matters, i.e. stigmatize the individual because of his background.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u77	Madam President! It is perhaps important to draw attention to the fact that the name of this study in question is Being black in the EU, which is specifically referred to as dark skin, which means that discrimination does not come out of nowhere either, but involves a huge history which must also be brought to this debate, and one must be aware of it. We must be aware of that everyday life and think about it extensively, not just about the prevention of racism, but about how people can move forward in this society and be involved. If we are currently looking at the Chamber of Parliament — we are at the heart of democracy — then this Chamber is still very monochrome, whether for us, for the media, for the public gallery or for the rest of the staff working in this house. And I personally think that these are important steps, goals in a society that genuinely wants to get rid of inequalities and discrimination, that we are increasing people's opportunities. What does that mean in education, working life, being a family, young, adult and old? In other words, there would be a need for a wide-ranging, comprehensive sampling and some kind of plan on how to prevent discrimination and racism at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u78	Mr President! Of course, this challenge extends to all professional groups, including public service systems: how can we ensure that people with different backgrounds are able to seek out in a variety of ways or that they can also be seen in places? But it is quite true and, unfortunately, it will also prove to be the truth if, on the basis of this study, you look at those countries where racism is rising against the people of particular African origin, that they are in fact those countries where there are no people from different backgrounds or traditions in such a visible place, so it is clearly also such a feeling of alienism. And as far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, I have myself initiated measures to focus attention on the fact that it would be natural to apply for a police profession from all the immigrant backgrounds, especially in the marketing of the Police College of Applied Sciences. It is important for the security of all of us to have equal trust in the police in all groups and to understand different cultures in the police. I hope this is one measure that can help.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u79	Next question, Swedish Parliament Group, representative Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u80	Irade the Talman! Slush kör nästa vecka igång i Helsingfors. Slush är en företagandets fest, en fest för den som vågar komma till Helsingfors i November, en fest för den som vågar vara företagare — för det är inte alltid en fest. Vi vet att det finns mycket att förbättra i just senmföretagarnas socialskydd.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u81	Mr President! First of all, this government has improved the social security of the entrepreneur and, as you know, it is precisely this improvement in income protection for the non-owner family member of the entrepreneur that is on the table. But as far as combined insurance is concerned, we also know that it was not an easy exercise, so to speak, but on the other hand I see that the work and studies done for it have not gone away. How much time this government and this Parliament have left to deal with these laws also has a reality. I believe that the work already carried out will have meaning and future, and let us also remember that it will also serve when it comes to the so-called major social reform at some point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u82	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry (MmVM 15/2018), the position on the report will now be decided. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mrs Kalmar, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u83	Madam President! The committee endorses the main thrust of the spatial data policy report and believes that they strengthen more general information policy guidelines. The committee draws attention to the fact that, under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, the first information policy report is to be submitted to Parliament in December 2018. The committee considers it important that the content of the reports should be coordinated. The report defines that all information with a location as one of its characteristics is spatial information. Location information includes information on buildings, offices, municipalities, nature reserves, weather, crime, accidents, radio coverage, location data on mobile phones and transport routes, and statistics, among others. Spatial data are integrated into all other information and the definition of data as spatial data does not change its other possibilities of use. In line with the report, the committee considers that the production of essential spatial data and related basic services is primarily a public service task, so that companies can carry out their own business and service production on the basis of them. In cases where information is generated in a decentralised manner by different authorities, there is a need for effective harmonisation of technical characteristics and quality. Although public administrations produce a significant share of spatial data and also make use of it in decision-making, companies play a key role in making use of it. In addition, many companies produce significant volumes of spatial data. It is important to streamline the use of information between authorities, companies and other end-users. The more smoothly the information can be shared, the more up-to-date the information can be made available. The committee drew attention to the fact that the security environment in society has changed. Internal and external security are increasingly intertwined. Spatial data play a major role in this. This change is also characterised by the speed and unpredictability of technological progress. As a result of the change in the security environment, it has also become possible to use cyber means to achieve political goals and to harm the essential infrastructure and other vital functions of society. When making and developing spatial data solutions, the overall safety model must be taken into account, covering all levels and bodies of society. The report does not address the general principles of limitation of access rights to spatial data and services or information policy. In this respect, the report considers that it is appropriate to outline them in a more general way in the preparation of information policy. In addition, the report examines the overall safety of society and the protection of personal data, mainly as regards spatial data. The report presents seven development measures and their areas of effectiveness. The committee has examined each development measure separately. For example, in emergency centre operations it is necessary to obtain the most accurate and correct location information, address information, so that the right kind of assistance can be sent to the location as quickly as possible. The committee draws attention to the fact that more than 140,000 conflicting addresses have been found in the various addresses used by the Emergency Response Centre Agency. The immediate resolution of these shortcomings is necessary and requires extensive and long-term cooperation between the various actors involved. Adequate location is also a prerequisite for the development of safe transport automation, for example. The requirements for the accuracy of location, real-time availability and data quality of autonomous transport are quite demanding, which should be taken into account in the implementation of the report, for example in the definition of spatial data. The exact location must be used throughout Finland. This also calls for investments in satellite services, especially in the Arctic. Satellite navigation and its development are essential for many of the key functions of society. In many industries, the three-dimensionality of spatial data is also important. The spatial data must be available to the safety authorities in all situations, up-to-date and consistent with all actors. Security authorities have specific needs for spatial data. The joint use of safety authorities should therefore be carried out by a common spatial data platform meeting specific requirements, which will form the basis for a common situation picture, for example, in all circumstances. The joint spatial data platform of the security authorities will improve the use of shared spatial data by the authorities and thus also the creation of a common situation picture. The most important thing is that the spatial data platform of the safety authorities must also include a review of the data coverage and quality assurance processes, so that users no longer have to do this separately, but the accuracy and quality of the data can be trusted. In addition, when the platform is implemented, it is necessary to determine which operators can be safely justified as users of the platform. National security of supply is a component of overall safety, the production of which is increasingly being carried out by companies classified as critical in particular. The content and availability of the spatial information needed by critical companies must be ensured. The development of cooperation between the ecosystem of spatial data and, more generally, between different actors and the modelling and dissemination of data in line with commonly agreed international standards is one of the key objectives of the report's measures. The more uniform the information is from their administrators, the more coherent and up-to-date it is available to users. In the digital environment, the state has been given a new role in promoting the emergence and development of digital cooperation models and environments. If necessary, the State will have to make further efforts in this regard. In many cases, companies naturally complement public sector activities and services with value added services. However, spatial data may be subject to restrictions, for example due to the owner’s data policy. Unwarranted restrictions imposed by owners must be addressed by legislation. The wide use of spatial data in various activities of society still presents considerable challenges, as spatial data is perceived to be too much of a competence area of a particular profession. Consciousness has not been spread in the desired way as part of all the development of activities. The committee is in a hurry to take action to make spatial information a genuinely national competitive factor. The spatial information policy must also be in line with other more general information policy measures. Currently, there is a data management law in preparation. It is a general law which creates a framework for the exploitation of administrative information. When implemented, the law also supports the use and management of spatial data. Public administration must have clear roles, tasks and responsibilities as defined in legislation in spatial information activities. The roles and responsibilities of municipalities and state organisations should also be clarified in order to avoid duplication of functions and promote interoperability and shared use. It is necessary to develop national legislation to ensure the interoperability of information produced by public authorities. However, when it comes to access to information, careful consideration must be given to limiting access rights to information from the perspective of total security of society, security of supply and protection of personal data. In addition to the requirements relating to the processing of personal data, the collection, storage and disclosure of spatial data must also take into account publicity and restrictions resulting from confidentiality regulation. In addition, the digital nature of spatial information systems requires ensuring cyber security and ensuring continuity of services. The most cost-effective way of doing this is through the construction of services. Mr President! The international review of the report is rather limited. There are only limited indications of internationality. A comprehensive analysis of international developments is needed and therefore proposals for measures are needed. Large international platforms can offer completely new opportunities or can be seen as a threat to national actors. In conclusion, the report provides a very good basis for further work on spatial data policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u84	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, of course, I would like to thank the committee very much for its extensive, thorough work on the spatial data policy report. As we did in the referral debate back then, we had a debate here which showed that there is a very special interest among the representatives, among the whole Parliament, and the report that has been produced here shows exactly the same — warm thanks for it. It will take this common and united state of ambition forward in an excellent way. Mr President! When we want Finnish society to develop and the operating conditions for companies to improve, we also have to change the way public administration and other actors operate. We can no longer afford to collect and maintain data just for our own use, but we must take into account the needs of other people who need the same information. It is not possible to develop a digitalised society on its own: cooperation is needed. In public administration, it is important to develop cooperation within central government and cooperation between central government and municipalities and enterprises. Therefore, the general objectives of the report are to develop interoperability of spatial data, i.e. their usefulness, and to increase cooperation between the various actors. This also responds to the clear deficiency that we have at the moment and which Mr Kalmari has just pointed out, namely that we have conflicting location data at the moment, and this must not be the case. That is why we also urgently need that cooperation. The implementation of these objectives will contribute, inter alia, to the report's measures: developing cooperation with a new cooperation body, developing a common spatial information ecosystem and reforming legislation to ensure development. According to the report, the overall security of society and the protection of personal data must be ensured in all aspects of the development of spatial data and activities, and this was very well mentioned in the speech, presentation and also in the report. When all the measures proposed in the report are implemented, we are well on our way to that goal: the most innovative and secure spatial information ecosystem in the world. All Finns benefit from this. It is also clear that international cooperation, which is also strongly referred to here, must, of course, be done. This, if anything, is a topic in which the exchange of information at international level is very important, and also monitoring how these matters are handled elsewhere. But now, at this point, we have wanted to focus in particular on getting things done nationally and better and so that they can also be used safely, but that does not mean that we have forgotten that international dimension in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u85	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Leppa and Mr Kalmar, for the presentation. This was also discussed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and we issued an opinion. There attention was paid to nature services. Of course, forestry and agriculture will play an important role, such as weather services. Then such ideas, which may develop in the future, include waste side streams, waste treatment, transport, cost reduction, emission reduction. On that side, information is produced by general government, but companies have ideas that can then create new entrepreneurship and jobs. A safety perspective is always something I'm interested in. Like this one said, 140,000 conflicting information is available. The 112 application, which is available to the emergency centre, is one example of spatial information. When you make an alarm, the exact coordinates will immediately go there that where it happens, and if you do not know the exact location, it will be transmitted there, and then the help will come along. If you call for help from the highway, it won't help much if you say that I'm here between Hämeenlinna and Tampere somewhere that you can help, but when there are coordinates, the helpers will know immediately. Of course, from the point of view of the police too, such a statistical perspective comes with, for example, where crimes are committed, what types of crimes are being committed. A wide range of safety aspects can also be achieved in the transport sector. This is very interesting and opens up very much development prospects for Finland. One example of this end in terms of development cooperation: in many countries where I have been able to take part, the development of the agricultural industry comes up against the fact that it is not known whose field patch is, where the boundaries are, and this know-how is something that can also be used in development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u86	Madam President! The spatial data policy report is at the heart of a digitalising society. This is a basic condition for the development of electronic services. Good availability and quality of spatial data are at the heart of the process, so that services can be electronicized in transport, for example. We may not even be able to assess yet what new services can be built on open, accessible and compatible spatial data sets. However, we know that services, for example, require high-quality spatial data sets for use. Both the report and the report state that the provision of essential spatial data and related basic services is primarily a public service task. On the basis of this information produced by the public administration, companies can then carry out their own business and service production. This is easy to agree with. Finland is ahead of most other countries in terms of transparency and free access to spatial data in public administration, as stated in its opinion by the Committee on the Environment. The report does not take a position on the financing of activities in accordance with the objectives or on the marginal conditions for the payment or payment of charges. Is this an issue that should be considered further in the future? Should some kind of fee be charged to a company whose business is based on open access to spatial data from public funds? I am not saying that this should be the case, but it would be a good idea to think about it and to outline it in the future. It is important that the public administration manages and produces spatial data and transmits them to companies. It may be risky if the management of spatial data or the maintenance of registers is directed to a private body or, for example, the map service is crowded in so that individuals can modify the data and mark the places on the maps. Fortunately, the important role of public administration is recognised and recognised in both the report and the report. What's the most important thing? The essential thing is that there is good cooperation between the public and private sectors, which is also emphasised by the committee. There is certainly room for improvement in the accessibility and coordination of public administration and business information. It will be important to draw attention to this in the future, as the Committee on the Environment also points out and stresses the importance of building an ecosystem between the various actors. Madam President! A high level of security and the implementation of personal data protection and access rights to different data resources are increasingly important issues in our e-commerce society. This is also the case with spatial data. The limitation of access rights from the perspective of society's overall safety, security of supply and protection of personal data cannot be overemphasized, but on the other hand accessibility and transparency are also very important. This is where we need to find the necessary balance. The sitting government can be thanked for this important report and for the good work done by the committees. The Government has understood the importance of spatial information, as demonstrated by this report and the information policy report that is still to be drawn up on this side of the year. I would like to stress the importance of coordination between this and the forthcoming report, as well as the committee. There is also an information management law in preparation, which will be a general law establishing a framework for the exploitation of public administration information. When the law is implemented, it will also support the use and management of spatial data, so we will soon be able to discuss these important issues again. The report also identifies the places of danger and the risks that may arise from the spread of spatial data into the wrong hands. Unfortunately, cyberterrorism and various service attacks are commonplace. Spatial data can be valuable to someone who is intended to damage our society. They're critical infraa. It is important to be able to find a balance between transparency and easy access but also security. The ease of information transmission and the transparency of spatial information increase the risk of misuse of information, and these risks are important to be identified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u87	Mr President! The Committee on the Future also dealt with this important report, and I will bring a few greetings to the report. When it comes to spatial data, it should be borne in mind that this is not a small specific area, but a phenomenon that is rapidly strengthening, which creates new ways of producing and using information, and at the same time produces new users and producers of information. This creates plenty of new opportunities, but also threats from the point of view of civil society, the economy and public administration. From the point of view of the legislation, spatial data has links to, for example, traffic arches, data protection, intelligence legislation, information management law and information policy reports and also to the development of environmental legislation. It is a great challenge to coordinate legislation, but I believe that policy coherence is essential here too, and particularly in this area. The coordination of the activities of a wide range of operators is also a challenge, as the interface surfaces of the activities must ensure the accuracy of the information, but also its integrity. In a globalised world, spatial information policy needs to be made from a global perspective, as the operating environment for individuals and businesses is changing decisively as a result of the increasing collection and utilisation of location data. The global perspective is very thinly highlighted in this report, and the report also draws attention to this lack. From an individual's point of view, the utilisation of spatial data requires digital skills, and we still have nearly one million Finns who are unable, able or able to use digital services. So much training is needed for citizens to increase their digital skills, but there is also a need for training on the safe use of digitality. The fight against various security threats requires that reliable information is available and that people are able to critically evaluate information and to produce and use services responsibly and safely, not only in their work but also in their private lives. From a security point of view, spatial information does, on the one hand, increase security, for example, finding rescue and security authorities quickly speeds up access to assistance, but, on the other hand, mining of spatial data and combining different databases can also create security threats not only in terms of personal data protection but also at national level. The balance of opportunities and threats is important; they must be balanced. In all technological developments, we need more benefit-risk analyses that openly assess opportunities and threats. Mr President! From the point of view of personal data protection, it is important to be aware of and to consider whether we are highlighting open civil society, as has traditionally been done and done in the European Union, for example. But this is not the case everywhere, for China, for example, has gone down the road of increasing the control of citizens. Technological development, including spatial data, enables progress in both directions. The development and evaluation of technology must always take ethical aspects into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u88	Madam President! When it became clear when the committee's report was drawn up that there really are very many people who take advantage of the information and produce it, is it now true that the next legislative project which is now being submitted to us in December will become clear that there is no need to do unnecessary, overlapping work, or will this require further action later? Good and well-coordinated spatial information really saves a lot of the cost of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u89	Madam President! This is a good report, thanks to the Minister for its promotion and to the committee and the chairman of the committee for their good contributions. I would stress that spatial data serves as an important platform for the natural, smooth leisure of individuals as well as for the organisation of transport, access to information, potential new innovations by companies or even the fight against climate change, for example, when we consider how transport could be organised better and more environmentally friendly. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen also highlighted the fact that spatial data issues are strongly associated with a data protection element that should be carried with them. On the other hand, it is also worth noting that in matters relating to spatial data policy, we should not be sleeping internationally either, because the weaknesses of the GPS system, for example, are well-known. It is not just a short time since the GPS system above our soil has apparently been disrupted and thereby affected specifically the spatial data signals. The EU's Galileo system seems promising, but if I have understood correctly, the first satellites have only just been sent and it will take us some time for us to have an EU-level, well-functioning spatial information system. I would also like to make it clear that, in addition to data protection, open interfaces and as open access to information as possible for individuals and business, we may be able to generate new well-being and also business that we have not yet thought of.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u90	Madam President! Here Mrs Parviainen, Mr Olli-Son and also Mr Kiuru, Mr Pauli raised international cooperation and opportunities in this area. A similar type of EU spatial information policy programme would probably be needed, as there are already major problems within the EU, for example with regard to the definition of land ownership conditions mentioned by Mr Kiuru. For example, as forest fires become more common in southern Europe, Portugal, among others, is a country in which, you might say, there are major shortcomings in the registration of land ownership conditions and in the specification of location data. I would have asked the Minister whether there is any chance that Finland could also be in the EU during its own presidency, for example, to take these matters forward. Then, if we compare our neighbouring country with Estonia, there many of these kinds of registers, including those relating to land ownership conditions, are public and transparent and accessible to all citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u91	Mr President! In my speech, I forgot to ask the Minister a few questions which are directly related to what I have just said, and when we seem to have nothing more to discuss here, the Minister will probably be able to answer. So how are we going to coordinate these various legislative projects relating to spatial data? That is the difficulty of coordination and, in a sense, from the point of view of policy coherence, they should all go in the same direction. Otherwise, we'll have problems with society for sure. The second question relates to the extent to which risk-benefit analyses were carried out at the time of the report and to the extent to which further work is to be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u92	Madam President! Mr Essayah raised the issue of forest fires, and one of the committees mentioned in the papers that there are some deficiencies in the location information of forest cars. We know that a well-functioning forest road network is very important in the event of forest fires. If there are shortcomings, then what is possibly being done about it? The second aspect, which rarely comes up, is that we have this everyman's right — this is going a long way from here, but nevertheless: when the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry is here, have you paid attention to it or heard that more and more different types of booms are starting to appear on these roads with their own permits, and how it may even affect the movement of safety authorities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u93	Mr President! In connection with this discussion, we also raised the issue of how we should require municipalities to ensure that up-to-date spatial data are recorded in the general register and that the information is correct. In my own region, near Saimaa, where tourism is our chance to increase the vitality of the region — it has a real potential for growth — the problem is that tourists cannot find places where there is something to do. So when you come to Saimaa, of course you would like to go for a swim, but the tourist does not know where the good beaches are. They are known to the inner circle, to the local population, but not to outsiders, nor to those who recently moved to that area. Or the municipality’s ready infrastructure, which can be used in tourism, such as children’s playgrounds, where tourists can spend time with their children, have a picnic and at the same time swim, often the beach is close — these are not marked anywhere, and companies are not able to make a variety of mobile apps, so you can quickly look at how to get to these destinations. In other words, spatial information is also very important so that we can generate growth in our livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u94	Then Minister Leppä, answer. Is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u95	Madam President! Thank you for the good comments and also for the further development proposals that have come. All the speeches made a good point about how wide-ranging a matter and a matter that affects many issues and how much potential this is, starting with the development dimension and ending up with everyman's rights in Finland and everything in between. It is clear that spatial data and its processing and legislation, the related legislative measures, always include both opportunities and risks at the same time, and both of which we must take on a level playing field. It is clear that what is essential is that we make every effort to ensure that the data protection of spatial data is implemented. That is an essential issue. But at the same time, we also wonder how — as a representative — Tavitsainen said last time about tourism — we can still make use of it in industry too, and how, for example, we can create new applications in tourism. Harmonisation of municipal data sets with standards may also require measures, including measures in municipalities. It often makes economic sense to do so in connection with software updates or exchanges, so that it is also an up-to-date matter of course. So overall security and the protection of personal data is really, really central to all matters relating to the implementation of the report. With regard to the development of spatial data, attention has been drawn to the fact that, as I said earlier, better and more usable spatial data often produce both benefits and risks for society, and these should be very well defined for access to data and so on. Mr President! This coordination and coordination of information is extremely important and must be a cross-cutting approach at all times when we talk about this and other legislative projects in this area. There is also the next report to which this is a related one, i.e. an information policy report, and of course they must be in coordination with each other, it is quite clear. Well, do we want to be at the top of the EU? Of course they want to be and point the way. We have an excellent chance of doing so. Our own facility, the Earth Survey Institute, is one of the world's leading players in these matters. It provides the basis from which we can also make an effort in this area from the point of view of industry, that is quite clear. Then there is the loosely related matter, as Mr Kiuru has said here, everyman's rights. To that, I would just say that everyman's rights are a very fine approach. They must be used correctly so that no problems are caused or no damage is caused, and then these problems you have mentioned may arise, so that booms will appear when this right is abused. So there are both obligations and rights, and these must always be in everyone's mind. This is a great system for us, and it must remain with us, but these two things must be kept in mind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u96	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u97	Mr President! This is another legislative initiative on the bullying of schools that I have drawn up, and with this initiative I would like to introduce more obligations to intervene in school bullying and to introduce obligations in legislation on secondary education, i.e. upper secondary school and vocational school. This is actually a package of legislative initiatives, if you can say so, and the main issue here is the notification procedure. The organiser of the training should have an agreed procedure for both students and school staff to report any harassment, bullying, violence or other inappropriate treatment they see or experience. Then this requires guidance on how the principal and teachers intervene in known harassment or other bullying. Then there is also an obligation to intervene, but there is also an obligation to assess the safety of the study environment, arrangements, interventions and disciplinary penalties, which always take into account the level of development and age of the child or young person. Monitoring is also required to ensure that the situation is brought to an end. Finally, there is the right of the Regional State Administrative Agency, on its own initiative, to investigate the realisation of a safe study environment if there is any doubt that this will not happen. Well, it may sound as if these are taken for granted, but unfortunately this is not the case. Even now in Finland, according to the University of Vaasa’s Save School Bullies survey, one fifth of the bullying cases known to the school were brought to an end. In addition, I have drawn attention to the fact that the practice of being bullied to change schools sends the wrong message about how to respond to bullying. I have now done everything in my power to clarify and take into account this legislation on bullying at school, and I would like to stress that this bill has been prepared together with the OAJ, the Teachers' Trade Union, and also the Upper Secondary Education Union has wanted these similar things that this package of legislative initiatives contains. In short: clarifications are introduced into the Basic Education Act, the High School Act and the Vocational Education Act, which obliges intervention and follow-up, while allowing the regional government authorities to check that a safe learning environment is realised. Here, briefly, and it would be wonderful if anyone in the Chamber wanted to comment on this somehow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u98	Madam President! I would like to comment on the good and worthy initiatives taken by Mr Elovaara and I would like to thank Mr Elovaara for keeping the theme against bullying in school strongly on the agenda throughout this parliamentary term. In my view, even on a national level, the fight against bullying in school has been given new winds, thanks to you too, and I feel that you have earned your thanks. The fact that school bullying is taken seriously at all levels and is addressed not only in basic education but also in secondary level is extremely important and it feeds not only a safe space but also a culture against bullying in general throughout society, because people who graduate from schools also go to work, and we have a lot of questions about bullying at work, for example. At the same time, of course, it would be good for all of us to be positive role models in tackling bullying and preventing bullying. It is important that in your initiative you have also raised the option that the authorities can intervene, if necessary, in the situation of an individual school, because although I believe that the teaching staff are doing their best, there are situations that have arisen in this country, too, which can be considered very difficult for individuals and where no solutions have been found at school level. Monitoring is therefore also important to ensure that school bullying, for example, when it goes deeper than the surface, does not quickly sweep the matter under the ground or, so to speak, do not imagine that things will be dealt with when they are addressed, because sometimes there are situations where school bullying is genuinely such that it requires more long-term intervention. As such an individual citizen, I have always wondered about the practice of being bullied by the one who is being replaced. I understand the argument involved, but it is very difficult to demonstrate to one's sense of justice, especially if bullying involves continuity or something like that. The tortured family suffers from it and the bullied one suffers from the fact that they have often been subjected to such a situation without waiting, and, for example, school exchange is certainly a very stressful procedure. Of course, we must also ensure that there is sufficient help available to bullies in society and, for example, to monitor and address bullying tendencies as early as possible, of course, with soft means first and then, step by step, to see what forms of intervention are needed. This is a welcome opening to Finnish politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u99	Madam President! I also appreciate Mr Elovaara’s continued work and efforts against school bullying, and he has indeed made more legislative initiatives this season to intervene in this matter. Of course, one form of school bullying and bullying is very common in society, and it may be more difficult to tackle it than to push physically in the school yard or to shout, which in the past was often considered to be the hallmark of bullying. So I am talking about social media and bullying through it, which also has a lot of anonymous and anonymous communication and the like, but the subject of bullying may conclude that the person is someone who is within his sphere of life and knows the details that can be raised in these bullying messages. In that sense, I thought that the difficulty, for example, in this proposal is perhaps precisely how this type of thing can really be addressed. Of course, in most schools this type of discussion is taking place and the schools aim to follow it widely from the school staff's side and pick up the cases there, but I think that, despite good will, it is quite difficult to intervene in this form of bullying and harassment in the mass media of today's age, and in some way it remains in the dark. But I would have asked Mr Elovaara about how he sees the present student care work, what is being done in schools, and whether this social media is being addressed enough with this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u100	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Elovaara, for making this bill. What is particularly valuable is, as you said, that this has been prepared together with the OAJ and the professionals, which means that there will also be a positive reception there in the school world, and that is certainly what is expected, so I hope that this will progress. I would like to raise the unfortunate issue that our school world — and I am particularly concerned about primary school — is currently experiencing, namely that no replacements will be hired during the absence of teachers. In other words, a lot of municipalities do that if a teacher is ill for a short period, between 1 and 3 days or about a week, or is in education, then another teacher there at school will take care of this absent teacher’s class’s own work, that is to say, the take-up. These children are in a situation where they do not have an adult present in the classroom all the time when the teacher runs between the two classes, that is, two classes are suffering from this situation, and this is the daily routine in schools today. In this case, these classes, which are without an adult, may also have problems with peace of work, and when there are also students in these classes who need special support, then they will not receive all the support and guidance they need under the Basic Education Act and bullying will also be possible. This should be stopped as a course of action and require all municipalities to be replaced by a substitute whenever a teacher is absent. This may only be the case if the teacher reports that he is ill in the morning, and then it may take between 1 and 2 hours to hire a replacement, but certainly not for three days or even a week to be taken. If you imagine that this law, which Mr Elovaara is now proposing, will go ahead and be adopted, then in practice it will be destroyed because there adults will have to be present with children in order to achieve these good objectives of the bill. That is what I wanted to raise as my own concern. I wish this bill success.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u101	Mr President! It warms my mind that I saw a few colleagues here on a Christmas Eve to comment on this important issue. It is very heartwarming, and important remarks were made by each of you. I would therefore like to point out that the Ministry has set up a working group on bullying in schools, which I believe will be completed very soon. I look forward to the results and the consequences. I assume that this online bullying and the role of social media raised by Mr Essayah has been under consideration by the working group — at least I hope that because it is made up of experts, there will also be some tools to eradicate this. But at the same time I also point out the good side of social media that, for example, the national sekasin chat has been a good tool in the fact that when we have tough queues and young people can't reach anyone in their bad mood, through such a chat service he has been able to talk to an adult on a very fast schedule about the current situation. This can, for example, have an impact on the point of self-destruction or a very difficult situation. On the other hand, we can also help with this digital approach if we target it correctly. The teacher's substitute problems raised by Mrs Taavitsainen are true. I myself have been a substitute teacher many times. Alternates express the concern that they would like to meet a student but may be in five different educational institutions within a month. There is little time, and the long-term follow-up to what happens to the child, if I see that there are problems, and the procedure for which I should inform all parties is a little heavy, which then comes to the exchange of information between the authorities. This has been discussed in this Chamber before. In other words, authorities and people working in the steering work should be able and dare to exchange information more easily in situations such as these, where the life of a child or young person is in some way in a vulnerable situation. For we already know, from the 8-year-olds, who are excluded from the risk group, who are being bullied, and I think it is quite extraordinary that, if we already know about the 8-year-olds, who are those who need support, why do we not act more rigorously, because we would be saving human resources, but also financial resources, at this point, enormously. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u102	Mr President! I cannot help but pick up on what Mr Elovaara said about cooperation and exchange of information between adults working at school. I think that we have gone far enough now, and I do not really know whether it is too strict an interpretation of the law or what, which means that the school nurse can no longer tell the teacher anything. If the child is with the nurse at the normal health check, then the parents will be given a Wilma marking that the child has been absent from class — the teacher did not know that the child was there — and the parents will then have to explain to the Wilma marking that there has been no unauthorised absence, that the child has been with the nurse. Then, when the parents are surprised to ask the nurse if you adults at the school do not discuss with each other that such unnecessary entries are brought to us here, then the parents will be answered that it does not belong to the teacher if the child is with the nurse and that the nurse may not tell any of the child’s affairs to the teacher. In my opinion, this is a very big misinterpretation of the law, if you think that during the day all activities within the school should be considered in the best interests of the child. Do we in the law also have to clarify this in some way, or do the ministry have to issue new guidelines for action in the field? I'm sure this is going to have an impact on school bullying. If the child tells the nurse about bullying and the nurse is not allowed to tell the teacher anything about it, then it is not a normal situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u103	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u104	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In this bill, it is proposed that the maintenance of the credit repository be entrusted to the public. Finland has a major problem with the accuracy, management, verification and deletion of payment default marking. Nearly 400,000 Finns have already received a default marking. This corresponds to nearly 10% of adult consumers. The payment default marking makes life difficult in many ways because the payment default marking makes it difficult or impossible to rent or buy a dwelling, home insurance, electricity contract, hire contract, telephone connection and other necessities, and sometimes also to get a job. The payment of the debt does not remove the registration marking, but the default marking will remain in the credit registers for two to four years. It is particularly problematic that, at the moment, the payment disruption register is not in the hands of a public operator or a public service, but is operated by a private company, Suomen Asiakastieto Oy, which is owned by banks. Citizens have received feedback on unjustified payment default markings. They have happened, for example, because of the error of the enforcement officer. However, incorrect labelling has not been corrected in all cases. In this case, a person is placed in a credit-free state for two to four years for no reason whatsoever. In his 2017 report, the Parliamentary Ombudsman raised the issue of undue errors of payment due to an information system error in the Ministry of Justice. For example, in one case a person had failed to pay for the product he bought because he did not believe it was what was promised. In the debt proceedings, the person had challenged the claim, but the district court had sentenced him to payment. After this, the person had paid the bill, but the judgment had led to a default mark. The Parliamentary Ombudsman brought this case before the Court of Justice and stated that the condition of the credit information law on which the default marking was made is not satisfied that the mark must show the insolvency or non-payment of the person. According to the Parliamentary Ombudsman, a significant number of debtors had received a default mark on incorrect grounds. This is in the 2017 report. The Ombudsman noted that the Ministry of Justice’s information system should not disclose such information contrary to the Credit Information Act and the Personal Data Act to credit information companies and that, in order to ensure the legal security of debtors, it is important that incorrect entries resulting from the malfunctioning of the information system are removed from the credit registers and that such information should not be disclosed to credit information companies in the future. However, it has become apparent that incorrect default marking has not been removed, even though the Ministry of Justice proposed that the holder of the credit register remove these incorrect entries from its register. It seems that the laws of the jungle governing the making and management of indications and, since the maintenance of a default register is not a public task, incorrect entries cannot be corrected. People’s legal protection has therefore deteriorated. Since the register of defaults is in the hands of a private company, monitoring the accuracy of the register does not currently fall within the competence of the Parliamentary Ombudsman. Due to the realisation of legal protection for citizens and to the correction of shortcomings in the loss of credit information, credit information should be made public. Nevertheless, a private company could maintain the register, but when the law was amended, it would improve the proper and equal treatment of credit data and contribute to correcting errors. The supervision of the public function is subject to the supervision of the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. Mr President! I therefore propose to insert a new Article 33(2) of the Credit Information Act, which would read as follows: ‘If credit data are processed in the course of a credit information activity, the credit information function is a public task within the meaning of Articles108 and109 of the Credit Information Act and is also part of the supervisory function of I hope that this law will come into force from the beginning of next year or as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u105	Madam President! I consider this initiative by Mr Taavitsainen to be a modification of Article 33 of the Credit Information Act so that the keeping of the credit register is made public as a very important and worthy initiative. We know that in Finland today some 400,000 citizens already have a default mark. This is a considerable number of people in proportion to our population: people who suffer from unemployment or long-term illness, students who hold on to student grants, working low-income parents of families with children and already retired grandparents, neighbours and friends, our neighbors, who have received a payment default marking, for example because of a delay in the customer charge for health care or early childhood education. Living in a daily economic crisis is very consuming. It will tax initiative and inclusion. It also takes resources to study, work or care for the family. Concerns about due payments and future bills reduce the well-being of all those living in tight economic conditions, but it is particularly bad for families with children. We also know from a number of studies and from the extent to which economic distress experiences are detrimental to families with children. The smaller the children are, the more damaging are the plight and poverty resulting from family default marking. The fact is that the poverty experienced in childhood is an integral part of children’s lives, resulting in lasting experiences of exclusion. As a result of parental default marking, children are left out of the ordinary things in children’s lives: hobbies, friends and many other factors that promote well-being. In everyday wrestling, parents are exhausted in their incomes for bills and their collection costs, and they do not have the resources to support the good growth, education and education of children. This is how the squirrel wheel is done. In particular, it seems unreasonable and contrary to the principle of fairness that even if those with payment difficulties manage to save and pay all their debts, the default marking will not be removed from the credit register. In the worst case scenario, the financial difficulties in families will only continue because the default marking will remain in the register for a couple of years, even for the four years mentioned by Mrs Taavitsainen. — Four years. We can well imagine how unjust this one who paid his debt feels. The amendment of Article 33 of the Credit Information Act so that keeping the register would be a public task would correct the situation of those who have received a default mark when the accuracy of the register was controlled by the Parliamentary Ombudsman. In particular, it would correct the situation of those who have received the mark incorrectly and have not agreed to correct the error despite the requests. According to the Ombudsman, a significant number of debtors have been wrongly identified as having suffered the consequences. I find this rather scandalous information. Mr President! The question arises as to how it may be possible for people to suffer for no reason because of the information system of the Ministry of Justice. As Mr Tavitsainen has just said, the failure marking makes life difficult for people in many ways. The marking can prevent the acquisition of housing, home insurance, electricity contracts and telephone subscription contracts and even employment. One woman told me that you cannot come to work in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area because you cannot rent a dwelling because of a default note, while the second feedback was that one person cannot get out of an indoor air problem because you cannot rent a new apartment because of a default marking. As a result of the default marking, people have been denied bank cards and their lives have become unduly difficult as a result. There has also been such a communication that the enforcement officer had found that he had made a mistake but that he could not correct the default marking. Such activities have undermined people's confidence in Finland as the rule of law, and there is a reason for that. It is extremely easy to support this initiative by Mr Taavitsainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u106	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mr Taavitsainen for his good initiative. I must say that I have become more and more surprised at this all-looking jungle around credit information. This change would be positive. When brought under public authority, this is more transparent and perhaps, hopefully, more effective. I must say that I have also received a direct message from people with credit information or payment difficulties and they have also wanted a national register for their own use, that is to say, some kind of register from which they themselves see their own debts, which unfortunately many come from different collection companies, that is, it is such a jungle, and it is difficult to control it. This register would be accessible with online banking credentials and could then also be used to pay off — to monitor and pay off the debt itself. The greatest thing would be to have access to it, if necessary, also to authorities dealing with these people. It is therefore a question of digitising this area in such a way as to make it easier for debtors themselves to manage matters, to monitor their own situation and to communicate with recovery companies, for example through the communication service in such a register. At the moment, they are forced to call at their worst for hours through different companies and to collect different debts, and there are many challenges. Yes, we must now pay attention to this group of people who have come into a difficult situation, and it is not unduly complicated by the practicalities of all the world. Here. Tavitsainen well pointed out the types of problems that this register is currently experiencing. I know that Mr Satone has also taken a good initiative on this issue, and I think it was precisely that the default marking should be removed once the debt has been settled, preferably immediately. This is insane!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u107	Madam President! The Tavitsainen initiative must be supported. I also believe that, for example, if we were to reflect on public statements about the crackdown on public standards, that, despite the fact that we would bring this into public service and thereby ensure that there would be control over default marking, there would certainly be a reduction in bureaucracy in this country, because the need to deal with unjustified cases which are very burdensome not only to the individual but also to many others would be eliminated. I think it should be at the very least a presumption that, first of all, there would not be unjustified payment default marking, but if they were to arise now because of a technical defect or something else, then there should be a presumption that they could be corrected quickly, preferably as soon as the error is discovered. It is totally unreasonable to think that an individual suffers from a database error in such a way that his entire life may be at a standstill for years because of such a single thing. Frankly, Mr President, that seems like a cheekless idea, and I sincerely hope that we will be able to put this right. The idea of who works as an operator in such a register may be secondary. What really matters is that the control is carried out through public authority and that the intervention threshold is lower and we are indeed able to monitor it. A very private company can maintain such a register. Mr Elovaara also mentioned this problem of finding and seeing and finding the total amount of people's debt. A positive credit register has been displayed in this house many times, and it could be the solution if it were opened up to such a part, it is said, for individual users, through which they can follow their own data. At the moment, debt counselling, for example, will certainly take a great deal of time to settle the debts of people who have fallen into debt problems, who have often taken on several different debts from different credit companies. Digitalisation could bring about a solution here that would be not only in the interests of the individual but also in the interests of financial institutions, because there is hardly anyone who wants to over-indebtedness. Let us conclude that a good debate has also been held in this Chamber, for example, on the subject of short-term credit, and the government has also been active in this regard. I think it is a good line that is linked to this debate. In other words, reducing debt problems not only by technical solutions but also by ensuring that things work, and also by legal solutions that prevent so-called 'loaning'.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-29-ps-123.u108	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for taking part in this debate. Just as Mrs Parviainen said, it seems very strange that these incorrect entries, which have come out of the error of the Ministry of Justice's computer program, have not been corrected and even though the Ministry has asked the registry administrator to correct them, they have not been corrected. Here comes the problem that when it is not a public task, our nails cannot reach it. However, we are talking about a register which has very serious consequences for the daily lives of our citizens, as has been mentioned here: access to housing, home insurance and telephone subscriptions or partial payment agreements will be made more difficult immediately if there is a payment default marking. The representative, Elovaara, raised the issue more broadly in relation to recovery companies and the everyday pain points of enforcement debtors about how the entire sector is currently under the law of the jungle and control is not working. I cannot fail to say how much feedback comes from the citizens that collection companies also collect outdated debts and those that people have already paid. This is because collection companies are often international collection companies and sell these people’s debts to each other. If, for example, an elderly person has missed a customer charge for social welfare and health care, even if EUR 20 is not paid, then it will end up with an international collection company that sells it forward and so on — that bill goes around the globe, and then the debt is charged, and it quickly increases interest and costs, so that it is already the payment of several hundred euros — these companies do not have the original invoice at all, i.e. they have no proof that a person owes. All this control, as well as the supervision of the payment default register, is linked together, and somehow I feel that we need a piece of better supervision and a tighter grip, because we are dealing with more than half a million people who have been subject to enforcement at the moment, and there are almost 400,000 of them, which means that we are dealing with a very large number of our citizens.
