ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u2	Madam President! Recently, we have waken up to more plastic than fish in the world’s seas by 2050. Plastic is a good and practical material in many ways, but the problem is the generation of plastic waste. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u11	Why don't we take a little debatt for a while?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u12	Mr President! This was an excellent speech and would like to see such speeches heard more often in this Chamber. I am not going to repeat what it said — there were very good points — but I just hope that these things will now move forward strongly in our administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u13	Madam President! I think that this initiative is the right one. Today we need to consider more effective ways of supporting a more environmentally friendly economy and, overall, encouraging a circular economy. We have a certain preoccupation with the SDP here. We have sometimes talked about the taxation of packaging and things like this, and even now we have ideas as to how we could change our tax system in an overall supportive way in a more environmentally friendly direction in the future. President, what I would like to say here: It is good that the government said that it is starting to clarify this issue, but I may not understand why it is only in the autumn that these measures will start. I'd encourage you to take action right away and look at the whole thing, but maybe you could do it on a broader basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u16	Just so you know, we're going to spend the rest of this time on this debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u17	Mr President! I have to say that there is obviously one thing here that can be broadly agreed both in the government and in the opposition, and I am delighted that Mr Pertti, a respected naturalist, is also a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. Mr Salolainen raised this essential aspect of this issue, namely the promotion of a sustainable economy and nature conservation. It is also related to the forwarding of this plastic tax. But then I agree with Mr Viitanen's point of view that we need to think a little more broadly. This idea of packaging tax, which also leads to the rational use of natural resources, has been mentioned in the alternative budgets in the past. Attitudes are changing. Plastic bags are now being charged across the line. This is a place for a big change of attitude, and this solution alone will not suffice. Greater governance of tax policy is needed if we are to achieve a tax system that is consistent with the principles of a sustainable society and the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u18	Mr President! Former MP Esko Seppänen once said that vanity, boastings and harms must be put on a higher tax, and this is precisely a disadvantage. So the whole world has been awakened to the next really big problem since climate change, that is to say, as Mr Mikkonen said here that in 2050 more plastic than fish is estimated to be in the world's seas. It is a huge disaster threat and must be responded to. It is, of course, important for the parliamentary bill to put this issue in motion, but, of course, the government should be required to act quickly, as has been referred to here. This will come to the Committee on Finance and the tax section's table, and we will see how this initiative can speed things up. But this is indeed a problem that must be tackled immediately and without delay and with the greatest possible and most effective means.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u20	Madam President! It is good to hear that this Green Group initiative on plastic packaging tax is widely supported. The world is drowning in plastic garbage, and a plastic bottle, for example, will not break up in the wild for 500 years. We need to stop this development and take policies that make it easy for people in their everyday lives to avoid plastic. It is good that the government is also clarifying the plastic packaging tax, but, for example, this proposal, which was presented by Mr Mikkonen, is already ready for use and can be introduced as soon as possible. This proposal is part of the wider opening of the Green Group in February, and other proposals include banning the addition of microplastics to products. This is also a recommendation from the Nordic Council to the Nordic governments, which Sweden is already laudably about to introduce in the summer, and this is what Finland must do — as soon as possible to introduce a ban on the use of microplastics in cosmetics.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u21	Mr President! Finland has a good history, a forerunner in the recycling of hostage bottles. This has also gradually been followed up by other countries and has been improved. I remember when my family often visited Israel in the '90s, and there was a major problem in the Middle East with these bottles of plastic pawns. There was no system to get some money for taking them to the store for recycling, and there were bottles all over the streets. There is no more: If today you go to Jerusalem or Tel Aviv, they have a system today, and the street image in that regard looks the same as in Finland, which means that it has gone for the better. If we look at the situation in the EU, it is estimated that 100,000 tonnes of plastic will end up in the sea every year on the coasts of the EU countries. In other words, when we talk worldwide, this is a problem in the EU too, not just in developing countries. As such, the foot is off the brake — the brake is probably made of plastic — but I do believe that the clarification now needs to be made carefully and that the plastic tax should be introduced on disposable plastic at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u22	President! As Mr Uotila said, this can also be dealt with in the tax section. That is how it goes, even though we do not usually deal very extensively with initiatives, but there is a more general interest here. Indeed, when we think more about environmental protection, the polluter must pay. Much has been said, for example, about the global carbon tax, the carbon tax. In theory, it would be good if a proper tax could be imposed on emissions, so the market would start operating, produce less emissions, and also create faster technologies that prevent carbon dioxide emissions. This is a smaller issue, but of course this plastic pollution is also a global phenomenon in the seas of the world. As far as Finland is concerned, I am in favour of clarifying our own solution to this issue, perhaps with a more targeted approach, as set out in this initiative, and in that sense I am in favour of clarifying the issue of this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u23	Mr President! Environmental issues are very important, and it is good that Finland has been strongly awakened to handle these issues in the future and to take action to reduce pollution. Large countries, many industrialised countries are polluting enormously and their contribution to environmental issues must be strong. I say thank you to Krista Mikkos for bringing the bill on plastic. This is really important. It is not good for humans, nor is it good for animals, that the world’s seas have litter that contaminates and causes great problems for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u24	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Mikkos, for this bill. Mr Viitanen was too modest in underestimating his own contribution to the fact that the SDP already presented a packaging tax in its alternative budget in 2009. It is nice that the Social Democrats could have been here to inspire the Greens into a legislative initiative. Ensuring the fight against climate change and sustainable development are so important for Finland and for all mankind that their consideration should be a consistent principle of all legislative reform, and this is what the SDP also strives for. As part of the tax programme to be published in the near future, we will introduce a systematic principle in which all tax reforms will also be considered from the perspective of sustainable development. A good example of this is the debate now before the large committee on the comprehensive reform of the EU VAT system. It gives us the opportunity to present VAT on sustainable development, that is to say, all the tax reform of the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u25	Mr President! This is a global problem, after all. A few months ago, I met a photographer who had described the effects of climate change in Svalbard, and he told me that there too the beaches are full of powdered plastic. Of course, Finland is not the main cause of this global problem, but we can be a large part of this solution. I do not believe that recycling alone and its solutions will help. Of course they are needed, but we need to develop packaging materials that are biodegradable — really biodegradable. It also does not help that we make plastic, even from wood raw material, if the end product itself is just the same plastic as the oil-based plastic. By developing bio-based packaging solutions, Finland can:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u26	Mr Vähämäki will make the last reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-13-ps-35.u27	President! First of all, Mr Mikkos has a very good initiative, and I must say that Mr Hassi has reached that key point here. So there really are biodegradable plastics that are either oil-based or bio-based decomposing plastics. Bio-based biodegradable plastics decompose to carbon dioxide and water faster than these other non-biodegradable plastics. If we could somehow control consumption through international cooperation, for example, towards these bio-based, decomposing plastics — such as cellulose-based biodegradable plastics — then this would be a huge opportunity for our industry and business to make new products, including products from the forest industry. Neste Corporation:
