ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-01-ps-147.u1	Pursuant to Article 56 of the Constitution of Finland, today the President of the Republic elected on 28 January 2018 before Parliament is to issue the solemn declaration provided for in that paragraph of the Constitution. To that end, I have invited Parliament to this plenary session and I now ask you, Mr President of the Republic, to give the solemn assurance provided for in Article 56 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-01-ps-147.u2	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-01-ps-147.u3	Mr President of the Republic! Thank you for your solemn assurance. On December 7, 1993, the sky in Helsinki was cloudy, snowing was 5 degrees below zero. You were then a Member of Parliament and the chairman of the Constitutional Committee and on your way to Mäntyniemi with the committee to meet President Mauno Koivisto. On the occasion of the meeting, the President: Koivisto gave the members of the committee a book that, according to his own words, had learned almost everything he knew about the president’s position. The book was Professor Sven Lindman's research called Presidentens ställning. According to Mr Lindman, the President must be a supporter of parliamentarianism and a mediator of political conflicts. Ärade Republicans President! Jag vill tacka er för er högtidliga försäkran. Den 7 December 1993 var himlen över Helsingfors mulen, det snöade och det var fem grader callt. Då varni ricksdagsledamot och ordförande i grundlagsutskottet och tillsammans med utskottet på väg till Talludden för att traffa President Mauno Koivisto. Vid ert öte gav president Koivisto utskottsmedlemmarna en bok för läsning, som enligt hans egna ord hade honom nänstan allt om vad det innebär att vice president. Boken var professor Sven Lindmans undersökning Presidentens ställning. Enligt Lindman ska Presidente stöd and parliamentarismen och medla i politiska conflictter. When you left Mäntyniemi, you must have felt the cold of winter. But now I ask: what sense is most important to the President of the Republic of Finland? Juho Kusti The eyes of Paasikivi were clouded by cataracts, and at the end of his season he saw no more. But he didn't mourn it. In an uncertain world, even the eyes can't see the future. You have to act on your inner instinct and understanding. Brave Kekkonen thinks the president didn't need a sense of smell. According to him, the country does not need a president who, with his nose, "shuts up what public opinion says about each issue, and on that basis determines its position." The hearing sense, however, is important, for the president needs accurate ears to hear people’s concerns and hopes. Even more important, though, is the moral sense, the ability to distinguish right from wrong. As long as Finland has existed, our government has faced the same moral question: what is the relationship between national interests and the interests of mankind? J.V. Snellman answered this question in this way: "Every nation lives for its own interests and does right in it. However, its efforts will only succeed if its own interests are combined with the interests of mankind." President Niinistö, you have skilfully defended Finland's interests, international cooperation and nature. Let me give you a few examples. Northern nature is particularly important to the northern people. Our climate is warming up, glaciers are melting, snow is turning into water. The big reason for this is black coal. You have discussed this with other Heads of State and called for measures to reduce emissions. The initiative you have presented from the Arctic Summit to settle this and other issues is very important for our country and for the entire natural ecosystem. In particular, you have worked for those young people who have lost meaning in their lives and who have drifted away from work and from studies. Many of them live isolated lives. You have hoped that every Finn would ask himself a question: "What can I do about this?" In the history of the Finnish presidential institution there is also a good answer to this question, Urho Kekkonen's words at the Paasikivi Society's event in 1964: "When I have been asked if I can do something, I say I will meet you halfway and if necessary beyond." Let us think of ourselves as people for a moment. According to Eero Huovinen, the most important journey in a person’s life is to meet the other half. Today, this is all the more important in the face of social segregation, the emergence of bubbles and growing tensions. Societal integrity will not be maintained unless every Finn comes to the second half and, if necessary, beyond it. The sustainability gap is a serious social phenomenon. Achieving balance requires that members of society recognise not only their rights but also their responsibilities. As a result of segregation, the lack of respect in our society is as serious a phenomenon as the sustainability gap. True respect requires that we accept what we do not understand in others. We are happy to wait for others to come to us, but we must have the courage to go halfway against those we do not understand. It's February 1st. Helsinki has roughly the same weather as at the beginning of December 1993. The weather seems stable, but in fact we do not know what the weather will be like in 25 years' time. Climate change is inevitable and we cannot predict exactly how political measures will slow it down. The same uncertainty is always part of the political environment. You, Mr President of the Republic, have also said that 'it is difficult for you to rely on the absolute truths that you have encountered very rarely in life'. If you look for complete certainty, you will find it best in your own convictions, shared goals and respect for others. You can also find certainty in history. It shows how a small country can become bigger than it is when a skilled foreign policy leader understands that national interests and the interests of mankind are not mutually exclusive alternatives and that the demands of history and geography are not at odds with human rights and international cooperation. Ärade Republicans President! Urho Kekkonen beskrev presidenttuppdraget som "ett tungt ämbete eftersom det är ett arbete för en sen man". Under tunga och ossmma stunder kan ni trots allt finna tröst och kraft i det factum att hela Finlands folk står bakom er och att ni har riksdagens stöd. På varje ricksdagsledamots vägnar vill jag jacka er för ert arbete hittillalls. Ni har någon gång sagt att "det viktigaste i livet är att man klarar sig med äran i behåll, och att allt går lä för nära och kää". Jag vill tilönska er och era närstående lycka och framgång också framöver. Mr President of the Republic! Brave Kekkonen said that the president's role "is a heavy duty, for it is the work of a lonely man". However, in heavy and lonely moments, you can find comfort and strength in having the support of the Finnish people and parliament behind you. On behalf of every Member of Parliament, I thank you for your work so far. You've said that "the most important thing in life is that you get through it with honor, and especially those close to you get through it." I wish you and your loved ones good luck and success in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-01-ps-147.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
