ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 26/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u2	Mr President! There is a report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the amendment of the Military Injury Act. The question is, therefore, that in the future, the maintenance or part-time maintenance provided for by the military injury law may be replaced by the maintenance provided for in the institution, even if the need for it is due to a non-replaced injury or illness, in the event of the war between 1939 and 45. Today, that disadvantage rate is at least 20%. This is the background to the joint initiative of the members and alternates of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which was being discussed on the eve of Independence Day. Today we are happy to tell our colleagues that such an important issue will now be taken care of in a hurry, and therefore there is good news to tell you: the report is now based on the fact that this proposal will be put into effect on 1 January or as soon as possible. Therefore, on behalf of the members of the committee and the alternates, this is now a good example of how the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in this country has in haste put an important issue in order. I would like to thank all parties for promoting this important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u3	Thank you for the introduction. As we have half an hour and I hope that as many people as possible will be allowed to speak, we will go to the debat, and in the order in which you have reserved the floor, we will go to the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u4	Madam President! Up until ten years ago, there were nearly 100,000 veterans among us, over 17,000 a year ago, and less than 12,000 today, and it is estimated that next year the number of veterans will fall by half. Last night's cry is calling out to our distinguished citizens now. Mr President! This is a very fine thing that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is working together and that the parties have taken this decision together, which has long been sought to change the law on military injury so that the disadvantage rate of the war ovalids is reduced from 20 to 10 per cent, and thus more and more people will be able to access these services. The fact that these men and women are already 93 years old is the reason why they need treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u5	Mr President! We still have a few moments to thank the veterans of our wars, the honorable citizens, and this amendment to the Military Injury Act will bring all the war electors into the same position as regards access to services. It is important that the least disabled war-qualified also receive the same services as others. At the risk of their lives, the veterans have secured our beloved fatherland, and the war veterans have even suffered a lifelong handicap from it. Many veterans also have a fragment in their soul. The average age of war veterans is 95 years. They're fragile. They won't be with us much longer. I would like to warmly thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and all the parliamentary groups for this common will and desire to help the veterans of our wars.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u6	Madam President! This bill, which has now been introduced by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and which will improve the position of veterans, is good and valuable and I hope that it will feel that way and that it will be felt that way. We want to respect and appreciate those veterans of the wars who have fought for us there on the front. I remember for myself that my grandfather, my papa, had a piece of shrapnel under his skin, and we as little girls then wondered what strange things could have happened there. We didn't hear much, and we didn't know much. Now we know what it's been like on the front. I think that every man who has experienced war is somehow a veteran of war. There are little children who have experienced the sound of that war and the fear of their own father coming back from the front. I hope that we will also see those born in the 40s when we develop care for the elderly in the future and make sure that it works. I wish all the veterans and their families a merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u7	Madam President! This joint initiative by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, our joint bill, concerns some 440 war-qualified people, and it is a great thing that we managed to do this on a very short schedule here in the middle of Christmas, under the Fourth of July. The thing is that these war ovals have some visible disability, but surely we all Finns know that none of the wars survived without any kind of fragment in the soul. That is why all the measures and legal initiatives and the work that is being done in society, that all those who have waged war receive equal treatment in the service system, are important. That is why I am also pleased that it is right here at Christmas that we decided that all veterans will receive in less than a year's time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u8	Mr President! I would also ask to join those who today wish to express their great appreciation to the veterans of our wars, to whom we owe so much and whose work today is to thank for the fact that we can build a society here in peaceful, secure conditions. This is a fine decision which has now been taken in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health as a proposal to the whole Parliament, and it tells us that the committee has genuinely considered the needs of the disabled and reacted to the long-term desire they have had. Then, at the same time, there is also reason to express the element of surprise: I have quoted that today the Committee on Finance has accordingly approved a budget in which the Committee on Finance blesses the government's proposal to cut the front for our war veterans. In the midst of everything we now see about economic growth, the Committee on Finance proposes that the front increase be cut in the form of index cuts next year. I will wait for this proposal to fit in with the spirit of what is now under discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u9	Madam President! I remember when I was a kid and when I was a kid in the municipality of Pello in Northern Ostrobothnia, I visited my grandmother and grandfather's old cottage in Kieksiisniemi, two pictures of young men, black and white pictures on the wall, 20-year-old men. I never met them, but I found out a lot about what they did. My grandfather’s two brothers fell in wars, and thanks to men and women like them today we can talk here about this important issue, the debt we owe them. What has been great, always parliamentaryly we have been able to agree on these issues and find the money and support these men and women. It is truly startling, as Mr Heinonen pointed out, that there were still 17,000 veterans of our wars last year, now 12,000 this year and next year half of it, 6,000. This is really the last night's cry, and it is the last moments to do these things, and in that sense Mr Heinäluoman's attention was also very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u10	Madam President! I too agree with these thanks. This is a good example of how, when there is goodwill, we can make good decisions together as a Parliament as a whole. I share Mr Heinäluoma's concern, and I would also like to say that these are not very compatible. Perhaps next week, in this Chamber, we could fix this in some way, and I hope that the representatives of the government will join in, because the veterans of our wars deserve all our attention and our support until the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u11	Madam President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health was unanimous in this proposal and I am very pleased that we have reached this decision. As has been pointed out in many good speeches, the number of veterans of our wars falls very significantly each year and now it is high time to make this good decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u12	Madam President! I too would like to say that I am very pleased that Parliament is now able to pay off this debt to veterans in our wars. These people, who have made it possible for us to live here in a safe Finland, will certainly enjoy the respect of all of us. This was a matter of honor, and it's a great thing we got it this way. But I would also like to return to that front supplement and its index cut. I think there is a very sad situation here. We have talked about it in this Chamber before. This law has already been voted on at first reading, but second reading is still ahead of us next week. It's sad if, in this situation, the government wants to cut the parlour. I do not think it is appropriate at this time, and I appeal to the government parties to withdraw this proposal. In the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health's own calculations, the savings are so apparent that the line reads 0,00
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u14	Madam President! I would like to thank you for the fact that, in common understanding, we have finally managed to put this right so that our veterans who have now served in the war will receive the services for their last years, regardless of the degree of disability. This is a very important decision. I'm gonna need this. As many Members have said before me, the work they did there on the front was important, and we should respect it and thank it, and this is the least we can do in this situation. The Veterans are getting smaller and smaller and, indeed, we are now at the last minute bringing these services to everyone, and that is a good thing. But I also hope that this spirit of cooperation will continue so that we can reverse these index cuts to the front.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u15	Madam President! I have been able to do almost 30 years of veteran work in its various forms, and it has been great in Parliament as a representative of Parliament to deliver the veterans' cause also on the legislative side. I am pleased and, to some extent, also proud of the joint decision taken by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. With will and will, things will also move forward, and this cooperation between parties will now bring down the handicaps from 20% to 10%. The solution is wise and, above all, common in this republic. But I would like to draw attention to the indexation of the front supplement, which was discussed here on Monday, and I sincerely hope that the government will also hear the voice of its conscience here, in addition to the voice of the opposition. Mrs Viitanen and I held this on Monday, and then there was no echo, but hopefully the echo will be heard after this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u16	Mr President! There is certainly a broad consensus in Parliament on the adoption of this proposal, and thank you very much to the veterans for being an independent country at the moment. For these performances themselves: Indeed, it is very good that these services are now being extended to a larger number — this larger group, which, unfortunately, will be reduced. But what is particularly important is to note, then, the second proposal, precisely that this statutory right for a large group of front veterans to live at home is in the future equal to that of the war ombudsmen, and the brothers are thus placed on the same line. It is a pity that these specific cuts for this few ten cents per month have yet to be made, but fortunately these services are now expanding to a larger number, which will often compensate them for this when they are helped to get them home.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u17	Madam Speaker! A few years ago, when I came to the market in Pieksämäki for a political event, a 90-year-old veteran, who had arrived in a taxi, was waiting for me, and it was on his part that his disability rate was not 20 percent, and that would in some way upset me. Indeed, the average age of these people who are now affected by this bill is over 93 years, and in that sense, of course, this talking about the degree of disability still seems rather strange, but in any case it is a great thing that this group is now being extended. This applies to almost 500 people. It is a great thing that this right also extends to the services to be taken home by those living at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u18	Mr President! This is an important joint decision by the Parliament, which is now being taken. Thank you also for preparing this in committee. Surely we all have people in the circle of acquaintances or relatives who have been affected by these matters, and perhaps in today’s world situation we understand the meaning of what it has had, that at the right time the earth has been defended and worked for. I would also like to add my voice to the concern expressed by Mr Heinäluoma that there will be cuts elsewhere, and I hope that there will be enough of the Christmas spirit to correct that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u19	Madam President! I am very pleased that this important initiative by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has been brought forward unanimously. This initiative is indeed a tribute to those who were prepared to give everything in their power for the common fatherland. It is excellent that this proposal improves the position of very elderly war-qualified people and allows them to replace the State Treasury when they no longer manage at home. Our task here in Parliament is to ensure, unanimously and together, that the elderly war choosers receive the services and do everything we can to ensure their well-being. It must be said that Finland would not be such a good place to live and live without the actions of our war veterans and war-qualified men. Madam President! I hope that this initiative will receive the unanimous approval of the whole Parliament. In that way, we will show them our appreciation and also wish the veterans and the MPs of our wars a merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u20	Madam President! I agree with the thanks that have been expressed here on a large scale in relation to the improvement of the status of veterans. For years, I myself have been sitting on the negotiating board for front veteran affairs. For example, there has been talk of this reduction in the disadvantage rate every year, and now this has happened, in other words, war veterans and veterans are much more equal in access to home services. When we all know that the average age of veterans is long over 90 years, these home services are extremely important, as is the fact that the government has also increased the amount of rehabilitation funds. We have received budget increases compared to last year's rehabilitation budget, and it is also a very important measure for these old, older people, some of whom are multi-diseased. Then I'd like to thank the municipalities again. In recent times, municipalities have become much more active in producing and organising these veteran services. They should just find those veterans in the municipal area who really need services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u21	Mr President! Of course, I am very pleased and grateful that we can take this issue forward unanimously. It is indeed the last moment to thank those who have fought for our independence and have also contributed to the reconstruction of our country. This has taken enormous sacrifices. I am also very pleased that we have improved things with regard to the services to be taken home, because the average age of veterans is very high, so the services to be taken home are absolutely central.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u22	Mr President! In other words, those who have now spoken will hopefully remove those requests to speak, so that this matter will not be prolonged in the Parliament House, or the matter will go slower. Mr President! It is a pleasure to see that this year and the debate in Parliament have just the right value for veterans. Veterans are appreciated. This has not always been the case in society, but at the moment the situation is very good. The fact that this issue of handicaps improves the position of the war-qualified is certainly one important issue. The overall picture must also be seen in the light of the fact that, at the beginning of November next year, veterans will also be able to reach the same level in terms of the services to be delivered home. It is the great change that is taking place here, and we must all appreciate it and give it the credit that belongs to it. It is also an economic solution and, in this respect, we must see this as a whole in terms of veteran services and their status.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u23	Madam President! Lowering the handicap rate of the war-qualified to 10% is an important tribute to the war-qualified. This is an important reform which will also allow free treatment for those war-qualified who have had a lower degree of disadvantage but who have, over time, also experienced an increase in their suffering and hence an increase in their need for treatment. However, this situation is contradictory precisely because it has been the will of the government parties to cut back on the front. In this situation, we can all say that this is not a question of money, but of values, honour and will, and I would like this matter to be properly corrected in the context of parliamentary proceedings and thereby to show a broad consensus on the war ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u24	Madam President! We have only spent the 79th anniversary of the Winter War at the end of November and since then we have had the opportunity to celebrate the 101 anniversary of our independence. These men and women we are discussing made it possible to maintain independence and celebrate a holiday. The fact that war veterans and veterans are now being harmonised with regard to the services to be taken home is at present the least we can pay for these sacrifices afterwards, as well as the fact that war veterans with more than 10% disadvantage are now also being given institutional rehabilitation in treatment facilities approved by the State Treasury. I would see that this disadvantage should also be eliminated in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u25	Mr President! We have heard fine speeches that respect our veterans here today. Thank you for that, ladies and gentlemen. The consensus of the bill is also an indication of how valuable Finland’s independence is to us all. Mr President! For example, these services are very necessary for our ageing veterans. I cannot help but be amazed at the fact that every time we meet these veterans who are still alive, how modest they are, and it is extremely important that we can at least show our respect for them in some way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u26	Thank you for the debate. There are four further speeches to be made. Do you want to leave them for next week?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-14-ps-131.u27	The fourth item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 17 December 2018. The Council of Presidents proposes that the procedure for the sole reading of the draft budget be as follows: the representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central assembly. This must be done even if the amendments are included in the objections. In its amendment, I would also ask the representatives to mention the budget initiative or the number of objections on which the amendment is based and the author of the proposal. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 14.00 p.m. on Monday 17.12.2018. The proposals will be put together as hate to be distributed to the representatives. The proposals shall be numbered in each section and title, as well as in the general provisions of the detailed explanatory memorandum and in the general statement of reasons, starting with number 1. The debate will begin with a general debate on the entire draft budget. The detailed examination first presents the expenditure, then the revenue, then the general provisions of the detailed explanatory memorandum and the general arguments and finally the proposal for the application of the budget. A general discussion is first allowed for each section, followed by proposals for the section. Proposals for the same section may be made at one time by referring to the numbers in the booklet. A statement of support shall be made immediately after the intervention of the proposer. When all the proposals for a single section have been submitted, they shall be put to the vote. The figures and other items in the section for which no amendments have been proposed shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance. Titles of revenue, general provisions of detailed explanatory notes and general arguments shall not be allowed to be the subject of a general discussion. Otherwise, the procedure is the same as when dealing with the main categories.
