ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. One hour is reserved for this referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 4. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u2	Madam President! I present to Parliament the Government's proposal to amend the Automotive and Vehicle Tax Act. A new method of measuring CO2 emissions from cars (WLTP) will enter into force in the European Union, which will further assess fuel consumption and CO2 emissions from new cars. The new measurement method will be introduced gradually over the period 2017-2020. From September 2018, with some exceptions, all new passenger cars and certain vans should be reported with CO2 emissions data measured on the basis of the new measurement method. On average, the new measurement method is expected to increase the emission values to be reported for new cars, although the actual fuel consumption and emissions of new cars will not change. In this case, the average level of emission-based car and vehicle taxation in Finland would increase without the changes proposed by the government, the good government. Proposed modifications for cars measured with a new measurement method [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u5	All right, and then let's go to these speeches. Let's take a short debat. I would ask those who wish to use the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u6	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. Car tax is something that talks a lot, and I am sure it is good to get rid of it at some point in time and reform our fleet. But these emission scams, which were revealed here a few years ago, were based on the emission measurement that came into force in the 1980s, and it was said together that the system needs to be reformed. The emissions measurement system was out of date and now this EU harmonisation is on the way. This therefore has no impact on the taxation of cars already in use, but new cars do. There are a lot of details in this presentation. Some have even compared this to the war — the war of automobiles — because there are many problematic points here, such as the equipping of cars, the speed limits for campers, and many more. There is still work to be done for the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u7	Madam President! A technical matter that comes to us here to decide. It is good that the measurement of emissions from cars is being carried out and efforts are being made to achieve a low level of emissions in transport, but, overall, the collection of taxes on transport is very high. Different charges are collected from motorists, but these do not concern transport and the development of our road infrastructure. In fact, for the future, this should be made more sustainable. We should be able to make more of these payments, which we collect with various taxes and road user charges and so on, also to target the fact that we have the infrastructure to keep in better shape. The debt to repair is already beginning to be in the order that it might take us over a hundred years if we wanted to put all the roads in Finland in order. I would like to ask the Minister whether there will be any improvement in this over the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u8	Mr President! In this regard, Minister Orpo presented this proposal quite directly, although a little, however, this will increase vehicle taxation by 2 million. How does this apply to the government’s line of action when it is always promised that taxation will not rise? On the other hand, when the tax on cars, i.e. the tax on new cars, is it not now somewhat contradictory that, at the same time, the vehicle tax on these new cars should be increased over a couple of years? Furthermore, I would ask Minister Orpo: now that you have had time to review the decision of that government after Question Time, is your answer still the same that you are not going to change fuel taxation even if that price of crude oil goes up to $80?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u9	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here. Congressman Savola said that this is a technical matter. It may seem that way from our point of view, but it must be remembered that there are consumers on the other side, i.e. potential car buyers, and then there are car dealers. And even if, as the Minister said, this new method of measurement would not affect old cars, then with a long time span — or it might hit it quite quickly — the values of cars will change and people will wait to decide when to buy. How, then, has it now been noted that the car dealership is not going to hit the wall again? That the proposal, as Mr Heinonen said, is not entirely unproblematic, but it does contain a lot of technical issues which need to be considered exactly before this is adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u10	Madam President! Motorists have always been interested in taxes on motor vehicles. Tax changes always cause citizens to be confused and to reflect on how they will be affected in the near future. As the Minister said earlier, from the beginning of 2020 this will start. But now that there have been these various scams recently, the risk, of course, is that these tricksters are still ahead of us in this case. Does the Minister have any more detailed information on what is going on, is there a possibility of fraud in this new system? Moreover, when emissions are also significantly affected by outdoor temperatures and northern conditions, does this system now take account of our northern conditions?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u11	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister briefly when we are moving in the right direction and when it comes to car taxation, it is in particular climate change and emissions that we want to take forward: Now that the reform comes into force, has the Ministry considered the possibility that new technologies could reduce emissions from old cars? Would it be rewarding if technology developed to reduce emissions from old cars by technological development? Would it be a lure to create a carrot so that technology could develop in such a way that car emissions would also be reduced by the old car fleet?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u12	Madam President! We started a little in advance in the tax section today, which left us with a little impression that this is essentially technical and is being done because of changes in measurement methods and so that the tax levels are broadly the same, that is why this is being done. That's why I was a little scared that, for God's sake, the term was used here, that this is a car mess. I hope, Minister Orpo, that you will also be able to bear that tumult — we will see whether the government is going to stand up. President! In all seriousness, I think it is worth continuing to consult tomorrow, for example from the consumer's point of view, from the point of view of the car trade, from the point of view of the environment, that we carefully examine this whole, because it is clear that every time the systems are changed, there may be cases that go in the wrong direction. For example, there will be situations where environmental friendliness is not encouraged in the same way, although, in the main, environmentally friendly cars may even benefit a little, but there may be some problems. In the same way, if we find that something else is coming, we must pay attention to it, Mr President. Perhaps I ask the Minister: if these do not come in until after the committee procedure, when the system is applied, then how will you intervene? — Of course, I cannot predict what the outcome will be in committee,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u13	Mr President! Climate change is the most serious threat of our time, and we know that emissions from transport are one of the things we need to tackle, and that is why it is very justified that, according to CO2 emissions, taxation is also applied. This is an incentive both for car manufacturers and, of course, for car buyers as to the type of car and vehicle they purchase. We know that these measurements have been hit a little by various measurement scandals, and it is extremely important that we can count on the measurement results. This is probably something that needs to be regulated and monitored at international level by adequate standards. Of course, this change is mainly technical, but the aim should be that zero-emission cars will also be subject to zero taxation in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u14	Madam President! This has indeed started with these CO2 measurements and, if I may say so, a very clear fraud. After all, the CO2 debate is much of a bubble so that it is implied that, when measured accurately, traffic will then control these emissions. The aim is good, but it is something of faith that comes from the end of the exhaust pipe. Anyone who has been to a measuring event knows that the car normally does not push the pedal down and then see how many germs come out. It's not like anyone's driving in that kind of traffic. However, I myself would like to ask the Minister when a genuine car tax reform would have been introduced in Finland, the abolition of car tax and so on. It would be important for the acquisition and trade of new cars. This presentation, which is on the table today, has no practical significance for the car trade in any way. When it comes to a few tens per car on an annual basis, this does not have any commercial significance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u15	Madam President! This proposal has certainly been pushed forward and introduced as a technical tax change, i.e. it is not intended to influence the overall level of car taxation, if I have understood correctly, i.e. it is tax-neutral, and so on. This responds to this changed method of measuring emissions, and it is good that Finland also has this method that will be used in the EU. However, with this quick review, you can see that there is little room for correction in these details, and perhaps the most striking thing is that, in the case of the 137 g per kilometre of emissions, taxation will actually start to rise higher than in the case of cars of its size today, and if this section remains in force in this way, that this tax progression will increase in that category of emissions, it will lead to an increase in the number of large diesel vehicles imported when used and therefore to more recent ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u16	Mr President! It is not a bad thing that the measurement of emissions from cars becomes more truthful, and it is a good thing that this government proposal at least seeks to ensure that the total tax burden does not increase. It is also important to take account of these details, mentioned in several previous speeches, that they do not give rise to maladministration and falls between them. However, in general, it should be remembered that the vehicle tax is, however, a tax on property, regardless of wealth, even in such a way that the less well-off cannot afford a low-emission car, but has to pay a higher vehicle tax. Therefore, consideration should be given to making this payment reasonable at all. However, a car is a necessary commodity widely throughout the country, and the needs for use are diverse — space may be needed a lot, and then it is difficult for its car to be very low-emission.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u17	Madam President! This year, the temporary car tax will be 60 years old. Since 1958, propulsion has been taxed. I founded the Parliament's Car Club largely because for many years there has been talk of public transport and the conditions for public transport in the Chamber of Parliament, but very little about private motoring in relation to the fact that there are 2.5 million private drivers in Finland, long distances and a reasonably weak fleet of cars as measured by European standards, although we are at the top of many indicators in road safety. Diesel drivers are vaccinated — such feedback at Lahti Market and probably elsewhere — and commuting is expensive in your own car. Before we all drive electric cars and before someone comes up with the power to tax electric cars, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: would it be necessary to have a law on this car taxation other than this perhaps technical law, so that we can ensure that long-term transport policy is designed in a way that supports private motorists in a sustainable way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u18	Mr President! There are well-known examples in the world of the distortion of emission values and systematic fraud in recent years. The transition to WLTP will certainly improve the situation to some extent. It is important that we adapt the tax bases as the standard of measurement changes so that the tax level does not rise much. This will minimise the market failure of the car trade. The amendment to the Automotive Tax Act is intended to enter into force as early as 1 September this year, at the same time as the new measurement standard is becoming more important. We started the hearing in the Tax Section today in the form of a prior consultation, and I believe that Parliament will quickly bring this government's proposal into line with the law. It is essential for the functioning of the car market. The current high level of car taxation slows down
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u19	I would like to give three more replies to the request — Essayah, Eestilä and Ala-Nissilä — and then the Minister has the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u20	Madam President! As many colleagues have said here, these global emission scams are at the root of this change in measurement. This change in measurement method is aimed at more accurate vehicle fuel consumption and also at measuring CO2 emission values. Surely, as has been said, this is quite a technical change. The Minister said that because these tables were enforced, here comes an extra couple of million in return. The vehicle tax burden on the driver is about EUR 14-30; I am one of those who think that this is hardly a major market disturbance in that sense. But of course, when we talk about taxation on motor vehicles, it's always a pretty sensitive thing. I was wondering if it might have crossed my mind whether there was any way to compensate for this when it comes to such a technical issue, as it were, an additional return on the state treasury.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u21	Mr President! I call on the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance to look closely at how technical this change is. I do not know whether someone in this Chamber is going to create incentives for perhaps some 40,000 cars from Germany and elsewhere, Sweden, to be imported this year — just over 30,000 last year. If these tax tables go in such a way as to reward those cars that have been registered elsewhere before 1.9.2018, and their import to Finland is more profitable than buying a slightly bigger car here, then we will create incentives to search for second-hand cars in Finland outside the Finnish borders. I don't know how much the car dealership will thank you for such decisions. But I think the IRS will look into these. The second thing is, of course, the situation of cars already, legal certainty. If I were to make a fair decision, I would allow the car tax to come into force, which is cheaper for this buyer, either NEDC or WLTP-based.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u22	And one more response, Mr Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u23	Mr President! That's a good bill. When we looked at this motion in the tax section, these curves according to new technology and old technology, those curves go very close together so that it is not a big change. In a certain way, this relates to this scam, as mentioned here. I, too, had a car that was involved in an emission scam. No, it's not, Speaker, no more. Consumers must also make value choices: we do not buy cars that fool us; that is quite clear. I'll ask the minister: This car taxation is not included in indirect taxation, in the tax road map, but, as has been said here, a lot of taxes are collected, a lot of emissions targets have been set for transport. Should this, however, be included here in the whole of the tax road map when it is being carried out?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u24	And the Minister’s reply — that place can be spoken for up to 3 minutes. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u25	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, excellent questions. If we start with these big principles: in Finland, the taxation of vehicles, fuel, transport has long been developed and directed in the direction of reducing emissions, and I think that is the only way. Even in this case, the pricing of coal leads to the right behaviour. This solution is indeed intended to be as neutral as possible, and if there are more than technical matters here, then when the committee deals with this, they can be seen together in the normal way in good order. I do not see any obstacle to it, because there have been no political choices, but attempts to introduce new technologies, which are nevertheless beneficial to the consumer, and that is why there have been no other objectives in this reform. So that's what we can look at together. You can't make a war out of this — or we're really good at it. Then there are a few other questions. To this tax on traffic and motoring. I think it might be all right to think about the whole thing and think about it. The road map of taxation already contains all the taxes that have been invented. Maybe it's worth narrowing it down a little bit. However, when Parliament has a good parliamentary debate on transport policy, I believe that there can also be a debate on the development of the taxation of motor vehicles, the taxation of transport. On the other hand, when it comes to the collection of charges from transport and the rerouting of them to transport, we have again had decades of tradition in Finland, where transport has been regarded as one of the sources of taxation that has been able to generate income for other welfare, and that is how it must be, because we cannot, for example, work, try to tax harder — but where is that reasonable limit going? — and we must ensure that important transport investments, basic management and new projects can be managed sensibly. Mr Tavio, about this $80: I really did find out, and as an explanation it was from before I started as Minister of Finance, I think. But now the good news is that the world market price has fallen to $75 and oil production is better on the rise. But, of course, we respect the policies the government has taken. We'll see what we can do in the Let us hope that the price of oil does not go up, because that is probably a bigger goal than the fact that we have to pay the fuel tax. Mr Viitanen asked: "What if there are problems now? In my opinion, according to normal good practice, if problems arise with the application of taxation, then they must lead to measures in the direction of the tax authority and through the ministry in the direction of Parliament. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u26	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u30	Madam President! Changes in the car tax are always a problem in itself, because there is always a risk that the car trade will stop. We remember these discussions which took place about a year and a half ago when several car dealers were also in contact with us representatives. However, this draft law is not, of course, the case when more is said about the technical matter that has already been mentioned here. Emission measurements should be true. We've got to get these scams under control. These scams by big car giants that happened were classless, and I'm glad they got caught. It is good that this new method of measurement and the new legislation will also improve the situation. And, as I have already said, this does not, of course, cause any market disturbance. It would be important to renew the car tax rate above all. New cars are less emission and are also safer because they are more sophisticated. Therefore, a reduction in the car tax rate would be very desirable in the long run and in the future. We have already talked about how the car tax, fuel tax and other charges collected from private motorists, over EUR 8 billion, are many times higher than what we have in the infrastructure — basic maintenance, new bus projects and so on. This is something that we should be able to deal with and look at in the long run so that more of it can be restored to the infrastructure, because without a functioning infrastructure, without functional road connections, this country will not breathe, the economy of this country will not work and people will not move from one place to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u31	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here, so these details will probably not have to be repeated again. I believe that they will then be carefully assessed by the Tax Division through consultations. But what I want to say is that we have a lot of problems with this car tax, regardless of what we think about it. Of course it brings money to the Treasury. But it must be noted that the VAT on new cars is almost as high as the car tax. And what I am concerned about is that, when any change is made, the market and the car trade are very sensitive, they react in a very predictable way — who knows about these things, knows which direction. And what I am concerned about here is the great concern: I have already spoken many times in this Chamber about the fact that I do not think it makes sense for us to have climate objectives in transport. We must halve emissions by 2030, they are international agreements. Last year we had over 30,000 used cars from outside Finland's borders, they are mainly bigger cars, they are on average 8.9 years old, they release a lot, they are diesels. That's all people want. And when they are bought abroad, both money and value added tax will flow. Now, if there is some blackmail in these tables in the direction that it is clearly cheaper for people to consider buying a second or three-year-old used car abroad because it is taxed according to these former NEDC emissions, then we will actually create an incentive for our climate emissions to get out of hand. This is the point that should be taken into account in this table and in this government proposal. Then the big picture: Of course, we should get completely out of the car tax, but in such a way that it does not cause market failures. There are also clear systems for how it can be implemented. But it is excellent that the Minister has said here that this is going through very carefully in a good and constructive spirit of cooperation. Although this is a so-called technical reform, nevertheless all these external disturbances and multiplier effects must be analysed very carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u32	Madam President! In my previous speech, I said and still think that the possible increase of between EUR 14 and EUR 30 to that car tax burden is not necessarily what will cancel the car trade. But instead, like the representative In his good speech here, Mr Eestilä pointed out that, in these details, there is something of this kind in relation to this tax table, which creates incentives for even more people to go abroad and, in particular, to pick up these high-emission cars, that is certainly something that should be carefully examined then in the tax section, and I hope that particular attention will be paid to this. After all, the statistics at the moment show that... I think we have at the moment that Sweden is now the country from which the most used cars are imported when it was previously Germany. But those old diesels are happy to be brought across the border. And just as it was said here, then all the benefits of that acquisition, including VAT, and so forth, will be for the benefit of that country. In that sense, this is certainly a point that needs to be carefully considered and noticed that although you very often think so, a small tax may not necessarily have its guiding effect, then if it happens that this kind of incentive arises, it may then be of greater importance for someone who has already decided to acquire it in any case used a car.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u33	Mr President! The people really want cheap cars in Finland, cheaper cars. They are now the world's most expensive level in Finland. In that sense, of course, it is a good thing that you said that, in your opinion, the road to taxation on motor vehicles has been completed too — the fact that the EUR 8 billion is actually being taxed, from which then the EUR 1 billion will return to the maintenance of the road network, and so forth. But if you really think this is the case, it would be good if, in principle, there had been no such thing as a temporary increase in these newer cars, which will then be the subject of this. Then, to the government's promise, which you said was indeed the Minister of Finance, Alexander Stubb, and that that decision was made: I think quite soon after that you became Minister of Finance, so I would say that the decision taken by the government at the time has not, however, disappeared or freed you from that ministerial change. Now the price of crude oil in the Brent index is actually $74 today, and that is a huge variation, because when this price was exceeded, it also contributed to this Iranian nuclear treaty. Of course, it varies so much, but it has now been in the upturn trend, and the question is: if and when it goes to that $80 a little more permanently this year, will the government then deliver on the promise that has been made and which, in my opinion, will be binding? So to such an extent I would like the government to be prepared for that reduction in fuel tax, because, in fact, of the 8 billion that fuel taxation, as I recall, has the highest share, so it should at least be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u37	Madam President! This bill is quite valid, acceptable and necessary, thank you for it. There are many important points of view that have been overlooked in this debate. Mr Myllykoski, you also pointed out that people should also be better placed to make their vehicles more emission-efficient in different ways. For example, the biogas conversion agreed in the parliamentary working group is probably one of these. It is worth feeding them more because the Finnish car fleet is over 12 years old on average, and it is also a major challenge for us in terms of emissions policy. Not only do we need tax returns for many good purposes, but we also need to remember, as has already been mentioned here, that, at the moment, the repair debt for the road network and the network is so high that if we, for example, follow all the good proposals made by the Parliamentary Transport Network Group on how we are going to increase the budget for the management of the transport repair debt, then in practice we are preventing the growth of the repair debt, but we are not yet able to change direction properly. At this rate, it would take Finland over a hundred years to settle the network repair debt, and this is probably the kind of timeline that none of us want to wait for. Therefore, it would also be worth thinking about new ways of organising transport services without prejudice, and this is a delightfully much done in the Ministry of Transport. I would like to highlight individual project companies in investment. I think it is worth considering whether there could also be opportunities with commercial partners to reduce transport repair debts and, above all, to create new transport investments. This brings us to the fact that this will, of course, lead to some costs for the end user. I am sorry that, for example, the promotion of so-called road user charges — or congestion charges such as those spoken about in urban areas — has not progressed even at the legislative level, i.e. in Finland there is no possibility, within the framework of the legislation, to launch a congestion charge experiment, for example. I am not saying that there is a need for congestion charges in every area, but that if, for example, certain municipalities in the capital region decide to try this in some area, I think we should give them the opportunity to do so. On the basis of these experiments, we would then be able to determine whether these will ultimately be of benefit not only to travellers and transport but also to emissions reductions in transport. What is important, however, is that this 12-year planning to make the transport repair debt and the transport system and investment better is now continuing in parliamentary terms. I think it is worth all of us working on the idea that we will then genuinely also put into the programmes of the next governments the things we will hopefully get through together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u38	Madam President! There's been a lot of talk here about repair debt. Minister Orpo mentioned that a good government has made good decisions, and many times here the government has taken credit for economic growth. Now that the economy is growing, truck traffic is also increasing. You can see it on the road, and by the way you can see it on those roads: If you go near the city, there are narrow careers, because there is a lot of car traffic. Since we're going out, there's a lot of heavy traffic. Has this good government drawn attention to this issue, which at least we on the opposition side have drawn attention to? So now, if we want to see a further boost in the business world, would it not be worth investing from this 8.3 billion in the road that will contribute to that economic growth? Then there is the personal experience of these imported cars when they have been dealing with them: If you want a good car — because a good car is also good to drive, and now you have a lot of emphasis on that level of equipment — and take an imported car, a little used, it usually has a much better level of equipment than those purchased from home, but if you buy the same equipment for a new car, which is usually in imported cars, then the price of it will otherwise bounce considerably. Has this matter been taken into account at all when you have made these reports? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u39	Madam President! An excellent government proposal and a good description of our time, when climate policy is managed, among other things, by building better cars and making emissions lower. It is worth remembering, however, that it is worth investing more and more in the fact that we ourselves produce as many biofuels as possible, that renewable energy is mixed with fossil fuel as much as possible. It also serves this same goal, albeit a little different ways, and it is precisely the aim of this reduction in car taxes to an appropriate extent to rejuvenate the car fleet. Finland has one of the oldest car fleets in Europe; if you compare with the other Nordic countries, we are unfortunately at the end of the road there. The average age of cars is more than 12 years at the moment, so that it is worth investing in that side with tax incentives, that people renew their cars and then these older cars go out of service, which is also a good environmental act as such. However, on the transport side — as Mr Hakkarainen mentioned in his own speech — it is worth really investing in getting heavy traffic off the roads as much as possible. Of course, not everything must and should not be attempted, but rail transport should be increased as far as possible. And I'm still talking about that waterway traffic, because one inland waterway ship, if we put these systems in order, can easily get 10,000 cubes of stuff on board. I know that the forest industry is opposed to it, but that is not the reason for transport policy; it is the monopoly policy that guards the monopoly on buying wood that does not just create demand elsewhere on the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u40	Mr President! As has been pointed out, this proposal is in a big line of taxation, i.e. the focus on taxation is shifted towards the use of the car, and then, on the one hand, car taxation, which is falling, is a powerful environmental factor. In this context, the debate has expanded somewhat further to the financing and taxation of transport. We now know, as the Minister said, that, over the years, indirect taxation of transport has been used in welfare services, in the main categories, in the social and health section and in education, so we must cut it if we are to make a strong move on this income to the construction of the necessary transport infrastructure. We had a transport network task force. It was as usual the parliamentary working parties in this Parliament: they are not effective and they are more or less unsuccessful when the opposition does not go into any constructive cooperation at this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u41	Madam President! This parliamentary work, to which previous speeches have already referred: In my opinion, it is a good thing that we are looking beyond party boundaries and in the longer term at these infra-projects, and this should be done more, because it will also provide predictability for those regions then and will also be able to look forward to those needs according to the needs of the industry. But here too I would also like to draw attention to the fact that cross-border traffic is considered, for example on Highway 18 the only unbuilt highway-level connection is its correction between Myllymäki and Multia, and it is this sort of thing that parliamentaryly should look forward to. In the same parliamentary preparation, in the context of their discussions, we should take this car tax and, in general, these taxes on transport, and we should also look at them and think about how we can reform our car fleet and how we can also channel more of these resources into the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u42	Mr President! This government's proposal to amend the car tax and vehicle tax laws is indeed quite technical in itself, as has been mentioned many times during the debate. However, it is a good thing that this debate on transport taxation and transport charges is openly held here in Parliament. I believe that a general reduction in the taxation of transport is a shared desire of many parties, and that is also what the Minister of Finance has just pointed out here that, as far as possible, the government will contribute to the movement of Finns. Of course, this is also important for the industry. But I would also like to stress that the Committee on Finance and its tax section must now be particularly careful about the financial implications of this proposal, so that the burden of taxation and payment on motorists does not just rise. Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen mentioned the strong wear and tear caused by heavy traffic and its increase, which, of course, requires a number of basic improvements in the road network across Finland. I would now like to ask the Minister of Finance how he feels about the matter recorded in the Government Programme, as I recall, the introduction of a heavy-duty transport charge for lorries, which could then be compensated for by various reductions in charges for Finnish transport companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u43	Madam President! In fact, Mr Savio took the floor to the heart. It may be easier now to simply comment on Mr Hoskonen. My intermediate call meant that Mr Hakkarainen, here at previous sittings, knocked out the fact that our water channel traffic could be developed. I personally disagree with Mr Hakkarainen, because in the case of unsolicited transport, channel traffic is a very good and worthwhile thing. What Mr Hakkarainen said in his speech earlier about unloading and loading costs is certainly true, but perhaps it is that we in industry do not want the assets that are to be transported to remain in the balance sheets for a long time, but that rapid circulation is the objective. We should be able to see and distinguish between these two things. In the case of non-urgent transport, the water channel would be more exploitable. In fact, the parliamentary transport task force did not take into account in any way the fact that we have a water system that could be used to transport unsolicited, heavy goods vehicles.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u46	Congressman Hakkarainen. — The Minister then replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u47	Mr President! Right there in Myllykoski's comment: There is no urgent transport, but there is also environmental legislation ahead. At the beginning of July, these trees must be out of the country. You can't put them in the lake to rot and get in there. Where do you put them? Now the factories have those times, including the sawmills, which means that the tree moves very quickly from the stump to the factory silo. So that's the problem. And I think the market will answer. The Keitele-Päijenne channel has been made in due course — not even the stick of the stick has been watered from there. If it were so cheap and inexpensive or practical, they would certainly go there. I don't believe it until I see such a functioning, rational system in this business, that channel thing. Maybe then, if that channel of Kym ever came true, there could be some possibility, but such little routes and stuffing wooden platforms there, yes, it's hopeless.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u48	Then Minister Orphan, no more than three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u49	Mr President! First of all, I think Mr Myllykoski's idea is worth a study: if you make your car low-emission, could it also be reflected in the fees paid to it? I myself have experience of young Datsu's 120A F-II, and at least it motivates me, if that's all, to study. But to the point. I believe that there has been an excellent debate on transport policy on a wider scale. Transport is an essential part of Finland, Finland's survival, competitiveness, people's daily lives. We have very different needs and we must be able to take transport policy into account the different needs of the regions, the different needs of people. Something about a changing world tells us that 30 percent of today’s young age groups in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area carry out a driving licence, or rather a major change. At the same time, we have a huge technological change in which new technologies, less-emission cars, electric cars, biofuels and so on are constantly emerging. This has been a truly dramatic development and I believe that the fight against climate change will only further accelerate and accelerate this deployment of new technologies. Transport policy and transport taxation should therefore be seen as a whole. I think it is better to refrain from this change at the moment, to make a technical change, but you are quite right, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the taxation of transport as a whole, to look at environmental and climate issues, business policy issues and then the practical aspects of people's everyday life from that day-to-day price of driving. There will certainly now be a good space for this debate once again as we approach the next round and the various parties are considering the basis for future government programme negotiations. This is the $2 million here, isn't it? Although this technical change affects tens of thousands of cars that can be purchased, it has been possible to narrow down the amount of taxation that will be tightened during this transitional period. I do not think that this is such a big thing, and I would like to return to the point that if there is now something on the tax tables that is not of a technical nature but causes problems of incentive, then it can be returned to them in a proper manner, together with the committee. Finally, the evolution of oil prices and the record of the budgetary plan, on which Mr Tavio has again spoken. Indeed, if the price goes up to more than $80, then the government will review these tax solutions. I can promise you that we will certainly look at the whole thing and then look at the whole thing. But the important goal is that fuel prices do not get too high. Since it is also important for employment and for the purchasing power of people, it must be taken very seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u50	Congressman Hoskonen will be able to make it within this hour. If there are any further requests to speak, the debate will then proceed to that evening, later because the hour has now passed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u51	Madam President! In short, only this use of waterways, of which Mr Hakkarainen has just said that it will never be played, or by what term he described it. In any case, of course, no channel, if one channel is built somewhere, will help anything. The whole network has to be in order. If we build a section of the freeway in the middle of nowhere, one section of the freeway, what do you do with it when it's not connected to any traffic network? The Finnish forestry company UPM, which owns one of the world's largest pulp mills in Uruguay's Fray Bentos, produces more than one million tons of pulp per year. How does that time largely transport the raw material from the riverside to the world market? Along the river with barges and ships to the factory, and then on board the ships the finished product goes to the seashore, where it is hit by oceanships and brought to Europe across the ocean. So, UPM...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u52	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. One hour is reserved for this referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 5. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u53	Mr President! Reducing the administrative burden and reducing red tape has been one of the government's top projects since its launch in 2015. We have not seen a great leap in this area, but there have been individual, rather sensible, smaller, deregulation and reduction projects. It is to be hoped that this new national agency will not become a new administrative group with a high - paying director and officials to manage it when the Kingdom Voud Office and 22 enforcement agencies are included. Of course, this is not what we hope will happen, but we hope that the government's calculations of the gradual staff savings will be realised, but that the level of enforcement services and the legal protection of customers will not be jeopardised. This is whether it will be possible to follow up and, if necessary, take corrective action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u54	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government's proposal to change the enforcement cycle focuses on administration and organisation. I would have preferred this to have been done by the government to bring improvements that would ease the plight of people who have been put into enforcement. The inequality of Finns is reflected in our everyday lives. A mass exit problem has been created alongside mass unemployment. More than half a million people are in enforcement and have been displaced to live on the outer edges of society. Employment in low- and medium-paid jobs is prevented because, after enforcement, less wages are paid than income support. It is truly alarming that the number of persons under 30 years of age in the enforcement process has increased by over 4,300 compared to the previous year. There were 31,500 of them in all. In addition to young people, more and more pensioners are suffering from financial difficulties. The number of enforcement debtors over the age of 64 was around 32,000 — rising compared to the previous year by 2000 persons. Older people, the disabled and the unemployed are vulnerable to financial distress as a result of the social and health care charges in the public sector. Last year, 320,000 standard fees for health centres, hospitals, home services, institutions and dental care ended up in the enforcement process. In addition to these, 36,000 copies of the municipal early childhood care fee were imposed. Several municipalities and joint municipal authorities have sold the customer debt of residents to international recovery companies. This will increase costs and make it difficult for those who are already in difficulty to pay. One major flaw is the hiring of enforcement men. The problem is mentioned on page 15 of the government proposal, which assesses the current state of affairs. It reads as follows: ‘In the case of abductors, around a third part of the salary shall be paid in They are determined on the basis of the debtors' contributions. Although the system encourages good performance, there is a fundamental problem in the judicial process that the supplier’s own remuneration is determined partly by the decisions he makes. The type of payment invitation used, the timing and periodicity of payments, the months of leave given to debtors, the deferral of pay-out due to the period of unemployment or the reduction of arrest on grounds of sickness or other reason in the performance of pay affect the level of remuneration of the delivery man.’ Mr President! This old system must be abandoned. The enforcement officers are State officials in the same way as other officials and must carry out the assigned tasks in accordance with the laws and in a proper manner. Article 21 of the Code of Conduct prohibits the enforcementmen from seeking benefits: ‘the officer dealing with detention cases shall be able to take advantage of the information obtained, using the A profit-paying policy is incompatible with this section. You can't work for your own good. For example, the decision at the discretion of the enforcement officer whether to give the debtor a free month reduces his own salary. There is a great contradiction here. A month free of charge may be of vital importance to the debtor and its refusal will result in a worsening of the financial situation. I would have liked the Ministry of Justice, as an employer, to have opened labour market negotiations on the remuneration of enforcement men. This could have been corrected in the contract of employment and the contract of employment. In the next round of negotiations, it will have to be done at the latest. The bailiffs must be transferred to the staff of normal officials. Mr President! I hope that as many of you as possible will sign up to the SDP debate initiative, written by Mr Tolppanen, in which we propose that Parliament hold a topical debate on the plight of those who have been expelled and on how to improve their situation. This is a really comprehensive, big thing in our society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u55	Mr President! To begin with, I would have liked the minister concerned to be here, namely when we talk about enforcement, we are talking about 10% of Finns. That's a lot of people, but that's how many people there are in the expropriation. This bill, which is now under discussion here, is partly technical. It does not really improve the position of the debtor; on the contrary, sometimes it feels that the rope tightens even further around the neck. Now that the circuits are reduced, first of all, the bailiff is taken far from the people and no longer can we agree with the voud. Sometimes there are even some people with whom we can agree that we will now leave this Christmas out of the way so that you can get your family a Christmas, and we will do it again next year. This humanity is disappearing now. There may be more to it than that whether it is legally right or not, but it has been human. I will bring up three points of law that puzzled me greatly in this regard: It says: ‘In the event of an unlawful procedure or failure to comply with the obligation of the extractive authority, The administrative complaint shall be decided by the State or by the Head of Administration appointed by him.’ According to my sense of justice, this is Santa as guardian of the cabbage country. The same institution shall decide if an error has been made in the same establishment. Then, ‘the Ministry of Justice’. Should not all these complaints be resolved by the Ministry of Justice? Then: ‘If a notice is made in the notice that the respondent has made a faulty official or has failed to perform an action, This is, therefore, rightly supported by the fact that we are certainly not taking these things outside the house. Even the following paragraph, which amazes me, is also read in full so that you can understand why it wonders: ‘If abystander’s complaint is accepted,the State may,by itself,require a partial or full reimbursement of this reasonable legal costs if the existence of costs to the detriment of thebystander may be taken into account if the circumstances are considered to be unreasonable. The State may also be ordered to pay the costs of the party to the enforcement proceedings in the event of a manifest error which should have been corrected as a self-correction. Before imposing costs to be reimbursed by the State, the central administration of the enforcement institution shall be consulted.’ In other words, if the error has been committed and the complaint is lodged, the costs of this error or the costs of the proceedings may then be reimbursed to the person to whom the action has been taken by the authority. I would have liked to ask the minister concerned about this. And a third, which I also quote from here: I must say that I would have liked this passage of the law to have been completely removed from the enforcement box. This is a certificate of enforcement. Listen to me very carefully. ‘Everyone shall have the right to obtain a The following information recorded during the two years preceding the date of the request shall be entered in the certificate.’; So anyone can go to the bailiff and say that they want information about, say, representative Taavitsainen, right? Is this what this bill means? That's how I interpret it. But the minister isn't here. Now we can't ask. What I would have liked in this regard would have been that summary matters, i.e. non-controversial matters — when a person knows that I owe — could be transferred directly to enforcement if the person did not pay them for some reason. At least they should not be transferred to the collection agency first, which only increases costs. These include municipal social and health matters, dental bills, medical visits, surgery et cetera et cetera. Of course, we in the law elsewhere say that if these bills cause problems for the family's livelihood or prevent or impede the payment of statutory maintenance payments, these payments can be reduced or completely abolished, but this is a dead letter of the law in Finland, it is hardly used. In the case of enforcement at the moment, it is very easy for the costs to be higher than the debt itself. That is what this Chamber should be dealing with. The costs must never exceed the debt capital. This would be achieved if the interest rate law were amended and if the collection system were changed so that capital was collected first, then interest and only last expense. We have come up with a strange practice, that is to say, if a person owes a hundred to ten places and these inheritances are in enforcement, the repo man takes an example of ten each month — it is agreed that it is ten that is taken to shorten these debts — and he distributes it to the ten heirs to whom this person owes, i.e. each of them will receive EUR 1, and when our system first takes interest, then capital and then expenses, then the euro will not even be enough for those interest rates, and therefore the debt capital itself will increase all the time. This is a point where humanity is needed. However, the Finnish citizen is such an upright and upright citizen that his purpose, desire and hard work is to pay his debts, but it is reasonable to give him the opportunity to cope with his debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u56	Madam President! Although this is a reorganization of the authority's activities, i.e. the establishment of an enforcement body, it is not only Mr Taavitsainen but also Mr Taavitsainen's and Mr Taavitsainen's. Tolppanen has made good speeches in relation to the number of Finns who are actually affected by enforcement today, 10 per cent. The fact that different healthcare charges play a major role in enforcement is certainly worrying on the eve of the social welfare reform, especially since the legislation on customer fees has not yet been adopted here in the house. In that sense, if we think that even at these current levels of payment people are currently struggling with whether or not they are able to pay these health care contributions, and yet we today have a cap on payments and the like, then this raises the question of what kind of legislation we are going to be doing in the future, and that is something that needs to be taken into account. There is also this question of remuneration, which Tavitsainen raised in this connection: it is important to note that it is possible to say that few people are able to do the same for their own salary, so to speak, and surely this type of bonus pay is not appropriate for an independent authority. This situation of enforcement has also led to the fact that, since there is a check-out of wages, it is more attractive today for even a person who might be able to work then to remain in a situation where there is income support, in which case the income support will not be made such a check. Today we only have 30 cities that provide this kind of social credit. In other words, a person who could obtain such social credit would then be able to get rid of these debts, because this social credit is conditional on a person having, for example, an employment relationship or otherwise being able to show that he is constantly receiving continuous income. In that sense, there is one such thing now when we talk about the incentive traps, the big incentive trap for enforcement, which leaves people on the back of income support, because it is not worth taking the job because it weakens their life situation when they know that they have these debts in the enforcement. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this regulation provides for the offices of the enforcement service, for the delivery of large-scale enforcement of the territorial units of operation and also for the places of basic and specific enforcement. This gives a huge amount of regional power now for regulation, and in that sense I would like to see this taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u57	Madam President! There are, of course, two completely different issues to be distinguished in this respect: This administrative reform is certainly necessary, as experience suggests. It harmonises the practice and makes it simpler in that it also eliminates the possibility of infringing legal certainty by means of a very different type of procedure and by different approaches to cases. The other side is then this human side. There is always, you must remember, two parts: the holder and the debtor. Their interests differ very much from one another. The bailiff wants efficiency and speed, and the debtor wants humane treatment, which is fair and where the points that have also been well raised in these speeches are also. It is certainly necessary that such summary matters should be dealt with in a summation and legal manner at the speed possible in them, and the huge debts of enforcement, those close to bankruptcy and those related to bankruptcy — which require complex and legal certainty even for those who spend time — so that this debt does not have to wait indefinitely and also the debtor suffers. In other words, not only is the administration being reformed now, but it is also appropriate to go to the precise cleaning-up and management of the content of this enforcement, so that these matters do not exist at such a high rate of 10% as they are now. There are a very large number of these summarizing things there, but also modern society with its lures, as we know, takes control of many people and gets them to live beyond their means. The temptations are momentary, and money is readily available for them, and this passive can do more. There's never been a life like that before, and now there is. This is something the Minister of Justice needs to intervene at a very timely and speed. After all, the issue of enforcement has been reformed much since the 1990s, but, as we see, there is always a need to review this mess and look at today's needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u58	Mr President! This structural reform of the enforcement system, which now comes, then means that one national agency, that is, one mammoth agency, will be formed from the Kingdomvoud and 22 enforcement agencies, and that is one problem here. The problem here is that now the person in the enforcement and the vouti, the person in the enforcement and the enforcement man, do not face. Then things can no longer be settled and things can be moved forward as if more humanely. I see here that the further the administration is taken, the further the decision-making is taken, especially if it is spoken of as human, it is worse for the debtor. Of course, from the point of view of the person to whom we owe money, this is an improvement. I'm sure he'll get his money back more efficiently.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u59	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u60	Madam President! Excellent speeches have been made here, Mrs Taavitsainen and Mr Tolppanen, and Mrs Essayah has tried them, and I entirely agree with them. It is incomprehensible that, within the framework of social security contributions, when we go to hospital, health care, we use social services, there are more than 400,000 Finns in the area of inheritance. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has also partly criticised the activities of municipalities, i.e. it is even considered to be contrary to the spirit of the law. The municipalities themselves should collect their debts, and it is important that we should, for example, be able to create a system already in this period, before the regional reform or the reform of social security systems, in which those for whom EUR 25 is a large payment would be offered the possibility of reducing this payment by EUR 3 per month at that stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u61	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u68	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Forty-five minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the seventh item.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u98	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Forty-five minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the eighth item.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u102	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. Forty-five minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the 9th item.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u105	Mr President! This government proposal can once again be seen as a sign of a sensible norm. Less than ten years ago, the article to be repealed was introduced in a situation where the integration of properties into the district heating network was considered the most effective way of contributing to climate change mitigation. Since then, stricter regulation and more advanced technology have passed this section. For example, in regulation, a more efficient tool than the district heating network to slow down climate change has been the tightening of energy efficiency in buildings. Similarly, on the technological side a lot of power has been taken away by the rapid expansion of geothermal heat pumps, among other things. Mr President! Experts believe that the repeal of the article will have both good and bad effects. District heating companies would suffer most from the abolition of the section, but the increase in economic losses and economic risks they are experiencing is assumed to be temporary. On the other hand, consumer choice increases when consumers are allowed to choose the appropriate heating method. This free competition, in turn, contributes to the development of the industry. I therefore hope that this proposal will be dealt with in a timely and timely manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u106	Mr President! I am well aware of the purpose of this government's proposal. It is streamlining standards and creating opportunities for alternative forms of heating to be used in the station plan area. I'm a little sad, too. When the district heating network was built in time, the idea was that almost all the buildings in its area were covered by efficient and reliable heating. And in my municipality of Ilomants, all the big buildings in the village except one and a lot of detached houses, almost all terraced houses, all blocks of flats are in district heat. As far as small houses are concerned, this district heat has proved to be an extremely good form of heating, because it is reliable, practically carefree and also affordable, and, of course, it responds to growing heating needs. If, for a moment, more hot water is needed, it will adapt to that situation in the blink of an eye. So that system is extremely effective. It is worth remembering that, when the district heating boiler produces both electricity and heat, in very many cases at the same time — this CHP, of which many are aware, is an extremely fine Finnish innovation that makes efficiency rise above 90%, and then quick and efficient combustion ensures that little particles are produced in the atmosphere — this little bit hits the ear. I would like to see a more in-depth debate — I do not mean that this government's proposal — on the whole, on whether CHP production in this country is being respected anymore. The worst thing I can imagine is that we talk a lot about climate-friendly policies in this country and in this city, but at the same time coal is being driven into this city in huge quantities. As we remember, at the 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence last year, the City of Helsinki set a new record in the burning of coal. It was quite a great gift for an independent 100-year-old Finland to burn a new record in coal. In this respect, I believe that unnecessary smart-up should stop and genuinely try to get rid of that coal. It is not enough for me to make decisions of principle at council meetings and then put them on the breasts, that it is now done. It's still been a light year to get this thing right. If anyone tells me that I'm a hypocrite in this matter, you might want to visit Stockholm, which is twice as big as Helsinki. There, among other things, the Finnish company Fortum heats the city with a bio-based product and everything plays very well. That so much for the impossible mission, it's perfectly possible. All we need is official council decisions. And even in this house, when many Members of Parliament are sitting on the City Council of Helsinki, I hope that we will finally get to the right things and put an end to the unnecessary savvyness around this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u107	Mr. Speaker! In this regard, representatives of Wallinheimo and Hoskonen have explained the good qualities associated with the decision taken then ten years ago. The behaviour of the City of Helsinki in the use of coal is, in particular, a very harmful and wrong policy, and would like it to be abandoned. As far as district heating systems in such smaller cities and smaller communities are concerned, it has been overlooked that their contribution to the utilisation of Finnish energy is very high in the use of both wood and peat, which are important for employment. It is wonderful that in these areas they have been used in the district heating network. The negative side has been well observed to which Mrs Wallinheimo pointed out that the effects on price and thus on the accessibility of district heat and the expansion of the network are noticeable when the possibility — as has now been the case in certain situations — of not joining district heat has existed. That negative effect is obvious. But the fact that this also has a positive impact on district heating networks has been overlooked. It has become apparent quite recently that this district heating system can also be used on the contrary. Now it is heat and electricity-sharing, but with the dramatic development of modern forms of energy, photovoltaic power plants, heat recovery systems — it is a huge amount of heat energy, which even in an apartment building closes in the morning for about an hour out of the sewer, touching people for a few seconds, and it is completely wasted — the use of these forms of energy is important. And then it involves district heat, solar power and other advanced systems. The aim is to reverse this district heating system: these units, distributed units, generate heat and are distributed to households through this former heat-sharing system. There is a huge potential for this. Far from forgetting and considering the district heating system as a whole, it has new possibilities — to share heat and act as a cooling system — and it needs to be redeveloped.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u108	Mr President! This is indeed a good and important bureaucratic proposal from the government. To date, the situation has been that district heat in many of the municipalities and cities where district heating is a major form of heating has not been used in my opinion. In that sense, this is a good proposal to dismantle the law, that is to say, this section of the Land Use and Construction Act has not been used by many municipalities. But in the municipalities where it has been used, the situation has been that consumers, in practice those who have been obliged to join the district heating network, have not been able to influence the energy that they are acquiring. So if you think of a municipality that would use some fossil, non-renewable energy to produce district heat, then they could not have affected the heat or the way that heat is produced, what they buy, the energy production method. In that sense, I think this is taking us in the right direction: since consumers are increasingly environmentally conscious and want to favour domestic and renewable energy, this will also enable them to join the district heating network so far. On the other hand, in these regions, in the district heating companies, in the municipal companies that have not wanted to invest in this renewable energy — indeed, most of the major cities are now using coal and other non-renewable energy in the production of district heating — then, I hope, this will put even more pressure on these district heating companies to favour renewable energy, because I believe that the behaviour and consumption behaviour of consumers, including in energy, in the purchase of heat, will go further in this direction of renewable energy. A good presentation both from the environmental point of view and from the point of view of the functioning of the market economy and the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u109	Mr President! I agree with these earlier statements that this government proposal is moving in the right direction and is dismantling bureaucracy. Ten years ago, the obligation imposed by the Centre Party and the Coalition Party when they were in the government to join the district heating network is now being abolished under certain conditions. It is a step in the right direction to unbureaucraticism. The importance of CHP power plants as district heating and electricity plants has been highlighted here, among other things. They are indeed very energy efficient, and it is also easy to agree with that view. Our decision-makers here in Parliament should also contribute to the fact that these power stations can continue to operate under good conditions. Among other things, when I was in the tax section of the Committee on Finance, we had a number of discussions there about how, for example, fiscal policy could help these cogeneration plants to operate, and I hope that government parties will continue to invest in this. Indeed, this proposal improves the choice of heating systems for residents, consumers, especially those living in small houses. For example, geothermal heat is often a very cost-effective option, why is there no question of a new form of energy production, such as solar energy, but it must indeed be borne in mind that the conditions of the market economy will continue to apply. There is also this distributed heat recovery system, which was well highlighted here by the representative Juhantalo. These are all the futures. Yes, we have such good expertise in the energy sector here in Finland that we are in favour of developing it here in cooperation with companies and universities and possibly also getting an export product from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u110	Mr President! I believe that there have been extremely good speeches in this Chamber, and this will now cause district heating companies to reflect on their own behaviour and practices, precisely from the point of view that freedom of choice is indeed increasing and that consumers will then really be able to choose their own type of heating system. As Mr Honkonen said here, consumers are now well aware of the way in which these houses are then finally heated. This free competition will certainly contribute to the development of economic activity, and I believe that it is the district heating companies that are the ones who are the most exposed to the mirror to look at and develop the operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u111	Mr. Speaker! Although I am a representative of the Government Party, I must praise the efficiency and rapid insight when the government, in this case, with a great deal of focus on deregulation, drew attention to this fact that, in such a short time, a district heating system based on economic criteria can be used to explore the current perceptions and methods of changing the environment-friendly standard by giving up economic thinking and emphasising environmental friendliness. The combination of these two important points brings about such a great process. I am pleased that, above all, the representatives have drawn attention to the decentralised system, which is the future. It has been very little on the agenda, but it will play a very important role in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-05-ps-61.u112	Mr President! In the past, Mr Hoskonen referred, among other things, to this combined production of electricity and heat, which is then again linked to these major, mostly municipal district heating plants. It is true that when electricity prices have developed in recent years in the direction that electricity is quite cheap, and when CHP production has not been profitable and some of these plants have been turned into heat only, this is a pretty bad thing for our electricity grid. Now that this last few days have followed the moment in which electricity generation in Finland is produced, there has now been quite a lot of wind, so there will be quite a lot of wind power, but then again in other moments, especially in certain winter seasons, when that wind power does not come, then we would need this adjustment power for those very moments when the need for heat is at its highest. It would then be very sensible and best for the national economy to produce that electricity specifically in these CHP plants. In that way, I am very pleased that the government has now also decided on such a package of aid and has decided to support this CHP production and its development. I think that is extremely important. As Mr Hoskonen said earlier, it is a Finnish innovation and suitable for our circumstances and a very central part of our energy system and our energy security.
