ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that Mr Cheboi, Vice-President of the Kenyan Parliament, has arrived with his delegation to follow the plenary session. On behalf of Parliament, I warmly welcome honourable guests to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u3	The first question, the Socialist Group in Parliament, Mrs Torsti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u4	Mr President! Finland’s success is based on the fact that everyone can study regardless of their wealth. However, high school and vocational education have become too expensive for many. According to the youth barometer, up to half of those who dropped out of education report money as the cause. The importance of second degree has also been widely awakened. We need reforms. Yesterday OAJ proposed extending compulsory education to 19 years. In addition, the second level citizens' initiative, free of charge, exceeded the threshold of 50000 signatures, so the first citizens' initiative on education now comes before Parliament. This Parliament will therefore decide whether the current situation in which school can end in poverty will continue or whether we will make a major future reform. I ask, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, what is your position: do you accept the status quo, or are you ready for reform? Does the second degree hold?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u6	Let's stick to one minute of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u7	Mr President! Finland is a welfare society and we strongly believe in education and equal opportunities. It is quite clear that there cannot be a situation in Finland where one of our children and young people breaks the school path because the family cannot afford the cost of learning materials. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u8	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u9	Mr President! This is indeed an important issue, which is reflected in the messages we receive. On Twitter, I received a message yesterday: ‘Somehanseeevvk’s attitude-oriented,notwith birth. My attitude was due to depression, and the home crowds did not have the strength to motivate. If I had had to go back to school, I would have been really grateful for it today.” That's what Jenni wrote on Twitter. Indeed, the reform of secondary compulsory education has been examined for years: the State Economic Research Centre, the Economic Policy Review Council and last night the OAJ. All studies and proposals have come to the same conclusion, Minister: it is worth extending compulsory education and making the second stage free of charge. So this future reform has been clarified and the conclusion is unambiguous. It is now a question of lack of a decision, not of clarification. That is why I will continue to ask what your position is: should the second level be made free of charge without delay, rather than still dealing with the issue on which a decision is needed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u10	Mr President! The goal of the government is that each young person should complete at least a secondary degree and that is a common goal. The education guarantee in Finland has been made to work almost perfectly, so almost everyone can move from there to secondary school. But the suspension has been addressed during this term of government, including through the reform of vocational education and training, which now brings new means and also more personal support. I also think that the reasons for dropping out of education are often at an earlier stage. Even there, early childhood, we recognize the trends of exclusion that will then escalate at a later age. That is why we need to turn a strong eye to earlier years, to provide support for families, children and young people in that earlier stage and, for example, to invest in primary school, early education and to strengthen the opportunities for each student, young people, to study those basic knowledge and skills so that the completion of a secondary degree can be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u11	Let us stick to the one-minute speeches so that as many people as possible can comment on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u12	Mr President! This is basically a question of equality between children and young people, and when we have so much unemployment, poor families with children and so on, too many young people are forced to leave school because money is not enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u18	Mr President! In this debate, two different things were now mixed up: In other words, it started with second-degree costs and is a serious matter to which the government has set out to seek action and specific measures to influence it, and two options will be identified. In addition, we also have in the material box the fact that these fees can also be reduced, i.e. the cost of learning materials, for example through recycling, libraries, digital solutions and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u22	Mr President! Over the last three decades, more than 600,000 jobs have been lost in Finland, for which only primary education has been sufficient. Employment among those dependent on comprehensive school alone has fallen so that only 43 per cent are employed on the basis of comprehensive school alone, and only half of their working age is employed on the basis of comprehensive school alone. Indeed, it is a major social problem that there is a huge number of people of over 600,000 working age depending on primary education alone in Finland, and that the studies of some 10,000 young people still end in primary school for every age group. It is therefore absolutely necessary for us to secure at least that secondary education for every young person, and it is also not nice that the drop-out is often caused by expensive study tools — and this extension of compulsory education to cover this secondary qualification would eliminate this problem at the same time. That nine-year primary school has made sure that all children and young people do. Can we not now take this matter up and deal with it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u23	Mr President! As I said, we have a common goal that every young person should have at least a secondary degree, and that is what we must work towards, in order to achieve that goal every day. The training guarantee is important, i.e. everyone gets a seat at a different level, and there is already a reduction in suspension, for example through more personal support than vocational education and training reform. A study on the cost of learning is starting to start, looking for concrete solutions, and the government also has a programme in point 19 to prevent the exclusion of young people. It may sound a little like I am repeating myself, but this is an important point of view that the most impressive work we can do is to help in time, at an earlier stage. In other words, investments in early childhood education are important investments to bring the entire age group into early childhood education, as OAJ also makes a good point, and in addition to the development of comprehensive school, so that the motivation for learning is triggered that we have support for those young people, such as Minister Saarikon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u25	Mr President! Thousands and thousands of young people are left without a secondary degree in primary school each year. Up to 100,000 young people under 30 years of age have no secondary education. According to very recent data, even half of those who drop out of high school or amis are among the main reasons for the lack of money. That's why this is so important. Mr President! There are different views here. What am I supposed to do about this? The government's response was heard on the last day of February when the minister said in Yle's morning TV what to do if the money is not enough. The Minister said that the social welfare office would then, of course, be the first address. It cannot be, Minister, that if the money is not enough for education, then the answer of the government is: go to the social welfare office.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u28	Mr President! In this interview, I described the state of play and I said in the same sentence that the government is looking for impressive measures to address this issue. I also told you last week that we will launch a comprehensive study of this in order to clarify the options. Those options for addressing this problem may be entirely free of charge. But since it is a very expensive investment, EUR 100 million, it must be carefully considered whether it would perhaps be better spent if it were targeted, for example, instead of good-income learning materials, for example, to help young people at risk of exclusion and to develop education. Indeed, the second option in this report is to clarify the most impressive specific measures, because our common goal in this Chamber is that no one should be excluded, but we should be able to intervene early in those developments and ensure that the entire age group is able to complete its secondary education at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u30	Mr President! I do not believe that the students of high school and amis, those who find it difficult to make enough money for their studies and materials, are warmed up by the Minister of Education saying that he has paid attention to this issue. They're waiting for decisions. We already know that failure to have a secondary degree will have a significant impact on the whole of later adulthood and working life. This investment of around EUR 80 to 95 million, which this free second level would mean, as calculated by the Green Parliament's Information Service, is such a small amount in relation to the increase in the employment rate that young people receive in order to obtain a secondary degree that it would be worthwhile to do so. You also say, Minister, that we need to invest in early childhood education in order to tackle the problems in time. But you've cut from there, too. So now I ask the Minister for Finance, Orpo, whether you have a problem. Will you not give money to the Minister of Education on these matters, that education be invested, that freedom of payment be promoted, that groups be considered small and that
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u31	Mr President! As regards early childhood education, I would first like to remind you that the government made a very valuable and fine decision to exempt thousands of families from early childhood education fees and, at the same time, to reduce early childhood education fees for thousands of middle-income families. This was a very big decision. As far as early childhood education is concerned, the Minister of Education presented and the government launched a free-of-charge experiment in early childhood education. [Department: Good! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u32	The Blue Parliamentary Group had this as the main question, so at this point I will take Mr Elovaara.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u33	Mr President! I would like to say here to Mrs Lindtman that the social services paid for my high school book. It is not reasonable for estimates to be made here that this should not be the case. I am very grateful for that opportunity. One of the main problems of second-degree interruption is the lack of mental health work and prevention. Many students need support for coping, life management, and I would like to ask the minister in question: is it possible for us to train teachers already at primary school level to have the capacity to face mental health problems, to guide them forward and to increase this type of education, perhaps even to early childhood education?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u34	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Elovaara, for this speech. It certainly opened the eyes of many and brought its own experiences into this hall too. Sometimes it feels like we're getting pretty out of this conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u37	Mr President! True Finns are not in favour of bringing forward the compulsory education age under any circumstances, because a person’s life is short and his childhood is even shorter. As far as this free second stage is concerned, EUR 2500 is a large amount of money. Families have very different situations, and family situations may change suddenly: divorce, sickness, unemployment. What is extremely important is to ensure that every young person stays in this society. I would like to ask why, when we do a lot of business with these materials — they change every year, even if we do not need to change — we do not get involved in this when we talk about recycling, we talk about sustainable development. What is the government going to do about this business? And what will the government do about it when it has become clear to us that young people will be excluded, that no one will be excluded?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u38	Mr President! In Finland, schools and teachers choose the materials used in teaching and, of course, the teaching follows the curriculum drawn up by the National Board of Education, which is, fortunately, the government does not choose the learning materials in this country. But instead of what you drew attention to here: for example, books could be more efficiently recycled, used and used in a variety of ways in the future, even more widely in the future, such as libraries and library cooperation, digitalisation will bring new kinds of tools. In other words, this aspect is also important in this debate that these material costs can also be reduced in schools, and I know that in many municipalities this is already being done. I believe that this start-up study will give us a good opportunity to speed up this process from the point of view of the state as well, how, for example, to disseminate good practices that already exist in schools and to link, for example, the knowledge of libraries to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u39	Minister Terho, for a moment on the subject of study aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u40	Mr President! For the questioner and for many of the previous speakers: it is really possible to try to solve this whole of thematics also through study aid, for example, in such a way that we do not aim here to transfer everything possible to tax funding, but precisely to seek equality of opportunity, and then I can make a proposal, for example, which I have already made in my ministry to find out that there would be an increase in educational material for young people from low-income families. This would make the burden on taxpayers as small as possible, but maximum equality of opportunity. Indeed, we are looking into this possibility at the moment and then come back after the study.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u41	President! According to the recently published Amisbarometri, the majority of students are very satisfied with their studies in vocational education and training, even proud of this study. On the other hand, there are some concerns about vocational education and training: A significant proportion of students in vocational education and training have been forced to resort to speed bumps. There are certainly economic reasons for this, but equally a lack of economic education. Another concern is immobility. According to my memory, every fifth student in a vocational institution does not exercise at all. I would like to ask the Minister for Education: how would you contribute to vocational education, why not also to upper secondary school education, economic education and also to increased physical activity?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u42	Mr President! Very valuable. Economic education is very important and important in order to acquire basic skills, life management and the future, especially the skills that build up your daily life from there throughout the educational path from primary school onwards and before. The Mobility School project is a success story that I am happy to tell you about. In other words, we have been able to provide comprehensive schools with at least an hour of physical exercise for every day. It is already in use in almost all Finnish schools. In cooperation with Minister Terho, we have also launched pilots at a secondary level, including in vocational schools on how this concept would work, how to bring to secondary vocational education the exercise and such entities of self-care and healthy lifestyles and well-being. Similarly, this work will then be done there at an early stage,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u43	Mr President! It is intolerable that there are young people in Finland whose school path is not completed due to a lack of money. It is wrong for the equality of young people, but it is also harmful for society and the economy. Without education after comprehensive school, it is very difficult to find employment. The risk of unemployment is increasing and unemployment, on the other hand, is very costly for society and the individual. Second-degree free-of-charge could be achieved simply by raising compulsory schooling age. At that time, all young people should be offered a study place and free learning materials should also be provided. Mr President! The Minister says that free second grade and raising compulsory school age would be expensive, but is it not expensive when young people are excluded from working life without secondary education?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u44	Mr President! In my speech, I drew attention to what are the most impressive measures to prevent anyone from failing to complete or finish a secondary degree. That is what we must address, including in this report, which has been launched. I would like to stress and repeat that our common will is that no one should be left behind because of the lack of money. It does not fit into Finnish society. It is an unsustainable situation for equality of opportunity for us and that is why these solutions are needed and sought. But now we have to find the most effective means, the precise measures to help the target group. If we implement solutions for the whole age group, which in this case is still the perspective of the study, then there will be a lot of resources for the learning materials and computers of the well-off. It is quite right to ask in this study whether it is the most effective way of helping those who need the most help,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u45	Next question, the Finnish Parliament Group, Mrs Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u46	Mr President! Today, when the television cameras are turned off, an important debate will begin on the adaptation pensions of parliamentarians. At a time when the purchasing power of pensioners who have done the right job is weakening and we have half a million pensioners below the poverty line and even one in ten of the right pensioners fail to go to a doctor because we cannot afford to, we have an elite on the adjustment pension,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u49	Now the Minister responsible for the pension system is gone, but does one of the ministers want to answer in the absence of the Minister for Responsibility? Let us hope, of course, that the ministers concerned will be present, but does the Prime Minister want to? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u50	Mr President! These pension solutions for MPs have been resolved in Parliament, and this is also the way it is to be done this time. The President has successfully started the work on this, and on the basis of its work, Parliament will then make decisions. These are not the issues behind the government's proposal this time either, but the Parliament itself will resolve this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u51	Today we are indeed discussing this issue here in the Chamber, and there are also various measures that are going on, so let us come back to this many more times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u52	Mr President! According to the information available in the public domain, the use of an adaptation pension has been observed to be a harsh activity when, for example, capital income has been raised through one's own company, which does not affect the size of the adjustment pension. Such immorality must be prevented, and even without it such protection money must be removed. This is taxpayers' money, but the workers, entrepreneurs or other employees who collect taxes will never have this kind of protection income. At the same time as Finland's economy is rising, you, the good government, are not giving our real pensioners anything but rosaries. Ökyelite, on the other hand, pulsates with income that has not even earned. However, Minister, could you tell us what the government's position is on the abolition of adaptation pensions?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u53	When this is actually, just as you heard, not in the hands of the government, but in the hands of all of us, it would actually be me who will respond to it. But since I don't have that chance, does one of the ministers want to answer? — — — — Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u54	Mr President! In fact, I have already answered this, so this is a matter in the hands of Parliament, and I hope that the Group of the Finns Party will also contribute to this when this issue is discussed. There are certainly shortcomings in the system, and I believe that this is precisely the reason why the President has initiated this kind of inquiry. It's in the hands of the Parliament. The Government has not brought a proposal on this matter before, nor has it now, but is confident that Parliament will then decide on this matter in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u55	During this spring, it will be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u56	Next question, the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u57	Madam President! The Government Regional Act contains proposals for the reorganization of environmental management, partly in the provinces, partly in the new State Licensing and Control Agency in Creative, which have been overshadowed by the social dialogue. This would not be a problem if it did not jeopardise the independence of the decision-making of the authorities. There are many widely accepted issues in the proposals, but unfortunately they would deprive the environmental authorities of the right to complain about, for example, environmental permits against environmental laws for mining, peat recovery permits or pollution of migratory fish routes. That is why I ask Minister Tiilikainen: why does the government want to make a heavy-weight reduction in the control of public interest and legality in environmental matters? The central role of environmental management, the control of the public interest, is to fulfil the constitutional obligation to ensure that the healthy environment and the nature of Finns are cared for by the public authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u58	Mr President! The state authorisation and supervision authority established in the context of the regional reform will be an independent authority for compliance with environmental protection laws when carrying out the permit and supervision. The arguments you have put forward in this question are incorrect and without any basis. This public interest, which you raised in the question, will also be part of the statutory task of each Creative Worker who is working on the permit examination. We are not in the process of creating a system in which the authority complains about decisions made by itself, a co-worker complains about decisions made by another co-worker, but the whole new licensing and supervision agency acts as an independent licensing agency and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u59	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u60	Mr President! The situation is changing, Minister. When environmental authorities in different agencies are assembled under the same roof, they will be employed by the same authority in the future. Among other things, the Supreme Administrative Court, which considers it necessary to set up a public interest control unit in the new Creative Office and its decisions, has criticised this bill. There have been few and deliberate complaints from the authorities. The environmental authorities have only complained about about 3% of the permit decisions in the open and two thirds of these complaints have gone through the courts. The complaints made by the authorities have therefore been justified and justified, not by attempts to obstruct the projects. Law enforcement cannot be imposed solely on citizens and non-governmental organisations, who have the right but are not obliged to and often do not have the necessary information and resources to appeal against illegal decisions. It can't be that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u61	Mr President! At least I trust that every Finnish authority in its own statutory role will comply with Finnish law and will act according to it according to its best judgment and understanding.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u62	Mr President! Yes, the principles of the rule of law and the principles of Finnish society have included professional supervision of the legality of decisions taken by the authorities. At present, regional government agencies take permit decisions and environmental authorities in Ely Centres can complain about them as public-interest supervisors. In its opinion, the Supreme Administrative Court has also maintained the need to implement a similar arrangement within the Creative Office. Let me give you a few examples. The peat harvesting permit was revoked in Isojoki because its grantor had not taken into account the endangered brook or sea trout. There are other examples of peat extraction permits and mining permits. What magic trick are you now going to use to ensure that in future such mistakes will not be made in licensing decisions if they are professional?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u63	Mr President! I still do not think it appropriate for us to have an authority whose task is to appeal against its own decisions. I don't understand that. What you said about the Supreme Administrative Court statement: That statement, along with all other statements, has been taken into account in the drafting of the law. My own tripartite doctrine of power is that we have the legislative power, that Parliament decides on the government's proposal, that the authorities have the executive power and that the judiciary monitors whether the authorities have made the right decisions. I am not going to comment publicly on the decisions and statements of the judiciary, but that statement is taken into account in the normal drafting of the law, along with other statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u64	Mr President! It is not a question of complaining about its own decisions, as I understand it, but of complaining about incorrect decisions. This is quite clear when we see that the complaints made today by the Ely Centres have really been successful. Most of the complaints made by the Ely Centres have been found to be justified. Now this opportunity is removed from Finland, and it is indeed the case that the monitoring of the environment and the public interest is left to citizens and non-governmental organisations. Can this be in line with the rule of law, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u65	Mr President! The argument put forward by the questioner that monitoring would remain the responsibility of non-governmental organisations is not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u72	Next, the question of the parliamentary group of the Left Alliance, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u73	Mr President! In 2016, almost 400,000 social welfare and health care customer fees ended up in enforcement. The growth from the previous year is close to 20%, and experts estimate it to be due, among other things, to government cuts. It tells us in a harsh way how poor Finns cannot afford to suffer today's illness in Finland. Too high customer fees are a key factor in increasing inequality in Finnish care. That is why we find it extremely unusual that the overall reform of the legislation on customer fees prepared by the government is carried out on a different schedule than the reform of social security. Minister Saarikko, why is this reform of the legislation on customer fees brought to Parliament in the autumn from the rest of the social welfare reform, even though it is a key issue affecting social welfare reform and the equality of Finnish care?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u74	Mr President! Thank you to the Left Alliance for raising this issue. It is quite clear, first of all, that the whole thing is being said. Social welfare and health care services funded jointly by the social welfare reform and all of us, together with tax money, play the biggest part in practically everything that our tax money does. We're talking about over 20 billion. Customer fees raise revenue to organise these common services by around 1.4 billion. The biggest way of financing the system for all of us is to pay tax. Customer fees are largely in the hands of municipalities at the moment, and the legislation that regulates it dictates the maximum amount of customer fees that can be adjusted. As regards the reform of the Consumer Fees Act, what is essential is that it enters into force at the same time as the reform as a whole, and even more relevant is the Government's policy: we have stated that Finnish services are not intended to be financed more efficiently in the future through customer fees, but that the total amount will be kept on that scale, approximately 1.4 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u75	At this stage, I would like to respond directly to the questioner, because we have discussed and will follow up on the social and health reform last night.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u76	Mr President! The reason why we wanted to continue on this issue is that the answers we received yesterday in connection with the reform of the legislation on customer fees were not satisfactory to the left-wing parliamentary group. In addition to customer charges, this total amount is considerably higher than 1.4 billion. We are talking about almost 15% of the total funding for social welfare and health care. The government's social media math is not convincing. We are now moving towards a system in which market-based services contribute to increasing the costs of social and health care. The cost is also increased by the increase in the number of Finns covered by tax-funded services, as Finns currently use private services for their own account in the future use of these private services on the taxpayer's behalf. How, then, Minister Saarikko, is it possible to say that there is no plan to increase the share of customer fees in funding? Can you assure all low income Finns,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u77	Mr President! In the case of customer fees, there are two important preconditions that must be identified and known to Parliament when dealing with this major reform. Firstly, the Government will have no future objectives to strengthen this funding for our social and health care system by raising more people's fees. The current level of payment, about 1.4 billion, is to be kept as such, the proportion that is collected at a health centre, for example, and some municipalities have quite rightly released certain sections of the population, such as veteran citizens or the unemployed. The second part is where I noticed that yesterday's debate may have given rise to a misconception of some of the speeches you have made. The person went to a private or public service provider — the services to which the law entitles him — the customer fees are the same, and the customer fee is collected by the province, not a private company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u79	Next question, Swedish Parliament Group, representative Nylund.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u80	Mr President, värderade talman! Arbete ska alltid löna sig. SFP anser att löntagare brode få mera i handen. Beskattningen ska alltid sporra till arbete och företagsamhet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u81	Madam President! The OECD is right once again, and the RKP parliamentary group is on the right track. Work must always be worth it. Work must always be worthwhile, take it for an hour or a week or a month, and it is wrong that the extra work, the additional income you earn, may have to pay more than half the tax, in some cases marginal taxes may amount to more than 100 %. The government has been determined to do so by the fact that the taxation of labour has not been tightened up by anyone and, on the contrary, the taxation of people with low and medium incomes has been reduced from the outset by increasing the reduction in labour income by EUR 500 million. This has been a wise policy. It has supported employment, people's purchasing power, dismantled incentive traps. You should work and work hard. I believe that this policy should continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u82	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u83	Mr President, värderade talman! Tack för svaret. SFP anser att tyngdpunkten i beskattningen borde skiftas från arbete till consumtion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u84	Mr President! One of the central objectives of the government's tax policy has also been to bring the overall tax rate down, and with the decisions already taken, the overall tax rate will fall from there to the world record, from 44% to 42, and this must be very welcomed. Too high a total tax rate is sand for companies to drive, and it kills the desire to work. That is why the tax policy line that has been and should continue is to shift the focus from labour and enterprise taxation to indirect taxes and harmful taxes, environmental taxes, and thus make work more profitable. We have made this type of move, including last autumn when the budget for this year was made available to finance a reduction in the tax burden on labour by increasing environmental and energy taxes. Let us see — we are doing tax policy as a whole — what is possible, but the direction you painted is right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u85	Mr President! Here in Parliament, we have had a great deal of discussion about inequality and the increase in income disparities. I would now like to remind you that these tax reductions have been made by you during this parliamentary term at the expense of the weaker Finns, whether they are unemployed, families with children, pensioners or studying, education in general. Your tax reduction has been taken from these people's spines. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Orpo: how did you come to the conclusion that extra income from an additional hour would cost, for example, 39% of the annual income of EUR 25000 after final taxation? Is it not 22% and not 39% after final taxation? You're talking about a marginal tax, as if it were the truth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u86	Mr President! Firstly, this general approach to tax policy. We have indeed discussed it a great deal in this Chamber. I am still in favour of the solution we have reached by reducing taxation on low and medium incomes, especially on labour income. First we did this for half a billion dollars. Then, as part of the Kiki agreement, there was still concern that no one would be subject to higher taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u89	Mr President! Minister Orpo, a marginal tax is such a concept that is used for how taxation is balanced, but in fact annual incomes and their taxation determine it. You talk like wood when you talk about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u92	Mr President! I don't know what wood I'm talking about here, but I'm trying to represent you. The reason for this is that, if we achieve a reduction in the taxation of labour, it will encourage work. This has contributed to the fact that employment in Finland is currently improving at a record rate. We are about to reach the 72% employment rate we have set, government. As far as Finnish taxation is concerned, it is only so that a person thinks quite rationally, and when taxation is determined at that moment by the work, then the additional work will be taxed harder. Of course it will be evened out there at the end of the year, but this is the problem. If you do not know that, then you should go talk to employees about how encouraging the Finnish tax system is to accept additional work. You might want to talk to him.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u94	The next question, the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mrs Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u95	Madam President! The so-called Dublin Regulation has been in place so far in the EU, which means that the asylum seeker's application will be processed in the country where he crosses the EU's external border. However, the Dublin Regulation is now being amended and the negotiations have included a model in which, firstly, the EU countries would have a quota for these asylum seekers, and then, if that quota is exceeded, the automatic counting mechanism will transfer asylum seekers from one country to another. Countries refusing these receptions could get away with paying financial support to those countries that receive asylum seekers. If this is not agreed in the negotiations, this decision will probably be taken by qualified majority. To date, I believe that the Finnish Government has taken the view that asylum seekers are voluntarily admitted but that there was no willingness to enter the automatic allocation mechanism. I would like to know what the government's position is on this matter at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u96	Mr President! Firstly, its regulation is intended to seek to establish a new asylum system in the EU. Its main purpose is, in itself, to make the Dublin rule work. Unfortunately, this did not happen in the 2015-2016 crisis. There is still no clarity as to what model the Council is trying to agree on this year. Last Thursday I was in the Council of Ministers, where the situation was reviewed on the immigration situation, but compromise proposals are being twisted and considered. What is essential for us is precisely to make the Dublin rule work better and to be able to respond in an orderly manner to the situation of immigration in Europe, rather than chaos and soloism. The fundamental question that we have also raised is that the EU must also be part of the solution to the acute situation in which the countries that bear the burden, such as Finland, are:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u97	One more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u98	Madam President! These automatic models have not been supported by the Christian Democrats in the large committee because they have a knock-on effect on human smuggling and trafficking. Instead, we have wondered why there is no more talk of taking refugees directly from refugee camps.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u101	There has been talk of trying. In principle, everyone believes that it should be possible to move more quota refugees, i.e. to take the most in need directly from the camps, so that it is first established what the situation of the people is and then to be taken here. The current system is based on smuggling
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u106	Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, representative Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u107	Madam President! Plastic doesn't belong in nature. In addition to visible plastic debris, 40 tonnes of microplastics have been estimated to drain into the Baltic Sea each year. After all, microplastic is an undetected piece of plastic that contains environmental poison and even enters the body of animals and humans. Several European countries have taken action, and most recently our neighbour, Sweden, has banned, among other things, microplastic in cosmetics. My question is: what measures has the government taken to prevent microplastics from flowing into the environment and into our food chain? In my opinion, Finland should be a pioneer in environmental policy and not a follower.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u108	Mr President! Fortunately this is the case, which means that Finland is a pioneer in environmental policy, and many then ski after us as long as they can. This issue of microplastics is part of the wider plastic issue, and there are indeed various disadvantages for both organisms and ultimately for us humans. Of course, that microplastic in cosmetics is a so - called skin issue. Although it is a very small proportion of all microplastics, of course there is a need to reduce the unnecessary use of microplastics, and fortunately, many manufacturers have already started to give up all these microplastics in cosmetics. Finland hopes that this will be done jointly on the whole of the European Union, and that is what I stressed at the Environment Council. Instead, we have taken this plastic far more widely and we are going to draw up a plastic road map, which also addresses other plastic problems from the point of view of human health and the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u109	Let us take a supplementary question, Mr Sarkomaa, and then one more question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u110	Madam President! Yes, we need a stricter plastic policy and swifter measures. I do not think that waiting should be an option. One durable way to reduce plastic littering is the circular economy. On the other hand, we need a change in the method of use, because as much as 95% of plastic is used only once, then it is discarded. I therefore ask what measures the government has taken to boost the circular economy and to reduce the fact that disposable plastic is not used on such a large scale in Finland. I'm also asking if the government could investigate the possibility of a plastic tax. Commissioner Katainen has raised this very well at EU level, and I noticed that the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, has also spoken about this. Is it possible that we could find out if the plastic tax could be part of the solution when we try to eradicate plastic garbage?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u111	Mr President! I could not agree any more with Mr Sarkomaa that this plastic problem must be tackled quickly and vigorously. That is why, together with Minister Lintilä, we are setting up this group on the plastic road map, to which we have in fact called representative Hanna Kosonen's leader, experts from various ministries and, of course, operators from the industry. The aim is simply to reduce the use of plastic, to recycle plastics better and to replace some unnecessary plastics with other materials, such as wood-based materials. In recycling and promoting the circular economy, Finland is at the forefront of the world, and this is good. That's where we have to be. Solving this plastic problem is an extremely important issue. The Government intends to bring the report on plastic to the parliamentary debate next autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u112	And briefly, Minister Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u113	Madam President! Yes, plastic is a huge environmental challenge, a challenge for animals, biodiversity and human health. There is a great deal to be done about it, and I think it is good that this road map has been awakened and that this road map is actually being made at home. We have thought, at the Ministry of Finance's direction, of bringing a plastic tax into this as one element for examination, for consideration, because it could achieve major behavioural changes. A good example is the introduction of carbon taxation in Finland, the first in the world, in the 1990s, which has been an excellent way of taxing what is harmful and thus curbing its consumption. I believe that this is something we must now seriously consider in the field of plastics, and changes in behaviour must also be made through taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u114	And one more question. Central Parliamentary Group, represented by Ala-Nissilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u115	Madam President! I ask the Finns about the cost of living, and that is what we are concerned about in the parliamentary group in the centre. Good work has now been done to reduce the red tape in building housing, to facilitate the housing of students, but it may well be asked whether housing subsidies are correctly targeted when production aid is rather low
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u120	Mr President! The cost of living is especially due to the fact that where there is a shortage of dwellings, prices run away in both rented dwellings and owner-occupied dwellings. That is why the government's leading project has been to increase housing construction, and in fact I am glad that we currently have a larger volume of construction than for decades, and that this affordable housing production, which is supported by the government's own measures, is also at a higher level of production than in years. But we also need more action because the price of living is still high. We have reduced this regulation of housing, including the reduction of accessibility requirements, just today Mr Mykkänen has presented a proposal to reduce fire protection requirements, and we will continue this work. That cooperative model, to which the questioner refers, is an interesting model, which is used more in other parts of the world. The liquidator has put forward a motion to that effect. I would like to take it forward, and I hope that we will at least be able to pilot this issue during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u121	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u122	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors of this citizens' initiative for their good work and, at the same time, congratulate the fact that this issue of adaptation pensions for parliamentarians has finally been brought here in Parliament in such a way that this Parliament is now in considerable danger of getting or having to take a position on this matter, depending on the point of view, by means of a report and, if necessary, by voting on the report. For the first time in March 2013, therefore, five years ago, I myself, together with the citizens' initiative under discussion, have put forward a bill of virtually 100% the same content, in which I proposed the abolition of the adaptation pensions for parliamentarians and the transfer of all MPs to the adaptation allowance system, as is the case with this citizens' initiative. My own initiative did not then receive much publicity or support in Parliament, but now it seems that the situation has become different. I believe that this citizens' initiative now has a good chance of going through. The media must also be commended for this, because in 2016, when I tried to promote it for the new time, with the citizens' initiative, it did not raise more than 4,700 supporters, even though I had drafted my citizens' initiative in the form of a legislative initiative, up to the point. Even then, the time was not ripe, and the initiative did not attract much attention. Now the media have been working on it practically every week, which has shaped the political ground to become more fruitful. Mr President! Former President Maria Lohela, in her capacity as President, was the first influential representative who dared to address this issue, which is understandablely embarrassing and sensitive to many people in this benefit system, and she did so last year. I am pleased that the current President, Mr Risikko, has decided to continue. The good work that Lohela has started to do to resolve, correct, eliminate or, as I personally hope, to bring down the entire adaptation pension system more quickly, preferably putting an end to it by transferring all the present Members of Parliament in the context of the adaptation pension scheme to the adaptation allowance system, as proposed in the initiative. And if possible, adaptation pensions would also be abolished from those already enjoying them, moving them out of the Gold Pig Club through the adjustment money system. The monthly adjustment pension for thousands of euros, if necessary, until the person’s retirement pension is transferred to the elected MPs before 2011 is completely cheekless and disproportionate. It is in relation to ordinary citizens who have only limited earnings-related unemployment benefit, and it is in relation to elected MPs for the first time in the 2011 elections or subsequent elections, who have a limited duration and a level, for example, of low unemployment benefit in relation to earnings-related unemployment benefit, i.e. the adaptation allowance system. It is quite a privilege in relation to other candidates for the parliamentary elections to make spectacular election campaigns, knowing that if you do not get elected, society will finance the realisation of economic risk in practice in a princely manner. If there is no other income or even if there is, you do not have to go to work and capital income can be earned without an adjustment pension being cut. This possibility distorts political competition and we should not apologise for interference from anyone. Public examples also prove that the adaptation pension system is often used to the maximum of all loopholes, using and kneading. The credibility of the political system suffers far too much from the fact that some special individuals have been guaranteed this almost lifelong golden handshake. Mr President! When, before the 2011 parliamentary elections, the Parliament made a change in order to bring down the adaptation pension scheme, while leaving this privilege to the representatives of the parliament at the time for almost a lifetime of golden handshake, the Constitution was invoked, even though the Constitutional Committee was not even allowed to pronounce anything on this issue. I think the situation is now that we will also see in the Constitutional Committee whether the current throws will be able to cope with the constitutional protection enjoyed by the adaptation pensions of parliamentarians, in reality, by seawater. Mr President! The time has come to abolish the adaptation pension scheme for MPs from all MPs and to transfer both the former and the present MPs to the unemployment benefit scheme with a clearly lower level and a lower duration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u123	Mr President! It is quite clear that the current system has been misused, and it is great that, in due course, the current President, then President Niinistö, took action to make this system more reasonable, and now former President Lohela and current President Risikko have continued to take these steps to remedy these shortcomings. It is quite clear that changes need to be made. I personally hope, Mr President, that the parliamentary groups will now look for the means by which precisely these irregularities, abuses and loopholes will be eliminated from this law so that it will not be used in the way it has now been shown to be misused in public. It is not in anyone's interest; it must not be anyone's right either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u124	Mr. Speaker! I myself feel that it is good that this matter should now come to Parliament and that Parliament will take a position on this, as the President said in Question Time, during this spring. Unreasonable flaws in this system must certainly be removed, but it is interesting to have this retroactive interference in legislation and whether it will then be possible to take a stand in this Chamber on matters other than this adaptation pension for Members of Parliament. The present system will probably not work fairly towards such long-standing parliamentarians either, because the pension system should recognise the whole history of work, the merits of it, and the long-standing MPs here also experience injustice. There are many such MPs here. In my opinion, this is also a flaw in this system, so that it is important that there is now a very large-scale situation here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u125	Mr President! In fact, I was looking forward to this debate and I was expecting a slightly more lively debate, but, for some reason, after Question Time, the Chamber suddenly cleared out. But let's get this smaller group together, then we'll have this conversation. In fact, this adaptation pension for parliamentarians, already the name, tells us what is at stake. Is it that when you have ever become masters, so to speak, and for a certain time still being lords, you have to somehow adapt to a pension that helps you adapt to your normal life? However, in any case, I personally believe that this payment of an adaptation pension from now on or from the moment when Parliament, I hope, will take such a decision, could be put to an end and moved to this so-called adjustment allowance system, which is an unemployment benefit scheme for Members of Parliament. I don't think there's a constitutional problem here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u126	Mr President! Understandably, the adaptation pension is considered disproportionate and therefore Parliament has made a decision at the time to terminate the adaptation pension and to move on to this adaptation allowance. Surely the greatest emotion is aroused by these obvious abuses. There is the downside that it ignores capital income, which makes it possible to trick around that even though there is income, there is an adjustment pension, which is therefore intended to be an unemployment benefit. I would see for myself that, in this system, it is in my opinion for Members of Parliament to have some form of unemployment benefit, we should be in the same position as employees, but not less, that is to say, in the same position, that a system comparable to a system of earnings is, in my opinion, transparent and fair. As far as the opportunities for Members of Parliament to work after the mandate are concerned, it certainly varies greatly. Someone may have a so-called frozen office waiting, someone who can have no chance of returning to the work he did earlier. But that's where the government says to the unemployed that you need to be ready to retrain. You need to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u127	Mr President! An adjustment pension is, after all, a kind of relic, which does make it possible to be unreasonable. That is what has already been said with many mouths. But it is also good to note that, a long time ago, when an adaptation pension scheme for parliamentarians was provided for, time and the world were quite different. There was no unemployment benefit, and the intention was, in the first place, to protect, among other things, the left-wing MPs, who, after criticising the capitalists, were not expected to get any work, at least from the private sector,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u128	Mr President! Once again, we must praise this system of citizens' initiatives, which raises an important issue in the debate. Now, of course, it has been great that the Presidents have also been active in this regard and we are waiting for results. I think it is quite clear that people are also getting confused now with this old adjustment pension and now with this adjustment allowance. This system was corrected in 2011. Personally, I absolutely believe that the error of these dividends and capital income must be corrected and we must also listen, ladies and gentlemen, to the public's sense of justice here. This is, after all, an immoral gimmick that is not really acceptable to the Finnish MP.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u129	Mr President! Indeed, I would like to thank the citizens for this initiative, which has now arrived here in Parliament. Thank you also to Mrs Saarakkala for a very good opening speech. In time, I will remember your own bill and your own work on this matter. I already signed it then, and I have also signed a similar bill by Mr Rami Lehdo later. That is to say, an adaptation pension, an adjustment allowance to replace it, crystallized by my own view, in the same way that it was made for the parliamentarians who began in 2011 and then, that is, equality, a similar attitude, regardless of when they started their parliamentary career. The situation of other pensioners in this country has also been weakened retrospectively as Mrs Pakkanen reflected on it. On the other hand, it is quite commendable to think about whether retrospective legislation can be adopted, but at least the position of other pensioners in this country has been weakened retroactively. In other words, I would really like to have the same position as other employees, and when the jobs are over, then the same position.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u130	Mr President! It is quite clear, and it has been said unanimously in this debate too, that there are flaws in this old system and, above all, in how it is used in practice, of which, among other things, the Evening Journal has given many individual examples. It has procedures which, even in the light of this old and outdated system, are completely contradictory to its original ideas. Personally, I would like to see an orderly and cooperative approach to this issue. I understand that President Lohela and now President Risikko have commissioned various legal studies and have mapped out possible alternatives to change. I would hope that the necessary changes could be agreed by the parliamentary groups together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u131	Mr President! Mr Halmemenpää pointed out that, in his capacity as a Member of Parliament, he could be politically stigmatised to make it more difficult to get a job. I have not had that fear: I remember when I was a 20-year-old student in the forest sector, I heard how the big master of Metsähallitus had sworn in front of the Savukoski guys that he never paid the communist salary. That in that respect I have no longer had a great deal of fear of stigmatisation in my political career. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of representatives who have asked for the floor on this subject many hours ago. At this stage, I would like to give the floor to the representatives of Elo, Salolainen and Hoskonen, and then move on for a moment with Mrs Myllykoski's actual speech, and again after a while we would return to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u133	Mr President! Yes, this cup went down at the latest when you read about an ex-representative who works every other month and every other person off duty. Surely this idea has not existed even in the 1960s when this system has been decided upon. It is very important that Mr Lohela, in his time, started this study and now Mr Risikko continues, that is great, but there is a need for concreteity. Three things that should be corrected: In that legal text it is said that there must be a full-time job for this pension to end. No, you have to fix it, you can't do it part-time. Capital income has already been mentioned here. It needs to be taken into account. And thirdly, the incorporation of one's own work, which has also been tricked into giving it its full advantage. At least these three should be fixed. I think we should also ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion, but I believe that these can be corrected. As Mrs Zyskowicz has said here, I hope that consensus, consensus, group leaders in this negotiations will try to make a joint legislative proposal which could then be made in this Chamber. The government has had to make cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u134	Mr. Speaker! Mr Pakkanen drew attention here to one of the injustices of the pension system for MPs: it is the fact that there are two types of ministers here. There are ministers here who receive pension and ministers who do not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u141	Mr President! I share the view that injustices in this system must be corrected, and then that this type of thing, in which capital income, by speculation, takes on harder pensions, must be looked at and removed after that, that is definitely such a thing. I believe, as the President of Parliament, Paula Risikko, said in her good speech just now in Question Time, that this issue is under examination and will proceed through it. It is there that the chairmen of the parliamentary groups should be carrying your own message. It's the right forum now. But then one more observation about this system: It should also be borne in mind that when a Member of Parliament retires or falls from Parliament and, for example, is no longer able to work, the MP will never retire on earnings or receive labour market support. He'll be left empty if there's nothing. Then he has nothing. But you have to worry: when many may have been here, for example, for two seasons, fall out then, or three seasons and fall out,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u142	All right, now it's time for the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u143	Mr President! The citizens' initiative must be understood, and I must say that the people have woken up to excesses. After all, it is strange that we may have a 38-year-old pensioner up to the age of old age. At least the title should be different from the adaptation pension, perhaps it should then be the ‘incapacity pension’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u146	Mr President! As we know, MPs elected before 2011 will be entitled to an adaptation pension if they have served as MPs for at least seven years. The citizens' initiative now under discussion wants to intervene in this matter and remove it, just as we Finns do. At the beginning of 2011, the then Parliament decided that the adaptation pension scheme will continue to be maintained by the current MPs – if necessary, it will bring them a princely level of income up to the age of old age, even for tens of years. Thus, the representatives who started before 2011 secured themselves a princely livelihood, even if they did not work another day. We have been able to read a number of news reports on how former MPs of working age are raising large adaptive pensions at the same time also collecting huge capital income. First of all, this is really wrong for ordinary citizens, and it is also wrong that this also distorts competition between companies when the business of the former MP is supported in the form of an adaptation pension. The adjustment pension also serves as a start-up grant and, at the same time, as an additional income for the entrepreneur, even if he runs the business below the cost-cost price, thus distorting competition. The adjustment pension also provides additional income if the former MP is not in the mood to work full-time or at all. And if a former MP has retired from gainful employment at the age of 65, he has also been able to receive an adjustment pension in addition to his or her earnings-related pension until the age of 65. There are still some 150 former and current MPs entitled to the monthly adjustment pension for thousands of euros. This means that Finnish taxpayers will pay adjustment pensions for tens of millions of euros over the next decades. Last year, adaptation pensions were paid for more than EUR 1.3 million to former MPs of working age, while nearly half a million real pensioners live below the poverty line in Finland. As early as April 2016, I submitted a bill in line with the citizens' initiative, which proposed the abolition of the adaptation pension scheme. Although the bill did not progress at the time, it still stimulated the media and citizens to discuss and report on the adjustment pension and its injustice. The adjustment pension is a disproportionate and generous unemployment benefit for former MPs and a supplement to income that is not affected by government cuts. The adjustment pension will be increased even if it is not actually needed, and without blurring it out, it will be misused. One might say that adaptation pension causes laziness and greed. Mr President! At the beginning of this month, the citizens' initiative to abolish the adaptation pension collected a total of 70,000 confirmed declarations of support. I hope that Parliament will have the backbone to put an end to this remnant, which is no longer the present day. Yes, MPs should adapt back to normal working life, while at the same time citizens are required to adapt to changing labour markets and to retrain and seek work at a longer distance. The aim of the citizens' initiative is to encourage MPs entitled to an adaptation pension to be employed after their parliamentary duties. This is in line with the government's active model of encouraging the unemployed to work. — — — — The active model actually activated the citizens: it gave impetus to this citizens' initiative, both on adaptation pensions and on the abolition of the active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u147	Mr President! Let me say at the outset that I am not going to be on an adjustment pension, even though I am no longer working in this house after next year's parliamentary elections. I do not believe that any representative of the best working age in advance dreams of an adjustment pension, whether he leaves this house of his own accord or not, that is, the will of the people, of the electorate. Most people, like me, have or will certainly have other plans, and that is why I am free to say what I think about this because I am not talking about my own business. I think, Mr President, that this debate on the adjustment pension has reached an excessive level. The debate has left the shoulder, so to speak, and in its unilaterality it has produced much more heat than light. For example, the debate has not given much thought to what, from the point of view of the legislative principles of the Finnish people, i.e. the rule of law, would mean if the existing pension scheme for elected MPs was abolished before 2011 or converted into an adaptation allowance. That would mean introducing retroactive legislation which would then change the conditions which existed when a future representative, in good faith, agreed to be a candidate and perhaps gave up his civilian work after being elected to Parliament. It is not customary for the Finnish Parliament to engage in retrospective legislation. On the contrary, the Finnish Parliament has avoided retroactive legislation. The last time this house, according to legal scholars, did or actually had to do this, it was the 1940s and there was a war-guilty trial. Colleagues, are adaptation pensions really comparable?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u148	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Wallin for her very thoughtful speech, one that I am sure gave many people to think about both in this Chamber and in the gallery, the representatives of the media and those who may be following this broadcast. There was quite a lot to think about, especially after what has been deliberately fomented. The citizens' initiative system is a good system and must be taken seriously in this house. As I said in my debate, I think that the marching order might be all right, that when the pressure on the tabloids was made such a system that today does not bear all the scrutiny, let us go in another way. The first thing we should do is take away this gimmick with capital income, then look at the system as a whole, do a thorough job, do it once properly and then be confident that it will also withstand the pressure of time and follow its time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u153	Mr President! The adaptation pension for MPs, by which I mean the adaptation pension for MPs elected before 2011, is currently not up-to-date. That is why this citizens' initiative is welcome in this Chamber, because it is understandablely causing a lot of debate, while at the same time there has been an active model and otherwise weakening. If one considers the image of the representative’s work, that role should also give such an image and then act according to the values that lead forward. In other words, there is a shortage here, so, on the other hand, a Member of Parliament should not live more widely than it is conventional for the legislator to have. However, any retroactive legislation poses its own challenges. Well, despite the rich headlines in the tabloids, the principle of adaptation pensions and allowances is necessary, as has been pointed out here. For example, the adjustment allowance allows for re-training in situations where the ability to work or the skills of an unelected MP is no longer possible to return to a previous post. It is also important that important decisions can be taken, even difficult decisions, until the end of the parliamentary term, and not just the next elections, their own fall. In that sense too, the adjustment money will help if it does fall. The adjustment allowance ensures that, after a responsible decision and a fall from Parliament, the representative has been able to make a living until that new job is found. On the other hand, the problem is the behaviour of some people who neglect the principle of an adaptation pension. The purpose of the adjustment pension is certainly not to allow world travel for the representative who left the parliamentary work behind. It is therefore morally untenable to make use of a pension or adjustment allowance in a way which, for example, has been sought by law in the case of a bailiff debtor or an invalidity pensioner. The Act on the Pensions of MPs should therefore be specified as regards the impact and definition of remuneration and entrepreneurial income during the pension period. Firstly, the obligation to declare the income received during the adaptation pension must be tightened up. A statement of revenue shall be required for each calendar year ex post. This would make it possible to monitor the accuracy of the reports. If the representative were to exceed the income limit, the pension paid would be collected, just as in the past, by other employees or by beneficiaries of different benefits. Mr President! Parliament and representatives of parliament must act in a manner that is worthy of their dignity, even after the end of their parliamentary representation. Adjustment pension policies need to be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u154	Mr President! The citizens' initiative now under discussion concerns the abolition of the adaptation pension for MPs. The subject has been widely publicised, and the issue is perceived to be important among citizens, as is the case with over 70,000 signatures of the initiative. I would therefore like to express my thanks to the authors of the initiative. Time and again, the citizens' initiative has proved to be an important and useful driver of societal change for citizens. Through it, more and more injustices have been subjected to political decision-making, and I believe that initiatives will continue to be an important factor. Thanks also have to be given to Rami Lehto, the representative of the Finnish People's Parliament, who was on the top of the people's pulse, who made a similar bill as early as 2016. I am fully in favour of this citizens' initiative as well as of this legislative initiative. Mr President! The adaptation pension is a model example of the kind of back patting that we should get rid of here in Parliament. This pension system was created in the past because it was genuinely difficult to employ a Member of Parliament who fell from Parliament. However, the world is changing, and the unemployment system, which is unquestionably unique throughout the world, must be re-evaluated. In its current form, adaptation pension is a waste of history. In the last period, corrective movements were made in the right direction, and the elected representatives will no longer be entitled to an adaptation pension after 2011. In the past, however, there was no courage to address the benefits achieved. Now you have to have that courage. Mr President! The media has had cat days when it reported on former MPs enjoying an adaptation pension. Most of them are fully capable of working and often receive part-time pay or capital income in addition to their pension. Justice and reason are far from here. The appreciation of politicians has not been very high in the first place, but this further undermines the confidence of the people. At the same time, the support cutters of the active model wave to others. The main fault of the adjustment pension is that it may not be interrupted even if the adaptor receives money from some other activity. In addition, the duration of the pension is totally unwarranted. We have examples where you can enjoy an adaptation pension for up to ten years. At least being a member of parliament does not make you disabled or otherwise incapable of working, perhaps not willing to work. Mr President! Former and current MPs entitled to an adaptation pension are in a privileged position compared to both citizens and elected MPs since 2011. The simplest way forward would be to scrap not only the adjustment pension but also the current adjustment allowance. Former and future MPs, but also citizens, would be on the same line if the adjustment allowance system were turned into a earnings-related or equivalent system. Systems that put people in an unequal position should not be maintained. On the basis of the above, it is easy for me to support this initiative and once again to thank its initiators.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u155	Mr President! In due course, the adaptation pension for MPs was created to safeguard the post-Parliamentary life and livelihood of MPs whose cause and representation are not the most profitable. It must be clear that we will continue to need a system that will safeguard the right and the opportunity to speak frankly and without thinking about what is worthwhile and what needs to be promoted, so that time after your parliamentary career will be secured. It is also worth remembering that fewer than 30 former MPs currently benefit from the old adaptation pension. The cost of the system is approximately EUR 1.3 million. In other words, no matter how much we amplify our emotions, we talk about a very small problem on the scale of the economy and of Finland's annual budget of about EUR 55 billion. In terms of the sense of justice, it is more important, and that is why this initiative deserves careful analysis of its worth. In particular, recent distortions between adjustment pensions, the avoidance of wage income on the one hand and capital income on the other force us to reflect on the details of the system. It is absolutely wrong to giggle on an adjustment pension, and it is absolutely right to secure at least the level of the wage and salary earner once he has made a full-time contribution to social engagement for a long time. I have discussed the fate of the old adaptation pension for MPs with a number of people, such as the constitutional professor, the committee adviser and the former Minister for Justice. All of them see two solutions. The first option is that old adaptation pensions should be adjusted so that capital income is also calculated as a condition for obtaining them. The experts I have spoken about also see this as possible from the point of view of the Constitution, because the original purpose of adaptation pensions was to secure a living after a political career. According to experts, the calculation of capital income would ensure that this is the starting point, i.e. it would be a legal act in itself. The second option is to try to change the system retrospectively to reflect more of the general unemployment benefit system. The main problem in this is, in the opinion of the experts, our Constitution, which clearly prevents the adoption of retroactive legislation. In time, those who have sought and made their way into the house have come by assuming that their protection will apply to them. It can be trusted even if a political career eats up professional credibility, which has happened to myself, among other things. No one's gonna hire me to be a journalist anymore with this political stamp on my forehead. That is the price I myself pay for democracy and social influence. So I say to all the Members of Parliament who come here, that it is worth remembering that when the career here ends, we will be political problem waste, which sometimes ends well, sometimes it will end badly. I've had a fairly good turn of events for myself. I have fallen once from Parliament and have also managed to find employment elsewhere, so I am not very worried about my own destiny, even though I am covered by this notorious adjustment pension. But instead, I know quite a few other representatives who have lost their professional credibility, but have not found anything new. It certainly does not encourage us to risk our own future because of political activity. This impossibility of retroactive legislation was also the reason why, when the system was corrected in 2011, it was only corrected for future representatives and their pensions. Although it is difficult to change retroactive legislation, I have had a discussion with these policy and legal professionals about where the retroactive change and the abolition of adaptation pensions would end if possible. All of them consider it clear that the change would force a reassessment of the situation of MPs from the perspective of labour law as a whole. Firstly, comparing our system of remuneration and pensions and linking it with the equivalent of employees would also force the opening of a system of remuneration for MPs, which, as bad as it may sound, has fallen behind the wage level of employees, at least since 2000. Since then, it is said that wages have risen by about 40% on average, public sector wages by more than 45%, but those of MPs by only 29%. These figures are a few years old, but I still think they are very indicative, because even in recent years there has been no level increase in premiums. In practice, therefore, offsetting the differences would mean a significant increase in our fees, which would certainly not make the Finns happy or comforted in this situation. A mere equalisation of the rise to the wage and salary earners would mean raising our premiums by over EUR 1000 per month. How's that sound? The transition to the wage and salary earners system would also require a change in the adjustment allowance system of current representatives who started in 2011 or later, which is often compared in the public domain to the earnings-related daily allowance of the worker, but which is actually worse than the unemployment benefit of the employee. After four years of work, an employee who earns EUR 6400 will receive some EUR 2,400 after becoming unemployed for a year and a half, that is, 400 days. On the other hand, a Member of Parliament who earns the same amount will receive less than EUR 1800 for one year, for example, after a period of four years. After two periods, i.e. after eight years, he would receive EUR 2050 for two years, which means that security is already slightly larger but still lower than that of the employee. At the same time, our work should be guided, like employees, by a working time law, which would mean only eight hours for us. In the future, working hours would be clarified to end at 5 p.m. and it would change all the practices in this house, because quite a few of us spend their everyday evening talking in this Chamber. In the future, such a game would not pull — even this debate would not take place at this time. But, as has been said, the Constitution may be an obstacle to these plans. It is good that the group of professionals is considering what is reasonable and, above all, possible. Mr President! The most interesting part of this debate is where the value of this work goes, on the one hand, in the eyes of the public, on the other hand, in the press and, thirdly, in our own eyes. Sometimes it feels like Finns always realize that a lot of us work hard, work hard, work hard on their leisure, sleep, family life and actually do their best. After the elections, the situation will easily change, so that many suddenly feel that we are merely pursuing our own interests. The press is clear about this shit. I have never, not once, seen a story about high-end working days or speeches at five in the morning. Not a single thing about us working in museum-protected conditions where work ergonomics and electric tables can only be dreamt of. Not a single thing about the fact that at least 10% of the representatives in the house are actually over retirement age and thus save pension costs, because they are not, of course, paid in this trust. I have no case, either directly or indirectly, of the mental burden of suspicion, accusations, questioning motives or any other suspicion, or even of a direct threat of physical violence against Members of Parliament. Some of my colleagues have even had to be protected by the police. Instead, we get to read about long summer vacations regularly in the magazines. A lot of people around me always ask me how my days in August or January can be so full of meetings and meetings, even though the newspapers assure me that I am on vacation. In the same way, while I was absent from Parliament, I was able to defend my colleagues who, for example, make a lot of use of their taxi benefits in the capital region or who do not make much use of their right to speak in this Chamber. Both media-sexy and listing these things in the afternoon paper may be, neither of us measure our actual efficiency or inefficiency, nor our skills or our incompetence, nor wastefulness nor thrift. And that's what I'm saying, even though, as an enthusiastic cyclist myself, I can't get to the top of the taxi statistics, and even if I can't get to the top of the statistics as a reasonably enthusiastic speaker, I can't get to the top of the statistics. Nevertheless, I am calling for fair and, in particular, transparent rules and practices, and that is what I myself want to promote. But let's go back to the adjustment pension. Life and work appear quite different when you look at things from different angles. It is also clear that we are going to end up [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u158	Mr President! Mr Wallin, Mr Mustajärvi and Mr Järvinen gave a very good speech on the importance of our own appreciation of this work as a representative of the European Parliament. Of course, these issues are also balancing with the views of the media and the public, and we have all received a great deal of feedback on how unfair these adaptation pensions are when, at the same time, active models are being made, various cuts to social aid are being made. I personally think it is important to modify adaptation pensions, and the minimum is that these loopholes are blocked, i.e. that abuses cannot be made, for example, in terms of capital income, such as dividend income. It easily gives the impression that an adaptation pension is a basic income for a former MP, on which he can then make other incomes. That cannot be the practice when, at the same time, the possibilities of normal basic income are examined, which is considerably less than this adaptation pension for a Member of Parliament. One option that can also be corrected is to move towards a low level of unemployment benefit similar to that of other unemployed people, i.e. to the mere use of the adjustment allowance and to apply it for example for 400 days, as has been the case with an earnings-related daily allowance. I also find it a little problematic about this retroactive interference in benefits. It has been said here that certain other pensions have been addressed, but in a certain way I would still be very careful to do so, because it can then be the key to many other pensions, and I think that they are in the right way under the protection of the Constitution. I think it is important that this is indeed the subject of a debate between the parliamentary parties and that solutions be considered, particularly in order to remedy these abuses, so that what the President said earlier today actually happens that a solution will be found during the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u159	Mr President! This adjustment pension is unfair. This is not just about ripping the tabloids, what happens a lot, it is really unfair. This is rather a non-adaptation pension, which is also misused. There has been talk here that we are taking a political risk. Yes, I know I take a political risk, but entrepreneurs take a risk every day. People take risks every day in this life. Some can't be more equal than others when we take risks. In economic terms, I know that this is not a very significant sum, but this is a matter of principle. The citizens' initiative is a very good system, where citizens can tell us what things they want us to discuss here and what they want to remedy. In Switzerland, this democratic process has gone so far that there is even a direct democracy. In other words, when citizens get upset about something or feel that something is unfair, they collect a certain number of names, it becomes a popular vote and it is binding. The referendums in Switzerland are binding. There is a very fair society, it is a very competitive society. Yes, democracy is that we listen to the people, and that is how we deserve the confidence of our citizens. If citizens feel that something is unfair, it is driving the gap between a politician and a citizen. The secret of good leadership is trust, and such injustices undermine that confidence. If we think about the concrete situation, me and Representative Elomaa are nurses. Elomaa voted for me and did a lot of election campaigns for me, and I was able to come to Parliament to drive the nurses' affairs and the things I promised the citizens. Then, for one reason or another, I fell from the parliament and was no longer elected. After that, I would stay home and read women’s magazines while Elomaa was still printing the nurse’s work. Then we could have coffee once in a while, and I'd just have a little bigger money every month. In other words, in concrete terms such situations must not be possible. Yes, injustices must be rectified, and that is why this initiative is here on our table. So it is now a question of us being for the people. The citizens want a correction to this effect. I support this initiative and have also signed the Rami Lehdo bill on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u160	Mr President! There has been a good and constructive debate here on a subject which, perhaps at first glance, would be a little more of a different kind of speech, but it is great that this Chamber has also been able to discuss this subject in a constructive spirit and seek solutions. In my view, two things have arisen during this debate, of which there is a reasonable degree of unity in this Chamber. The first is that there are shortcomings in this current system and that they must be addressed. This is certainly the work that is currently under way in the preparation of civil servants, and I hope that the various parliamentary groups will look for this unity in further work and thus reach a lasting solution this spring. The second, however, is that, in my opinion, there is a reasonable consensus here, that even this difficult issue, or perhaps a difficult one, should not, however, be the subject of excessive or excessive speeches, that who now promises the worst interests to them, who sits in this Chamber? This already shows that there is a certain dignity on the part of the representatives to be able to deal with this issue. Both the former adaptation pension system and the current adaptation allowance system are linked to this whole, when it comes to these interests of parliamentarians. It certainly makes sense in the future to go through this whole package and to consider how it would best respond to the future. What often comes to mind here is more about the change that the then Parliament made shortly before the elections in 2011 and which has also contributed to the fact that this matter has remained in the headlines. In other words, the then Parliament was prepared to address the interests of future representatives but was not prepared to intervene in its own. It is always understandable that when this kind of situation happens, then of course it causes the conversation that this is now considered in the best way possible for equality. If we are prepared to take from others, but not from ourselves, that always leads to the continuation of the debate. That is why it would be good if, at the outset, when I spoke about the changes that many people have tabled here, they were now going to be made to this adjustment pension scheme this spring. Surely the key change here is that capital income, for example, should be taken into account, which would at least prevent this current system from being used as harshly as some appear to be. All in all, I hope that this work in this house will progress and that the groups will find a consensus that changes can be made so that we can also show the surrounding society that, after all those speeches, Parliament will assume its responsibilities and also make the necessary changes, so that we do not go into the auction about who here dares to offer the most serious strain to the parliamentarians. However, we must respect this profession to the extent that we are not going to such an auction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u161	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here on how, first of all, we should be able to appreciate our own work, but then we must understand that there are certain disadvantages in this current adjustment pension which seem quite unfair to the public. In view of the purpose for which this adjustment pension was created 50 years ago, the fact that a certain income is guaranteed even after the parliamentary career, so that it is recorded that it does not, for example, concern capital income or these dividends, is, of course, a mirrored one today, which certainly does not correspond to this time, since it can now also be taken as capital income and dividends. In that sense, I am sure that there are loopholes of this kind that we should look at together, and I am glad that this citizens' initiative will bring this to the table, and also that the Presidents, both the previous one and the present one, have taken this into a joint group debate, and I hope that today's debate will give us group presidents a good opportunity to make the necessary changes. But I would also like to thank you for the comments that I am sure the longer the timetable will also have to reflect on this whole system, and also on the whole of this pension system, the assistants' systems, expenses, pay levels, all the way it mirrors today, because the worst thing that could be done now is that, in a hurry and under media pressure and with other kinds of populism pressure, we would now be doing:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u162	Mr President! It is good to deal with this citizens' initiative and then, in general, with this adjustment pension case, or with the pension case of MPs, to do so in a transparent, fair and strong manner with the facts of the arguments. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Wallin for his excellent speech. He had the courage and the wisdom to analyze how this job really is. Although our work as a Member of Parliament is not a traditional job, I have done almost a quarter of a century of work as a forest professional and I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, after a long experience — I started as a forester, and it is not exactly the lightest work when the meter is snow — that this work is certainly heavier in terms of the level of ambition and all the strain I have experienced — and you, ladies and gentlemen, have experienced it the same way — it is absolutely heavier. That's probably what it is. I've felt it in my own body, and I've been trying to deal with it with all my troubles. But in any case, Mrs Wallin's own speech is an excellent analysis of this issue. Similarly, the representative Markus Mustajärvi, in his own speech, presented very big, strong, life-like facts about how to look at this pension issue of a Member of Parliament. The most important thing is that we reach a fair solution that will take time. If we read in the tabloids how this should be done, I think it is the wrong way. There must be fairness and the backbone of standing straight as a defender of Finnish democracy and a defender of parliament, so that we dare to live years forward with it, with our backs straight to the eyes of journalists. If you ask the people what the real amount of pension or reward is, I don't know what they're going to answer, but I'd bet many people say they don't have to pay anything. Some people say we should pay double. I think the truth of that poll is somewhere between then and then. But when we look closely at what is at the heart of Finnish democracy, it is that the person who comes to the work of a congressman, the person who comes into this house, manages with the reward, is able to cope with his everyday expenses and, above all, to do with dignity the work for which the people have chosen him. If we do not appreciate our own work, do we then appreciate democracy? I believe that the role of the Finnish MP is a very great honour and that reasonable compensation should also be paid for it. As far as the few hard pension cases that have been evoked in recent days are concerned on that afternoon’s pages, referring to these hard pension accumulations that former ministers receiving the adjustment pension have raised, the pension benefit of the MP is not that high, but the people who have received it enjoy the accumulation of the minister’s salary. We must therefore recognise and establish a fair system in this respect. The previous President, Maria Lohela, launched this current process, and he was the first to invite all the chairmen of the parliamentary groups to debate, to negotiate what is to be done on this issue, and now Paula Risikko continues to do so. In a way, Maria Lohela and the chairmen of the parliamentary groups opened this channel, and now Paula Risikko continues along this path. I know that the current Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen, has also been active in this matter, using many contributions from his own side. So this matter is now under good review, and it is important to bear in mind that without passion, without any resentment or negative feelings, it is worth following the judge’s advice given by Olaus Petr in the 16th century in this matter, too, that what is not reasonable cannot be a law. And this is not a government matter. In no way is this a matter for the government, but it is a matter for Parliament, and we, as parliamentarians, must stand unitedly and stand up for democracy and then for the people who decide on it here in accordance with our constitution. That's where this whole thing starts. Respect for your job and justice. It is clear that this kind of gimmicking with capital income is unfair, and I believe that this is where the preparatory task force led by Paula Risiko is now involved, and we must remember that we ourselves must comply with the laws. After the laws have been passed by the parliament, it is reasonable that we also observe them. I believe that Paula Risikko, with her strong guidance, will take this work forward and all the legal provisions will be carefully examined how this should be done justly and fairly. It should be borne in mind that today's MPs are not entitled, as has already been said in many speeches, to earnings-related daily allowance or to any kind of labour market support, when this is not an employment relationship. We don't get paid. We get paid. It is necessary to keep these legal considerations in mind and on that basis to take the right thing forward. Finally, Mr President, I hope that in this matter we will be straight and honest, and that Parliament will make a decision in this area with which to live for years to come. Important for this task — I refer to the representative
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u163	Mr President! The adjustment pension system dates back to the 1980s. It is clear that the system must be developed taking into account the development of the rest of society. I am pleased to welcome this citizens' initiative, which came before us. The Act provides for the right of a MP and a member of the Government to a pension. The law contains provisions on both old-age pension and adjustment allowance. And, as has already been said many times here, the law was amended in 2011 so that, instead of a former adaptation pension, the MP is entitled to a fixed-term adjustment allowance under certain conditions. On the basis of the transitional provision, the new provision will apply only to MPs whose mandate has started for the first time since 1 March 2011. In the case of an adjustment pension, there has been a delimitation as to whether it is considered to be a pension or a benefit similar to an unemployment benefit. There are features of both systems. The nature of the pension refers to the regulation of the accumulation of an adaptation pension: the benefit to be earned but not to be paid until later is regarded as part of the consideration of the service. In the other direction, the income earned during the adaptation pension is taken into account and reduces the amount of the adaptation pension. When you are on old-age pension, you no longer take into account earned income. In the context of the 2011 amendment, the working documents stress the concept of an adaptation pension as a kind of unemployment benefit based on the length of the representative's career and the representative remuneration received during his career. In the papers we have read glaring cases of those on an adaptation pension who have raised large capital income in addition to the pension. This does not correspond to my sense of law, and the system needs to be changed so that capital income is also taken into account. The whole system needs to be considered with the consideration of the citizens' initiative, and any need for change must be seen with an open mind. In the case of new representatives who have entered the house since 2011, the adjustment allowance is lower than the earnings-related unemployment benefit. At the same time, however, it must be borne in mind that the interests of parliamentarians have always been and will always be of particular interest to the citizens. The system must correspond to the citizens' sense of justice, but it is also up to us to ensure that this task is continued and that the interests are at a level that does not create a risk of corruption. From the outset, this system has been created as an unemployment benefit for MPs in the event that employment has not been successful immediately after the post-representative career. This should not, however, be the representative’s eternal income machine, so that even when he is employed, he optimizes the situation so that he works only as much as he ‘must’ and changes his pension. The adjustment pension is intended to provide temporary income protection against unemployment. However, the situation must also be recognised that many people are faced with so-called idleness in the absence of a post to return to. There may also be a situation where one wonders whether one’s own professional skills may be in line with the demands of working life even after a long career as a representative. In monitoring the employment prospects of my colleagues, I have been surprised at how difficult it has been to find employment after the post-representative career. This may be influenced by the political stigma of having to take strong political positions, which then make employment more difficult. To some extent, in this role as a Member of Parliament, it is as if it is becoming unfit for other tasks, rather than employers appreciating the experience and expertise that the role of a Member of Parliament has gained. Now this citizens' initiative is going to us for a proper and careful discussion, and we are also waiting for the results of the civil servants' report. When these studies are ready, it is time to look at this system as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u164	Mr President! In the past, the representative, Stefan Wallin, admittedly raised a very shameful war-guilty trial conducted by the then Minister of Justice, Mr Urho Kekkonen, as an example of retroactive legislation and compared it with the objectives of the citizens' initiative now under consideration. In my view, however, Mrs Wallin was wrong in her comparison. The background to this war-guilty trial was the very serious foreign policy threat posed by the Soviet Union and its Control Commission. Even the independence of Finland as a whole was at stake; occupation was still possible when, among other things, there was a Soviet base in Porkkala. At the time, retrospective legislation was adopted under pressure from foreign powers against the general mood of the nation and to shock the country as a whole, and the subsequent generations too have definitely condemned this war - guilt trial and the sentences handed down afterwards. On the other hand, this citizens' initiative, which calls for the abolition of the adaptation pensions of parliamentarians, has come to Parliament through a normal legal process, which was approved by Parliament itself in due course. As has been said today, other pension benefits have been addressed here in Parliament — so why not also the adaptation pensions of MPs? Mr President! The position of the Finns Party on adaptation pensions has been clear much earlier than this bill has come under discussion here. This can be seen, among other things, in the legislative initiative already drafted by Mr Lehdo in 2016, which calls for the abolition of adaptation pensions. I myself have signed this bill, like many other representatives of the People's Republic of Finland. Mr President! ♪ I hope now ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u165	Mr President! The work of a congressman is demanding, true. Most people take their jobs very seriously. Citizens are now also monitoring the activities of the representatives more closely. The reality of the work of the representative is different from the picture drawn in the image of many citizens. Wages are good, but on an EU scale below the average, when the salaries of representatives are compared between countries. The citizens' initiative now under discussion concerns the adaptation pensions to which the elected MPs are entitled before 2011. The citizens' initiative has more than 50,000 signatures, which is required of the initiative to come to the Chamber. There are 70,000 signatures. Thank you for this initiative. A parliament representative's adaptation pension is completely immoral. In order to receive a pension, it is also possible — incomprehensible — to trickle with capital income and part-time work. Pension poverty is growing all the time. Those on guaranteed pensions, those on national pensions, those on low retirement pensions, are increasingly seen in bread queues, older people, more and more women. It's today, I'm afraid. They will not be happy to apply for income support or even not know how to apply for it, for this elderly generation does not easily go to the social hatch. When it comes to tax reductions or increases in pensions for small pensioners, we talk about a few euros. The adjustment pension is a pension of thousands of euros and can be obtained before the effective retirement age. Mr President! The proximity of the elections and the positive attitude of President Risiko and Vice-President Pekkarinen towards moving this issue forward can bring about a change in this injustice. I thank the media this time, and it has strongly highlighted the negative aspects of this adaptation pension. An adjustment pension is a privilege that is not fair from any angle. Rami Lehto has turned this into a bill that I myself have signed. Mr Huhtasaari gave concrete examples of what this adaptation pension is and what it means. As Mr Savio has already said in his speech — and I myself have supported this citizens’ initiative — the Finns of Finland are strongly in favour of a citizens’ initiative to abolish the adaptation pension. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u166	Mr President! I am perhaps a member of a school of general interest here, which is to say that, as a parliamentary institution, I see that, in order for us to maintain people's trust and for people to feel that the decision-makers here are promoting the interests of society in a way that enjoys widespread public confidence, we must be particularly critical of the benefits that the MPs themselves receive. A good leader leads by example and demands more of himself than of others. With this in mind, I myself have thought that these shortcomings are so glaring in the current adjustment pension system for those who are still in it, that time has passed this system and we must change it. It must now also be changed for those who have been elected before 2011, as I am. 2010 when this was last negotiated and the President Niinis took the matter forward, I was the group chairman in those negotiations. Even then, the idea was that if the representatives who were sitting at least at that moment had gone into the adjustment money, but perhaps this was taken through with a rather rapid preparation. When there was no desire for that political dispute because there was disagreement, then the smallest possible change was made, which everyone agreed on, and perhaps the change was so ex post considering a little like this part-reform. So this thing went back to our table now, because there are still glaring flaws in this old system, and now it would be good to look at this as a whole and then make such a system that takes time. I see for myself that the adjustment pension and this new adjustment allowance are more similar to the unemployment benefit system when it comes to people of working age, and then, as in all other occupations today, parliamentarians must have the same ability and ability to retrain and adapt to changes in the labour market. That is what all other people do during this time on the labour market. The adjustment pension has been created at a time when the retirement age of many professions was somewhere there around 55 years, but these retirement ages have been increased. In other words, the labour market position of people has been addressed with quite a strong hand in other professions, and this should be taken into account when assessing that this adaptation pension of a MP has become an opportunity to retire at a very early stage of working age or then to supplement it through capital income so that there is no need to work as people would have to do without this system. It is not sustainable for such a system to be maintained year after year. In other words, I would see that the political objective should also be to transfer us from the old system to this new system during a transitional period and at the same time to consider that the new system will last time and correspond as well as possible to the earnings-related system, that is to say, it can also be monitored in the same context as the citizens' initiative is being dealt with — then do it properly. Perhaps as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I will say that there are certain challenges involved. If the legal scholars estimate that the adaptation pension is more similar to the solutions of the earnings-related pension scheme, there are certain legitimate safeguards and challenges related to the retroactiveness of expectations, but they should then be consulted through experts during this examination. In other words, we may not want to set a precedent which, in fact, provides an interpretation of the Constitution that people's accumulated pensions can be dealt with very strongly retrospectively. I see that the adaptation pension of a Member of Parliament is therefore more of a benefit comparable to unemployment benefit and we are talking about people of working age, which should make it possible to make this change, but this should be carefully examined that this time we are not going to have to go out of business. In conclusion, however, I would really like to emphasise that Mrs Wallin and Mr Mustajärvi and many others made good speeches on how the work and independence of the MP should be appreciated. As parliamentarians, we must be proud of this work, this trust – not because it emphasizes our value, but because it emphasizes the value of Finns. We are here to represent Finnish democracy, and that is very important to all of us. It is our duty, our honour, to do that work without any need, with passion, expertise, getting to know things, meeting people across Finland and listening to their views, and yes, that work also requires such conditions of action for parliamentarians that the work can be done as well as possible. But I can see, if you estimate this by separating the grains and chaff here, which is important for the work of the MP, that I agree with Mr Mustajärvi, that, for example, the expense compensation system in Finland makes sense to ensure that, for example, representatives of Northern Finland are able to go around meeting people and actually contact their constituents. A representative of Parliament must have the opportunity to do his job well, to serve Finnish people, but an adaptation pension, when it is reviewed, clearly has an anti-public sense of justice system that can be used for the purpose of mobilization, in particular by combining capital income. At least this loophole should now be corrected, because — finally, I will return to what I started — we must also show by our own actions that we set ourselves the bar higher than we set for other Finns when we legislate, that the laws that concern you as legislator must be particularly carefully weighed and in accordance with the sense of justice. But the role of a Member of Parliament must also be defended, because it is the defence of Finnish democracy, and that is when we talk about the conditions for action when we are in this work. But when we leave this job, I hope that many of us will go to other professions and serve Finnish society in some other way and will not fall into the scope of the adaptation pension scheme. In conclusion, perhaps it should be said that this is, of course, a question of individual people, perhaps a few out of ten people. Perhaps writing has gained a great deal of weight in that regard. Economically, it is not a question of big figures, but the loss of trust capital for the Parliament is completely pointless, and that is why we need to address this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u167	Mr President! The representative of Elomaa, a moment ago, made a fine point about the situation of real pensioners today. After all, we have a very large group of pensioners who have to cope with a very small retirement year after year. Many have also had to leave the medicines prescribed by the doctor to make a pension sufficient for food. And then, at the same time that these pensioners read about the media, how ex-parliamentarys travel and wander around the world at the expense of taxpayers, it will make a lot of people angry. The adjustment pension scheme is now being used without misconstruing. The abuses that have been brought forward have led to the fact that such a citizens' initiative has now been taken. Thank you to those who initiated and signed the citizens' initiative that we have brought this here today for the debate. We Finns have made a bill on this, and it has not progressed so that this is how we got this debate here in the Chamber. With one of the reasons why this must have caused so many signatories to come, there was an active model driven through government parties. It does now act as a catalyst for citizens to sign this citizens' initiative. I hope that when President Risikko has promised to take this forward and to find out that it will now also go forward and there will be more debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u168	Mr President! It's funny that now it's taking on a lot of people and telling them how we started this. It's the funniest thing I've ever seen. That's what I've been amazed at today. This is a long, long process of change, and the real thanks are due to Maria Lohela, who has finished her work and who has launched this debate and this preparation with great positive authority. Thank you so much for that. This has not just been influenced by a party’s initiative. But for this adjustment pension and money itself. I myself am an entrepreneur and I have an entrepreneurial background and I am truly and honestly from the youngest point of view. I came to an institution I appreciated for work, and I appreciate this crowd here. There's a good spirit here. People say hello to each other. There's a real job going on here. This is, as it were, the role of society under the loop. The saddest thing, of course, is that in fact, outside there, we do not know what everything and what kind of an anthill this is for work. It's true. They work here. At least I myself have experienced when I visit those committees, where people get to know things and people appreciate their role. It's this big hall then, where, of course, it's more colorful to talk about. But I think that the debate on this adjustment money and the adjustment pension should be dealt with in a very fine and dignified way. We've had some really good speeches here. This is where the majority have linked the matter, the arguments, and that legendary populism has only been in a few speeches, but they must always be valued. This is a serious matter. It is a question of parliamentarians being just like the rest of society. They're like surgery for this society. When we have in time — using this form — a system that enables this to be misused, then at some point it will be misused, and the people who abuse it will cause damage and problems to those who are innocent of it. I personally think I'm fair and square with it, but I'm guilty when I get out of here. I have received many factual and inappropriate messages about it, from former reference group friends, even serious ones and others, from present ones. But I think that this system needs to be changed. I am a supporter of the citizens' initiative and of the work that Maria Lohela has done and has begun. This must indeed be changed, but it must be done in a proper, analytical way and taking into account the nature of this work. That means that we, as Mr Niinistö well said... When I am there on the Constitutional Committee, I would see that old, earned pensions — if they are interpreted as they should be interpreted as pensions with protection, even from the point of view of those recipients — are a challenge but then that other group, which does not have such status, pensions or adjustment money, must intervene. For myself, I would see the need to create such a system now as exists elsewhere in society. In other words, working here gives people certain rights over a certain period of time, and then taking into account the procedure for its earnings-related daily allowance after a certain period of sitting should be considered. But this must be viewed properly and in a way that we respect one another. As an entrepreneur, I say that the problem for many entrepreneurs today is that they pay only a minimal amount of this entrepreneurial pension, because they often cannot afford it and save it from their own pension provision. Yes, they see this conversation, which was born by these very few, you might say, unscrupulous people, so that it has made them very angry and we have to listen to them. We need to understand them and send a message to the airport that we will take care of this. We do this, as in the end, as in Parliament, not in the way that we are arbitrarily striving for headlines by arguing and pushing others to seek publicity, but in a way that respects one another and finds a solution. I hope that the current Council of Presidents, including Mr Pekkarinen there of course, will draw up such guidelines and procedures that then the model that will take us up to the 2040s can be adopted in this Chamber. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u169	Mr President! Today's delegation debate is a very important issue, a citizens' initiative to abolish the adaptation pensions of MPs. It is absolutely essential to control the pension balance of Members of Parliament, and by this I mean ex-parliamentarys. Of course, not everyone in such a grey area is making a break, but there are many examples of how wages are taken as capital income, for example, in order to minimise the impact on the adjustment pension. If anything, this will cause moral hazard. Of course, many people do what is possible and what is even a little in the grey area but not illegal. Such loopholes must be closed to so-called piglets. During this period, the government has cut, adapted and intervened in benefits. The effects extend to all of us. The adaptation pension received by the MPs cannot be considered to be in any way appropriate in its present form. If we want to maintain the adaptation pension for Members of Parliament, I think we need to make significant changes to it. Firstly, full-time employment must be redefined by law, secondly, capital income must be taken into account in pension, and thirdly, self-employment must be tackled. These changes, for example, help to close the loopholes in the adjustment pension quite well and strengthen the role of the democratic parliament. In this context, it must of course be pointed out that the Constitutional Committee must also assess whether the adjustment pension can be affected retrospectively. It may be behind a very gray stone, I would say. I believe that the work that Mr Lohela has started must be completed. The Council of Presidents has a key role to play here, and I believe that the Council of Presidents will come to us with good proposals here in the Chamber, which we can then take decisions on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-15-ps-23.u170	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the previous President, Maria Lohela, who, in her own time, put this good thing in motion and justified it quite rightly. He was a courageous man in his commission, and he dared to bring up the wrongs. This citizens' initiative is also needed in order to make public the opinion of the citizens. However, during this debate, I believe that the big red thread is that we now understand that there is a clear flaw in this aspect of the adjustment pension, on which many opinions have been heard during the debate. I think, in a way, when the referral debate on this matter is about to take place, this debate will also reach the ears of the working group that is preparing and taking forward the matter, and it will then come to this Chamber in the form of a motion. It should also be emphasised that this is not a matter for the government, not for the Prime Minister or for the Minister of Finance, but for the Finnish Parliament. For example, Juha Sipilä has nothing more to say about this matter. He simply said that this was a parliamentary matter and that onion, as we saw during Question Time. Let us hope for a good, swift and fair handling of this matter, and let us also ensure that Finnish democracy is well-being, that the authority of Parliament is preserved. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope and strongly believe that, by respecting each other's work, by respecting the mandate given to us by our citizens, by the authority we have received, by the more valuable the work we do and by the more we defend Finnish democracy, the more important it is that this Parliament enjoys the prestige it deserves, and its important role we know how to honour by doing our work as well as possible.
