ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u2	Mr President! Early childhood education is a future investment. It improves equality, learning outcomes and prevents exclusion. According to the OECD, the investment of the euro in early childhood education will generate up to EUR 7 more than any other investment in education. Only high-quality early childhood education and a sufficient number of skilled staff can bring that benefit. It is good that, with the new early childhood education law, staff skills, skills levels, especially pedagogical skills, will increase. However, knowledge alone is not enough. Adults Keep in Early Education [Fresh—The President-in-Office] During this term of government, the quality of early childhood education has been weakened by increasing the group size, i.e. by reducing the ratio between adults and children. The right of children to participate in early childhood education has also been weakened, i.e. subjective rights have been limited. Some municipalities have introduced these handicaps in early childhood education and some have not, and thus the quality of early childhood education varies from one municipality to another. Inequality between children has increased. This is indeed a problem of mega-class inequality, and it is very regrettable that the new early childhood education law does not remedy these shortcomings. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, the definition of the right to early childhood education should have been abolished and group sizes restored to at least the previous level. It is unfortunate that this government will be remembered for increasing the inequality of children. Mr President! The quality of early childhood education is also a response to the need for child support. Indeed, there is a major deficiency in the new law that it does not provide for matters related to child support, such as psychologists. In early childhood education, three-tier support should be provided in the same way as in basic education or similar. We all know that the earlier and earlier the problems are addressed, the easier they can be addressed. Early support for a young child in early childhood education is the most impressive and will facilitate the child’s later school path. Since quality early childhood education in particular has the best impact on the well-being and future of the child, it would be important to establish national quality criteria for early childhood education and pedagogy. This would improve the homogeneity and minimum level of early childhood education in every unit and group of children throughout the day. It is very regrettable that even these quality criteria are not included in this new law. In high-quality early childhood education, every child must be entitled not only to care, rest, food and safety but also to development and learning, i.e. to the best Finnish educare model. The ratio between adults and children must also enable high-quality early childhood education. Mr President! We Social Democrats believe that children deserve a better early childhood education law. That is why we proposed changes to the articles of the law in detail so that the child’s best interests might be better served. We proposed adding psychologists to the law, removing the restriction on early childhood education, i.e. the restoration of subjective day care rights, we also proposed extending shift care to young schoolchildren, i.e. first-class, second-graders, when evening and night care is otherwise impossible when the guardian is working or studying. We also proposed changes to the dimensioning of day care groups, but unfortunately these proposals were not acceptable to the majority of Parliament. Mr President! Now, at the final reading of the law, we still have the opportunity to give the government a word of speech on how to improve this situation in early childhood education. Therefore, I shall make proposals for statements in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u3	Madam President! Mr Eloranta gives a very negative picture of this situation, but fortunately the truth is different. The focus is now on early childhood education. Early childhood education fees were reduced by 70 million at the beginning of this year. Nearly 7,000 ordinary families were brought into free early childhood education, and the early childhood education fees of many ordinary Finnish families fell by over 1200 euros. At the same time, the law on early childhood education is being reformed, and it is here that we are investing in good, skilled staff in kindergartens and, on the other hand, bringing the child’s interests to the heart of all planning and implementation of early childhood education. This is a great innovation, and this has been long awaited, and it seems a little acidic, said the fox about pihlaja berries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u4	Let's take a few moments of this debut, even though there's quite a bit of this debated in its time, but there seems to be a need now. I would ask those who wish to make a debatable statement to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u5	Madam President! Yes, the opposition, especially the Social Democrats, must say that this early childhood education law is the law that has long been expected. When he was Minister of Education Krista Kiuru, what happened? The early childhood education law became a torso. Now this government is taking this law forward, and the child’s best interests have been prioritised. What else has been done? Many families have been reduced in early childhood education fees, and hundreds of families are now in a better economic situation. What's been done? The experiment of free early childhood education is on the move. That's all you've been talking about, and this government is. And what has been done in particular: Many families have contacted us as parliamentarians when there has been no law against bullying and finding that bullying should be prevented in early education. It has not been received there, although it was specifically asked by Minister Kiuru by a number of written questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u6	Mr President! Here, representatives of Heinonen and Sarkomaa describe the steps forward in early childhood education that are in themselves quite worthy of support. Yes, it is right to increase the quality of early childhood education, and we also support the increase in free-of-charge, but these small steps are moving forward from a huge backward distance. It is precisely in the interests of the child, which you, Mr Sarkomaa, have just said beautifully, that a giant leap has been taken back during this government. It is unheard of that the child is unequal on the basis of his or her parents' labour market status. Finnish children are now divided into two castes: children of the unemployed do not have the same right to early childhood education as children whose parents have a better labour market status. This is a fundamental mistake which, Mr President, has to be corrected in this early childhood education law, just as these group-size issues have to be corrected. They should have been fixed. Without these fundamental corrections, it will be very difficult to support this proposal for a law on early childhood education, although it has taken some small steps forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u7	There's a lot of this buzzing around here. Let us listen to these speeches, and the meetings outside this Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u8	Madam President! I have talked to a number of kindergarten teachers with a higher university degree in my area, and no one understands why this change in educational requirements should be taken forward. Everyone, therefore, says that if the quality of early childhood education is to be improved, more caring hands are needed in kindergartens. It will then be concluded again that group sizes should be restored and subjective day care rights should be restored, because according to these educators, according to these kindergarten teachers, it is precisely this partial subjective day care right that causes very fragmented day care patterns and violates the daily life of the day care centre. Why could this legislation not start with these most powerful factors and then end up with other details?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u9	Mr President! Early childhood education is first and foremost the right of the child. There are many good things in this law, but there are also significant shortcomings. Equal rights for children in early childhood education must be the primary and unambiguous objective of the early childhood education law, and this can only be achieved by restoring subjective day care rights. But that is not what is being done in this performance. Children continue to be unequal on the basis of parental labour market status. This is an act of which this government will be remembered. Mr President! Another major flaw in the draft law is the fact that the government's decision to increase group sizes has not been withdrawn in this proposal, even if it had now been possible to do so. This presentation therefore does not give any more caring hands, no warm arms, and it is precisely those that are currently lacking in Finnish day-care centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u10	Madam President! The good thing about this law is that the child’s best interests are so clearly put at the centre. However, as Members of the opposition have reminded us this time, the government has increased the size of the groups and the size of the staff has been tightened. They are clearly the most important issues affecting that quality. In fact, there is a fear that, in the case of tightening up qualifications, the supply of staff may also be further undermined. We know that in many growth centres there is already a serious shortage of labour, and it may be that this situation is deteriorating further. In their own opinion, the Christian Democrats have gone into this law to take account of the position of those over and under the age of three and the fact that their needs are different. And in this situation, the future prospects for nannies, especially for their own profession, are worrying: what is their situation when this law comes into force?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u11	Madam President! Mr Heinonen is quite right that this new law on early childhood education is a law and reform which has been awaited for a very long time and especially in the field — it supports quality development, pedagogy development — and it is historic that such strong records are made out of the child’s interests. But what is challenging here as a whole, as many people have pointed out, is that subjective day care rights have been limited, and also the weakening of group sizes and staff measurements. I personally feel that, as a member of the Committee on Culture, I do not have the opportunity to ignore this fact, because it is reflected in almost every expert opinion. And I would like to point out that these are those who really daily consider the best interests of the child, the well-being of the child and the pedagogy of the child, and all point out that these three aspects undermine the objectives of this law. If we can get rid of them, then the expected law will come into full force and we will also enjoy its benefits and benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u12	Mr President! By way of exception, I read a brief paragraph in the protest of the Social Democrats: ‘The main problems with early education are too low a number of staff during the entire period of activity, too large a size, variable quality,restriction of the subjective In addition, the value and remuneration of the work do not reflect the relevance and complexity of the task. The draft law does not improve on these points.’ Well, I admit that this matter of remuneration is now more involved because it is only in this way that the hiring of nannies, socionomies and kindergarten teachers needs correction, but that is not a matter for Parliament. But what's important is that it was, you know, hard to be on the Civilization Committee, when almost everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u13	Mr President! The law was indeed expected, but it has been quite a disappointment when these old government weakenings were left unchanged. I have to say, quality does not replace quantity. Although you are now increasing the level of competence of staff, which will only start to rise after several years, it will not help once the groups have grown. Even day care workers have said that their opportunities for individual consideration of children have decreased considerably as a result of the weakening. Workers have also reported that anxiety has increased, noise has increased, spaces are narrow and dangerous have increased, and parents also feel that the situation has deteriorated, including from the point of view of equality. And when it was raised here that interference in bullying is involved in the new law — which is a good thing — it is quite difficult to tackle bullying when groups are oversized. It seems that this government is left with the memory that the inequality of children has increased, and not the fact that the law now allows us to intervene in bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u14	Madam President! This level of performance does not satisfy the SDP. Yes, this level of ambition should have been higher. The SDP wants the subjective right to early childhood education to be guaranteed for all children and children to have equal status. This government has restricted the right on the basis of the labour market status of the parents. Similarly, these other tightening ups brought about by the law: There are different variations here. Some cities have adopted them fully and others have not adopted them, thus further increasing this inequality among children. Group sizes of day-care centres should have been reduced, and special support should be provided for children in the same way as in basic education. In particular, this draft law failed to set different categories of staff against each other. We have received all spring e-mail from this that others will not be appreciated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u15	Mr President! As far as day care centres are concerned, day care centres are for families and families are not for day care schedules. My children are not in day care every day in a week, neither is the program of kindergartens broken or shattered, that they do not get to give high - quality early childhood education to my daughter every day. This limitation of subjective day care rights means that everyone is entitled to 20 hours, and if necessary, then more will be given. The main responsibility for education lies with families, and that is how it should continue to be. It is not that society has the primary responsibility, but that of families. And then if families need more, it will be given if necessary. It is unfortunate that group sizes were not restored. If we want quality day care, that means that there are enough adults there to hold the baby. The child wants to be held. He wants to be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u16	Mr President! It seems that this law itself, as a rule at first reading and now at second reading in this Chamber, has a reasonable level of satisfaction, but then there is an opinion on matters not covered by this bill, i.e. subjective day care rights, and then on that whole group issue. I understand those opinions perfectly. However, I would like to remind you of the background in which those decisions were taken: after all, the local economy was at a disadvantage at the time and the municipalities were willing to give them opportunities, so that the standards were relaxed, so that those municipalities that wanted to have some chance of getting better income for themselves. Well, when we look at the map of Finland, there is a problem — I can admit it — in the sense that quite a lot of these have been introduced in Northern Finland and Eastern Finland and then in the municipalities where things are better, in Southern Finland and Western Finland, not so much. We must make an overall assessment of this and an overall assessment of both of these issues in the future. It must also assess whether any savings have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u17	Madam President! With regard to this ongoing issue and precisely to these unemployed children, who are not now fully covered by the subjective day-care right: these families will be left in the weaker part, because when an unemployed parent gets a job then he will not be able to take it because the municipality is not obliged to offer a day-to-day care job immediately. This is the reason why families are in an unequal position. The article about bullying is very welcome and important, but it must be remembered that it does not eliminate bullying if there are not enough staff if there are more children than the eye can look at. And, above all, this three-step support is also a tool for preventing bullying, and that is what is missing from this bill. I know these things, for I have worked in day care before I came into this hall to work. Sometimes, though, I feel that it has been useful to work in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u18	Madam President! It is good that this proposal invests in the quality of early childhood education. University-educated, qualified, respected teachers are the key to the success of the entire education system, and it is good that it is now also being strengthened in early childhood education. The biggest problem, however, is large group sizes. No matter how high the training of staff is, it is difficult to maintain a high level of early childhood education if these groups are too large, and this is where the government has unfortunately made bad decisions during this period. Although the Parliament does not decide on salaries, it must be noted that the salary of kindergarten teachers is shamefully low, EUR 2300 per month for a university-educated kindergarten teacher. Hopefully, a good example of the City of Vantaa would open the way for these salaries to reach the level of education
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u19	Mr President! From this it is good to continue, and indeed to say that we are certainly all in agreement in this Chamber, that one of the factors affecting the ability and job satisfaction of early childhood education staff is, of course, remuneration. Here in Parliament, we do not decide on the salaries, but in my home town of Vantaa a decision has been made to raise the salaries of early childhood education teachers, current kindergarten teachers, nannies and special kindergarten teachers and concentrate on these sectors plus some other female-dominated higher education sectors this year's salary increases. I hope that municipal decision-makers will take this as an example, because the pay will certainly matter how well the farmers enjoy their work. This law, as we have heard here, insofar as changes have been made, seems to be a very broad source of praise. Perhaps then the differences are related to what is not in this law and I recognise that early childhood education must, of course, continue to be developed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u20	Mr President! I'm surprised by this left-wing party talk about subjective day care for all children. However, the example of representative Kymäläinen that in some municipalities some parents do not receive full - time day care for children as soon as they go to work is an isolated example. That is why we do not want to change the early childhood education law by putting all children in a day-care centre — eight, even ten hours, even children under the age of three — if the parents are home. Yes, the primary responsibility for raising children lies with the parents, and that is the parenthood we need to support at home if there is a lack of coping there. But as far as this government proposal is concerned, this is true that the number of employees in particular should be better taken into account. Knowing that these special children are now integrated in almost every municipality into the norm groups of normal children, so to speak, it causes a great deal of difficulty for the day-care centre staff to cope with those situations when those children who need special support will then not receive sufficient attention, and then children who would like to spend a normal day without fear of bullying or being disturbed will also suffer from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u21	Mr President! When you listen to even a little of the stories of early childhood education workers about the daily life of early childhood education, you have to say that this bill does not sufficiently correct the quality of early childhood education. Too large groups, children's goings and comings due to the limitation of subjective day care rights and the lack of adequate support are the biggest problems in early childhood education today and are the most detrimental to the quality of activities. The fact that not all children receive equal early childhood education, inter alia because of the abandonment of subjective early childhood education rights, also significantly undermines the overall impact of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u22	Mr President! It is good that the early childhood education law is being reformed, but, admittedly, there are some problems with this bill. Among other things, the True Finns suggested that the current structure of personnel could continue to be used, especially in these groups under the age of three, so that two nurses could work in the same group as at present with a bachelor or socionomist in early childhood education. Especially for small children, care and care are most important in the company of a familiar and safe adult and nurse. Group sizes are also a big problem. We suggested that group sizes for children in part-time care should be reduced to the same level as for other groups. Today there can be up to 39 children in the part-time group, which is a very big problem. We are also concerned about the status of staff who work in kindergartens that are valuable. In particular, the situation of nannies will deteriorate due to a drastic increase in staff qualifications. Permanent and committed staff are in the best interests of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u23	Madam President! Here, among other things, representatives of Niikko and Huhtasaari made a strong point that the primary responsibility for caring for children and early childhood education lies with parents. There is no doubt about this that this is the case, but this criticism, which is linked to this bill, because there have also been draft amendments to the articles, is that the definition of subjective day care should be abolished and the subjective day care right should be fair to all. I would like to remind you that subjective access to day care and early childhood education is not an obligation. It is precisely the right of the child to be covered by day care and early childhood education on an equal footing with other children, regardless of whether:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u26	I will give four more replies at this stage, and then we will see if there is a need for a debatt, but let us go on to the list of speakers. These four persons are representatives of Vahasalo, Viitanen, Meri and Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u27	Mr President! There is still a long way to go before we realise that early childhood education is not just a labour market measure, it is no longer a social welfare measure, it is the idea in this legislative package that we put the child at the centre of growth and development, so that the learning processes and growth of the child are supported. There are good things here that the opposition has raised, the problems that need to be addressed, but they are then largely matters of the next government programme, i.e. keeping them in mind. We still need all the professions. The only question now is that not everyone does everything they do now and there is not such a common bulwark but that everyone's knowledge must be fully exploited and multi-professional work, and that is the quality that comes from it. I have to say, the smaller the child is,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u28	Madam President! It is a real shame that these group sizes and subjective day care rights were not addressed in this context. We know that in the day-care centres: valuable work is being done with wonderful children, and yet there are very often situations where group size regulations can be circumvented in some way, and the groups are too big. I have also had a lot of discussions on this with staff at various stages. President! Indeed, it has of course been a positive debate that, at least in my opinion, Mr Zyskowicz, the leading thinker in this matter, has indicated, for example, that he is in line with the opposition and that he has come to other ideas in connection with this subjective day care law,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u30	Mr President! Representative Huhtasaari raised the idea that families should not be blamed for wanting to care for children at home, and also the idea that these services, like all services of society, are aimed at families and children and that it is not so that the child should perhaps be there for eight hours so that there will be no disruptions. I think it's an extraordinary idea, because I think it's in the best interest of a child to be treated as much as the family needs to be. Somehow I find this debate quite crazy, thinking, as I saw, that subjective day care is the right to go to the nursery. I prefer it so that it is right to be with one’s own parents. Somehow it seems that we no longer talk about having the right to spend time with our own parents, but about having to get the child out of the house, that it is so bad at home. At least many families have been in contact with me and said that ‘I’m a poor parent when I’m taking 8hours to childcare, I’m spending quality time with him’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u31	Mr. Myllykoski. Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u32	Madam President! Mr Huhtasaari raised an important issue, but I must say that not all of us parents have the pedagogical capacity to support our own children with learning problems. With regard to subjective law, it is hoped that parents will not be deprived of this opportunity because of their own labour market status. It must be justified in Finnish society that people can receive the support they need. I think Mr Niikko has well said that it is precisely the question of making it possible. Congressman Vahasalo, I didn't quite make it now... That ‘all do not do all the ‘share’ when it’s a pullam pussy’ but to the same sentence,however,I think there is a lot of It would be important for everyone to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u33	Mr Myllykoski's speech was followed by two replies here: Mr Huhtasaari and Mr Vahasalo, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u34	President! What is the right of a child? The right of a child is to have a good childhood. Good childhood does not mean that a mother or father is a doctor of education or that pedagogical education is somehow guaranteed there at home. Good childhood means that you are loved, accepted as you are and, above all, received attention from your parents, guardians and loved ones. Every child has a right to good childhood. In what way does kindergarten bring a child a better childhood than home care? It cannot be decided here that kindergarten is better or kindergarten teachers are better than their own parents and their own homes. As far as this is concerned, now that we have every child's right to have that 20 hours and we have a good maternity clinic system, on the basis of which we can individually guarantee each child more pedagogical guidance if the clinic comes and the professionals in kindergarten come to the conclusion that this particular child, this individual, needs even more pedagogical care, and then it is also granted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u35	Mr President! In reply to Mrs Myllykoski, everyone is doing everything at the moment when the idea is that, when all professional groups have different training that produces different strong skills, then we will benefit better from everyone doing the job they have trained for, and then together, Tillsammans, the team will be able to do the work for the best of the child. And that, in a way, is what this whole government proposal is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u36	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u37	Mr President! This bill highlights the priority of the child’s best interests. Correct. However, the limitation of subjective day care rights and the increase in group sizes over three years of age by the Sipilä Government is flagrantly opposed to this principle. In the law at hand, these weaknesses should have been reversed. The limitation of the subjective right to day care has led to differences in municipal solutions. Not all children have equal rights to quality early childhood education. I went through the old expert papers deliberately from just over two years ago when the Committee on Education and Rural Development dealt with this restriction of subjective justice. Jukka Mäkelä, a child psychiatrist, psychotherapist for children and older-child relationships, a specialist in THL, said in his written expert opinion: “The change in the law willreduce Finnish children’s I justify this through two independent phenomena, both of which are adversely affected by the proposed legislative amendment. The first is that the experiences of community in a familiar peer group are essential for the development of the child’s brain. The legal amendment should substantially reduce the coherence of early childhood education groups. The second is that of the family Then he goes on to say: “The multidimensional socialenvironment of the development of the The most important phase of brain development is the time before school age. The brain develops in action: interacting with everyday environments and people in them. Relationships are the primary function of the human brain and thus also direct the development of the brain to the strongest. When relationships remain manageable, the brain can focus on learning skills and knowledge. The child will benefit significantly from early group experiences, where the group will remain familiar. The familiarity increases the sense of control; it is strained by turnover and increases the child’s stress level. The rise in stress levels reduces the capacity for social inclusion.” Mr President! Oh, I love the text so much, but I'm gonna have to stop at this point. This was also a commentary now on this discussion of day care, home, parenting. I would like to say, however, that I too think it is a great thing if the parents of children want to raise and care for their children, but this is something that will now be firmly established on the basis of scientific research, the importance of such a group of children in terms of growth. Mr President! This development of early childhood education is one of the most important priorities for us Social Democrats. High - quality early childhood education available to all children gives children a good springboard to push forward in their lives. Of course, this early childhood education is also today’s support and security for parents to combine work and other life in a smart way. During the committee's deliberations, I was allowed to be in rather heavy situations when I listened to one expert after another saying the same: the significant weakenings made in 2015 should have been addressed. Well, we didn't. We need an overall reform of early childhood education, but not that the main shortcomings in early childhood education remain unresolved. The strength of the Finnish model of early childhood education is the idea that education, education and care are balanced. On this basis, it is necessary to increase the level of training and skills and pedagogical capacity of early childhood education staff, taking into account all categories of staff. I don't know how to say it nicely, but when the law was drafted, there was disrespect for nannies and sosionoms. However, in my view, the committee in its own work managed reasonably well in this respect to correct the unfortunate government proposal from this point of view, but it is still very well worth saying that the law was poorly prepared and, in a sense, there were some flaws in it, which is why the Social Democrats made significant amendments to the articles which we lost at first reading: a change in the section to restore subjective day care rights, a change in the section for the first- and second-graders, a change in the section in the provision of psychological services for early education, a change in the eligibility of socionomist to be a teacher of early childhood education by means of further education: pedagogical studies by the teacher. Mr President! After all this, Mr President, I have to say that I am proposing to reject this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u39	Mr President! In this debate, it has been very clear how there are three mega-issues in early childhood education that are important and beyond the others. Equality and equality between children, i.e. a uniform subjective right to early childhood education across Finland, are important. The quality of early childhood education is important, and quality is built on issues such as the size of groups, the number of adults, early problems and staff skills and training. We also receive continuous research on the factors affecting quality. And it is important that as many children as possible participate in early childhood education. This involves our long-term goal of free early childhood education as part of the educational path for all children. So three things: equality, the quality of early childhood education and the participation of all children. Mr President! Finnish early childhood education has been at the top of the world. We have even been a radical pioneer in how we deal with children and their abilities. Our model, the so-called educare model, has been gaining interest for a long time, and it has also been found to work. A few years ago, we were world leaders in international comparisons of 50 countries, and perhaps that is precisely what our credibility has been about. Well, this is the best model in the world, so to speak, the present government has reformed by scratching equality first when children were divided into two castes, so-called 20-hours, based on whether parents are at home for unemployment or other reasons, and other children. Quality has been reduced by increasing group sizes and reducing the number of adults in groups. In other words, this three-year reform has undermined the equality of children and the quality of early childhood education, just as our excellent committee chairman, Mr Tuomo Puumala, acknowledged in that earlier debate. Now we have this law. After the vote after the first reading of the law, it is clear that the law will not remedy these fundamental mega-problems. It does not correct the subjective right for all children, it does not correct the group size regulation, nor does it bring the special support and additional knowledge needed for early childhood education about early intervention. Raising the level of competence and training of staff would have required careful preparation, rather than bringing the government proposal to Parliament in a form which, in a miserable and unnecessary way, has created tensions among staff and even risking staff availability in the coming years, leaving completely open the funding and content of the necessary and significant additional training. Mr President! It is therefore contradictory and unjustified to provide for new changes and objectives to be supported as such if the fundamental weaknesses in terms of equality and quality are not corrected first. Instead of this law, we need a comprehensive reform of long-term early childhood education, that is to say a future reform based on these three mega-issues that everyone is talking about: the equal status of children, the quality of early childhood education and the participation of all children. Mr President! As Mr Gustafsson said, the development of early childhood education is one of the most important priorities of the SDP. High-quality early childhood education available to all children provides a good basis for children to push forward in life, and for families it is support and security in reconciling work and other life. The SDP has clear core points that have guided our work on this law as well: The long-term objective is to make early childhood education free of charge, which would significantly increase the European level of early childhood education participation. We want all children to have a subjective right to full-time early childhood education — it is the child’s right and interests that are at stake. We want to reform the group-size regulation between child groups and early childhood education professionals, with the aim of making it possible to take account of the individual needs of each child. And we want to extend to early childhood education the special support we already have in primary school, but not at this early stage, even though everyone swears to the names of early intervention. We want to further develop this Finnish model, in which education, education and care are balanced — the educare model, which is also known in the world. On this basis, it is necessary to raise the level of training and skills and pedagogical capacity of early childhood education staff, and indeed taking into account all categories of staff. I share Mr Gustafsson's perhaps slight sadness about the form in which this law was actually brought to Parliament from the point of view of these staff groups. And of course we want to develop the local school path also for local day care centres in the future. Mr President! The social democrats in the civilised group first presented in committee and then here at first reading of the law a truly fundamental change to the bill that Mr Gustafsson went through. The discussion made it clear that, when the government's proposal comes into force, it will leave open the main shortcomings of our early childhood education that have now been dealt with several times. In addition, the personnel’s job description, training, skills and qualifications were a thinly prepared entity. As stated in the committee’s report, ‘the Committee notes that the discussion on the structure of staff has contributed to the unsatisfactory formulation of In addition, the presentation does not bring any path towards free early childhood education. Mr President! We had a long time to think about how we will deal with the legislative package in this second phase. Our view is that, in the current situation, this law would continue to be contradictory in the early childhood education regulation, because it lacks all the listed mega-class issues. This goes on with some sort of blindfolding approach, which goes forward and does not first fix what has been broken. Mr President! We need a genuine long-term reform of early childhood education, which is guided by the real interests of the child, namely equality, quality and participation of all. That is why I support Mr Gustafsson's rejection proposal and, at the same time, support Mr Eloranta's earlier proposals in protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u40	Madam President! Listening to former Social Democratic Minister for Education, Jukka Gustafsson, felt that the SDP was better in the opposition than in the government. You didn't do the Stability Act when you had the Minister of Education's briefcase. Now you are putting forward a huge amount of good and important things in themselves, since you do not have the portfolio of the Minister of Education, nor do you have the government's responsibility, nor do you have financial responsibility. That, of course, is not something you were so concerned about in the responsibilities of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u47	Mr President! The Left Alliance sees high-quality early childhood education primarily as the right of the child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u50	Mr President! Early childhood education is one of the most impressive stages of the school path. High-quality early childhood education equals differences due to family background, supports the child in learning this cognitive and social skills and creates the conditions for starting the school path. I am particularly pleased that, at last, Parliament is adopting a new law on early childhood education, which will finally complete the transfer of the administrative sector from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to the Ministry of Education, while at the same time strengthening the child's right to quality early childhood education and raising the level of training for staff. Early childhood education finally becomes part of the education and training system. This shows that society finally recognises the importance of early childhood education. Mr President! Every day, early childhood educators work extremely importantly for the future of children. The new Act on early childhood education thus strengthens the multiprofessional approach to early childhood education. The change in the staff structure will not fully take effect until 2030. The long transition period will allow for a gradual and natural development of change. I would also like to point out that, even if the eligibility criteria are changed, anyone who is currently qualified as a kindergarten teacher will not lose it as a result of this amendment of the law. The aim of the Act is therefore to strengthen the multi-professional dimension and to improve the ability of all professionals working in early childhood education to realise their own skills in the best interests of the child. Mr President! During the spring, discussions have been held on the remuneration of early childhood education staff. It is true that the remuneration of early childhood education staff is lagging behind in demanding work. However, the remuneration is not decided by Parliament. In municipalities, we decision-makers have the opportunity to influence this problem. In Vantaa, we have really taken on the salary of kindergarten teachers. Concerns about the low level of pay have already been expressed on several occasions by political decision-makers, and we are now increasing the salaries not only of kindergarten teachers but also of nannies and kindergarten teachers. Early schoolers have earned their wages. Mr President! It is true that even this law does not eliminate all the needs for the reform of early childhood education. In future, therefore, we should look at the models of early support and their inclusion in the legislation. Prevention and early intervention are also economically cost-effective ways of identifying and preventing learning difficulties and exclusion. It is often learning difficulties that can be identified at a very early stage, and it is easier to address them at source. However, how support for early childhood education is organised is not a question that could be resolved just like that during the parliamentary process. A careful consideration must be given to the best interests of the child, as a matter of priority, how the support will be arranged in such a way that a parenting partnership with the family is implemented and, for example, cooperation with maternity clinics will be taken into account. Consideration must be given to the role of special kindergarten teacher and to the need and role of other occupational groups such as psychologists in early childhood education. The need for this reform has also been identified in the government's proposal and also in the form of a statement in the report of the Committee on Culture. Like Mr Heinonen, I am indeed surprised that, although practically all the changes made in this law about the priority of the child's interests, about raising the level of bullying and raising the level of education of early childhood education staff are objectives that are in favour of almost all parliamentary parties, the opposition, and particularly the Social Democrats today, are prepared to overthrow the entire bill. The Government makes proposals whose content is essentially agreed in all government parties. Therefore, even if one party or several individuals from a number of parties would have thought, for example, that the restriction of subjective early childhood education rights should be abolished, it cannot be implemented without majority agreement. However, I find it extraordinary to oppose the law as a whole, even though the changes made in this context are, in your own words, a step in the right direction. As far as group sizes are concerned, it must also be clarified that group sizes are regulated by a regulation, not by law. In future, I would like to see a situation in which group size regulation could be abandoned, because the economic situation in the municipalities would be good and the understanding of the number of staff in the decision-makers would have improved. If the starting point were an appropriate number of breeders in the best interests of the child and not a strict staffing scale, the trend would most likely be the same as in Sweden, where there are fewer children in the group, although group sizes are not regulated. However, the development of group sizes should be monitored at national level and, where necessary, addressed, and primarily, for example, part-time child group sizes. In conclusion, however, it must be said that while there is still something to be developed in early childhood education, this law is definitely a step in the right direction. Priority in the best interests of the child is a principle that we must continue to pursue in all legislation with every effort to promote.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u51	And then the reply, Mr Gustafsson. Let's get back on the list in a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u52	Mr President! It is precisely because of the primacy of the child's interests that we have dealt with this subjective law, group sizes and this three-step support. The training of staff is certainly as important to us as it is to others, but we have also stressed that not only must we increase the number of kindergarten teachers, but we must also take care to increase the educational level of socionomists and nannies. Mr Multala spoke properly. I do not know how to deal with Mr Heinonen, when he first minute, two let off the steam so that his main task was to attack the former Minister of Education, Mr Gustafsson, on a very personal level. I thought it was very inappropriate. Now that bullying has been discussed, as a minister from outside, I prepared, among other things, a school peace package that received tremendous support from Parliament, teachers, the Teachers' Trade Union. But it warms me more when I move around Finland when ordinary people still stop
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u53	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u54	Mr President! I have been visiting eight day care centres for the past 18 months since the council of my own city decided, by a majority of one vote, to waive subjective day care rights and increase group sizes. Unfortunately, Mr Mikkonen and I were on the losing side, which really lost this vote, and I hope that Mr Mikkonen and I will go into a new battle as soon as possible, because it was a very bad decision, and it has now been seen there in everyday life. During these eight day - care visits, I have talked to dozens of workers and almost the same number of parents about how they have now experienced these weakenings in our home. And in almost all day-care centres — not all because, for example, some of them were unable to increase the size of the group because of their space solutions, so that they could not be affected in that way — in almost all these day-care centres I visited, both parents and employees felt that the quality of their activities was impaired by the decision of this city council. Mr President! After all, the goal of early childhood education must always be the best for the child, and the best for the child is always achieved through high-quality activities, and the child’s advantage is that there are enough adults in early childhood education to enable the individual attention of children and individual guidance. Only in this way can the personal growth and development of each child be supported. There have been sad reports from different parts of Finland lately about how these large groups make quality operations difficult in everyday life. In many places early childhood education staff have told us that they would not bring their own child to their own workplace for early childhood education, where there is far too much anxiety and there is not enough time for adults to consider children individually. For many workers, too, this conflict between professional identity and reality is so great that they are thinking about changing professions. Even in such a situation, pay does not help if the work seems to be a conveyor belt work, as a worker in early childhood education told me about his own knowledge. The same is true of parents. Parents would like to have time in early childhood education to consider each child as a person, but this is not possible in too large groups. This is particularly the case for children who need a lot of help and support, as well as for sensitive and withdrawn children. When I talked to parents and professionals, there was a common concern: that is, both feel it is a problem that groups of children are changing all the time, partly because the subjective day care right has been abandoned and there are different lengths of treatment for children and some come and some go and have to be changed from one group to another sometimes even every day. This makes it difficult to learn social skills and, on the other hand, this also increases anxiety, and parents say that anxiety even moves home at night. I am very disappointed that no solutions have been sought or sought on these most important issues in terms of quality, and this bill does not correct the most fundamental quality deficiencies in early childhood education at the moment. That is why even these good objectives of the draft law will not be achieved. They cannot be achieved if these basics are not in order. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u55	Mr President! The child's best interests are the most important thing. It is also self-evident in the reform of the early childhood education law. Much has been said in the hall about the meaning of home and family for the child. The Finns have always underlined the primary importance of the home for the child, just as Huhtasaari, Meri and Niikko clearly pointed out here in the hall. We have dealt with this law thoroughly in the Committee on Culture and Education and have listened to a large number of experts. A large number of speeches were made in this Chamber at first reading. Many changes were made by the True Finns, which have been creditably highlighted by Mr Saviok, in relation to large group sizes and eligibility criteria. I have often asked Minister Grahn-Laasonen whether kindergarten teachers and nannies with socio-nomic background are concerned about their jobs and whether this concern is justified. I have not yet received a direct answer to this. The tightening of eligibility requirements will also make it even more difficult for municipalities to have qualified staff, and, especially in the case of persons under the age of three, arms are needed, caring hands are needed. There is no improvement to this, on the contrary, not to mention the position of older children. In other words, group sizes can momentarily become really large, but the number of staff is small in proportion to them. The question is: how will the staff cope in this situation? There has been talk of low wages in early childhood education for years, but this has remained at the level of speech. Of course, Parliament does not impose wages, but Parliament can set the course and provide guidance so that trade unions also wake up to this issue more rigorously. The True Finns will also make two statements that have been distributed to the tables there. Unfortunately, bullying is also a kind of problem in day - care centres. We have dealt with the law on upper secondary school and have also stated that bullying takes place a lot in comprehensive school. But this also happens in kindergartens, and it is good that this law on early childhood education has taken this into account. But the Finns also want to confirm this by making a statement. I will therefore read these two statements, which are proposed by the Finns: ‘The Commission requires that the government engages in measures to ensure that the basic and supplemental training of early education staff takes greater account of the current situation in the prevention The second statement:‘The Commission And, of course, I hope that these statements will be supported when we vote. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u56	Mr President! To this and to the previous speech, it must be said very quickly that there has been a strong emphasis in the expert hearings on the fact that it is the raising of staff pedagogical skills that improves the conditions for caring for children, both small and small, and providing quality early childhood education and coping with situations that are sometimes challenging. With regard to the temporary deviations, which had to be emphasised earlier, the Committee on Education and Rural Development has stated very strongly that temporary deviations from the human resources measurement defined at the level of the law can only be temporary, not continuous and day-to-day, as is currently the case at the moment. This is what the committee also requires to monitor in order to be able to intervene more effectively in the future than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u57	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u58	Mr President! These changes in the new early childhood education law have already been widely discussed last week in the context of the first reading of this law and have also been the subject of a very good debate and voted on last Thursday. I am not going to repeat these details much more, but of course this whole group issue, which has been the subject of extensive debate both for children in full-time care and, in particular, for these part-time groups, which may indeed have up to 39 children, and for these staff measures, which Mr Multala has just mentioned, has been taken into account in the report. We believe that the law should have been made much more stringent in terms of how much and how quickly these deviations should be responded to. The eligibility criteria for staff have also rightly given rise to a wide-ranging debate. The representative Elomaa gave a good example of the views of the Finns. We are concerned about this very valuable work in day-care centres, in particular the role of nannies, but also the status of other staff, during the transitional period included in this new law, and especially after the end of it. A great deal has been said about this employment situation for nannies, and I share this concern that retirement will not be able to replace almost all the diminishing balances. In other words, there are a number of aspects of unemployment which, unfortunately, also threaten that staff. We believe that strong attention should be paid to this promotion of employment as this early childhood education law is now being reformed. As I pointed out, permanent and committed staff are also in the interests of children, and that is of course a priority for all of us legislators. As Mrs Elomaa pointed out earlier, bullying is also a serious problem in day-care centres. It must be tackled by all means at its disposal. Otherwise, there is a high risk that bullying may also continue in comprehensive school. Of course we don't want that. I would like to comment briefly on this two-year pre-school education which Mr Sarkkinen has also supported in his speech. I do believe that this is a very over-compensated demand and an objective. Yes, the child should also be at home if the parents feel it is best. In the case of a five-year-old child, or even a four-year-old child, who should be taken to early childhood education with this proposal, I do think that this is far too big a change. Yes, the current system is good in that respect. Mr President! Finally, I support these statements made by Mrs Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u59	Mr President! Just now, I shared the views of the Finns who spoke about what Mr Huhtasaari spoke about earlier, that the child has the right to be home and to spend time with his or her parents. I am not mentioning the name of the person, but I received an e-mail from my grandfather, who has 12 children, and he thanked me for the speech and said: ‘The best place for the child is to grow up and get capacity for the school road and life. In a collective foreign environment, it is not necessary to share the values and instructions of the home that each parent should share with his or her own heirs. Family support schemes paid by taxpayers should be directed to parents and children in need.” I thank the sender of the feedback, and I am pleased to see that people are following these discussions, what we think. Personally, I share the values of the True Finns about letting families decide what is best for them and giving them the services they then need. It is not a matter of deciding for them what services they need, because we are far from being here overholstery, but we are trying to be the deep voice of the people here. I absolutely agree with that group size. I've been talking to a kindergarten teacher in Hyvinkää some time ago, and he said that of course he thinks it would be nice to have some of those raise points — and this has to be at our house. At Hyvinkää again to take them into the conversation whether they are right or not — but he said that when those group sizes could get in place, that he was so tired and there were so many children and he would like to give them arms and time, but when there was no time. He also stressed that it is great that everyone has adequate training, but he stressed that there is an obligation to make certain plans and reports and that a certain number of hours per week must be spent on them. I think it's pretty unusual that you have to sit down and do something for even five hours if it report is ready that includes this sort of reporting. This is what he told me. - And Multala doesn't have to spin her head, because that's what she told me. There's no reason to doubt the person who does this every day. Then I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have somehow forgotten about the humanity and what it is to be fit and competent. I think every profession should find someone who is motivated, wants to do the work and who loves children, and every parent wants this kind of safe, good person close to their child. We have gone to stress that everyone has to have a doctor’s hat on before he can take care of the child, and I personally worry about it, because that love and caring and caring is the most important thing. It was very good that representatives of the True Finns, Savio and Elomaa, just brought up that bullying. I have to bring up something that shocked me yesterday when I was watching Yle's topical program, and it has nothing to do with this day care area, but with child care. There was a support person through the association who had then sexually abused these children who were sponsors. I was shocked by how to examine such tendencies. I wonder that, even if there are such trainings, we need to pay more attention to who are suitable people — not everyone is suitable for child care, not everyone is suitable for animal care, not everyone is suitable for medicine, not everyone is suitable for teaching — who is suitable for what profession? These numbers are all we have in mind these days, and that is what worries me. I found that show really distressing last night. That is what I wanted to bring up here. I'm waiting for Congressman Mäkipää's speech because I talked to him. He was looking at questions from a municipality about what his parents wanted from child care, and there was, yes, — whether there was now a study by the municipality of Jyväskylä — that there was a desire for a good and safe place where there was time for the child, and not so much that during the day how much he was better than his neighbor to know and remember. I'm sure St. John's will tell you about these. He was very good at finding them there. I'm looking forward to it. We absolutely agree that a dear lap and home is a very good place for a child.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u60	Mr President! I have to say, it's great to be able to interpret what I think about shaking my head. I fully agree that it is not, of course, appropriate to regulate at the level of the law, or even at work, how long it will take, for example, to make or record an early childhood education plan. The most important thing is that it is understood that, for example, the development of its early childhood education plan begins when the child enters the day care centre. It requires the competence of all early childhood education professionals, the competence of nannies, those with socio-nomic backgrounds and those with university backgrounds in order to make full use of this pedagogical competence. However, it must also be said here that this is not about any superiority of home or early childhood education, but that the Early Childhood Education Act regulates precisely the educational environment in day-care centres and what it is like.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u61	The reply, Mr Meri, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u62	Mr President! I was forced to share personal and basic Finnish ideas about how this discussion of the hall sounds for some. It sounds like all the children have to be taken to a place where everyone is really educated, and that is what matters. If, Mr Multala, this is intended not to spend a certain amount of time in a report, then the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy would have to give clear instructions, because if in practice it has come to the point of spending a certain amount of time a week planning, if there is nothing else to be planned, then this has gone completely wrong, and then, for example, the Committee on Civil Affairs could say in its report that instructions are being given to the field, because then it seems to be unclear what the will of the legislator is if the plans and reports are highlighted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u63	Let's go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u64	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that this issue of early childhood education was now brought under the administration of the Ministry of Education and Culture, which is a positive thing, because raising is indeed teaching from infancy. I have been a little surprised at the tone of this debate in the sense that it seems that the children should be made responsible for society as quickly as possible. Yes, the old ancient truth is that the father and mother are the most important breeders of the child and that is the early childhood education. The safest life for a little child must be at home with his father and mother. No matter what the pedagogues think, you, bureaucrats, will never be able to undo this eternal truth. Father and mother are the best nurses of a child at all times. Of course, there are cases, and there is always an exception to the rules. It is by means that if a family has problems, of course they will be taken into account in the home town or municipality of residence of that child and then tailored to the needs of the child. Of course. That is what the law already requires, and yet in this country laws are still being complied with. As far as the financial position of municipalities is concerned, there are differences in them too, we know that, but I am surprised that every effort is being made to improve the financial position of these municipalities by means of various projects that are available, at least the opposition has been good at resisting everything. If you say no to everything, there is probably a dead end in the head from which you can no longer get out. That's what I've been so impressed by, and that when a mother and father raise a child... I dare say from experience, from when I was a little kid and was at home, my father and mother took care of it and raised it that I didn't think it was bad. And I've been following the development of my little granddaughter in the environment where she's growing up, and I'm 100 percent sure that her father and mother are her little best breeders, I'm sure. If anyone says otherwise, I'm willing to discuss this at UN headquarters at any time. I'm ready for that debate anytime. This is the kind of conversation that society is responsible for this job... When an official is the closest relative to a person, things are really bad. Why don't you check out that railway station on Friday night? There's some of these kids out there who don't have a father or a mother. I'm sure the authorities won't raise them at all. It'll take you somewhere for the night, and then it'll take you to the jail a little bit earlier to get away with it. Is that the goal of this Finnish society? However, in this country, things are pretty good, I can say that on average they are very good compared to other countries in the world. It is true that there are a huge number of children in distress in the world, but unfortunately there is little we can do about it in this house to help the children who are there. If we imagine that we will get laws by making society responsible for child care and education, that is indeed the wrong way. It is very supportive of the child’s life and early life, but it hurts me in the heart that the role of father and mother in this has been understated, as it were, that it no longer seems to be recognized at all. I am very sorry about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u65	Mr President! Perhaps the big problem that I would like to see discussed in this Chamber is that Finland participates in early childhood education at the weakest in Europe, and we know from the research results that quality early childhood education improves the learning opportunities of children and reduces the risk of child exclusion. This is not a matter of opinion. This has been studied very, very much. We are in a situation where the learning outcomes of Finnish children are weakening and the learning differences between children are increasing, so we must, then, as responsible decision-makers, think about the ways in which we can overcome the obstacles that arise for the different children. Especially for this reason, it was a joy to hear that the convention has also come behind the Greens ’ presentation that the preschool should be two years old. Mr President! It is rather sad and quiet when you listen to the debate that is taking place here. The confrontation that is created here between a loving home and the pedagogical and goal-oriented early education provided by loving parents and then professionals is pointless. They are two completely different things, just as education in schools and love in the home are two completely different things. We do not think that these are mutually exclusive, but both are things that are in the best interests of the child and build up the welfare of the child. And those are the things we should be supporting here. I agree that this law is much to be expected and extremely important. There are many things to support, such as the emphasis on the quality of early childhood education, such as the emphasis on the best interests of the child, and perhaps that is why the disappointment was so great when things were not corrected, for which all the experts actually seemed to agree. Equal day care rights, the return of smaller group sizes are precisely in the best interests of the child. In this group of delegates it was suggested earlier that this was something the Greens made up of. This is not something the Greens have come up with, but experts have been almost unanimous on this, and we should be doing these things precisely on the basis of the views of the experts. These were also the points, as the members of the committee have said here, which were repeatedly raised during the committee hearings. The foundations must be set up before the house is built, and that is why, Mr President, I shall make the following statement: ‘The Commission requires that the Government Regulation restores “
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u66	Madam President! From the outset, I support the statement made by Mr Kari. The Greens have been concerned about further training opportunities for nannies and the resources for three-tier support. This bill is still to be welcomed in itself, but we would step things up slightly differently and we would also restore the right to full-time early childhood education to all children and group sizes, and to the level of human resources pre-government. It is worrying that the most effective means of ensuring quality early childhood education for every child, i.e. the abolition of the right to full-time early childhood education, the reduction of group sizes and the strengthening of staffing have not been on the government's agenda. However, high-quality and reasonably rated early childhood education is important from the point of view of equal opportunities for children, including the prevention of discrimination. Unfortunately, the quality that has been enshrined in this bill in many different ways cannot be fully realised until the basics and the reasonable dimension, sufficient staff in relation to the size of the groups of children and the equal treatment of children are fully realised. Mr President! I fully agree with the previous speaker that the fact that the parent cares for and loves his child does not in any way conflict with the fact that the child also receives early childhood education in the day care centre when the family considers it necessary. My own wife and I have taken care of all my children at home for as long as it has been possible for the economy and work, and since then, except for one, all my children have also had early childhood education in day care, and I think this combination has been excellent. This law does not require that each parent should take the child to day care as early as possible. I have been wondering about the speeches in which this is supposed to happen. Mr President! The concern of day care staff about their jobs is understandable, especially in this situation where the government has introduced significant cuts in their workplaces. In particular, the concerns of nannies about the possibility of further training is a key issue. At the end of the transitional period, we have potentially thousands of nurses who are threatening to be dismissed from their work. With regard to the presentation, the future of nursing skills and opportunities for further training should be more concrete in order to ensure that carers can also ensure their own future as professionals in early childhood education. The consideration of the best interests of the child in this bill is raised in its own article, in which case it is thought to highlight the child’s interest in the organisation and decision-making of early childhood education. This is very important. Among other things, the article records the need to protect the child from bullying, violence and other forms of harassment. The law is specified in that in future the child should be allowed to participate equally in meals with other children, regardless of the early childhood education period of the child, whether full-time or part-time. The municipality must also continue to have the services of a special kindergarten teacher in line with the need. Mr President! A significant flaw in the draft law is the lack of legislation on aid. The Greens consider it important to include provisions on the organisation of special support for children in the early childhood education law. The starting point should be the right of the child to timely, adequate and appropriate support in both public and private early childhood education services. Provision should be made urgently for a model of specific support similar to or similar to the three-step model already contained in the Basic Education Act, applied to the early childhood education environment. The new Act on early childhood education emphasises the child’s best interests and the right of every child to equality and non-discrimination. However, it is important to note that we have children who do not have that equality at the moment, and this is particularly true for children belonging to different minorities. However, it is right to thank the government for clarifying the wording of language minorities in such a way that the implementation of early childhood education in the mother tongue of children speaking a Sámi language is now more clearly stated in the law. From the child’s point of view, it is important that this bill takes things in many ways for the better. However, much remains to be done unless corrections are made to the points that have been proposed for correction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u67	Madam President! To be loved and loved is a privilege in every family, and that must be unquestionably clear. This government proposal does not address love or the amount of love in families, but seeks to make it possible for every family with children to have early childhood education and for the child to have the right to early childhood education. That is a good principle and, in principle, the right one. But I want to say this especially to the Finns,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u72	Mr President! It is said in this Chamber that ‘there is no need for a child to go to a day-care centre’,but then it is said that ‘however, not all Well, of course it's true that even if you've been debating physics as a doctor, you may not recognize your own child's special needs, and that's why we have a great maternity clinic system where they need to be caught so that we can support every little child in the right way. Each child is an individual, which is why they must be treated as individuals. And at the same time as it is said that ‘we value home care also’, it’s thenreferred that‘but the experts’sview of a day-care centre should nevertheless be taken to,where professionals are directing children and results are In other words, putting pressure on those housewives who have made this choice is at the same time being discussed that, in the opinion of experts, children should be taken to day care, this would help to guarantee them a future, and that is not the case at all. That is not at all true because every child and family is an individual, and even now every parent has the right to take the child to day care, 20 hours a week. It is a perfectly sufficient time to provide pedagogical early childhood education and to identify the individual needs of the child and support him individually and also to make suggestions that this child specifically needs even more support, and then it will be organised. I believe in classical liberalism, in which homes decide, parents decide, and then society provides those services individually from the point of view of each child. In other words, day care is not the right of the child, it is the right of the child only if the parent decides to take the child to day care. Then the child’s right begins: the child has the right to receive good pedagogical early childhood education in day care. After parents have decided to take the child to day care, there must be enough adults there. It must be possible to prevent bullying. It must be possible to support each child individually. Group sizes play a key role in this, but they were not wanted to be reduced. Even my child can't have as many arms if there are more children. Each adult has a certain amount of time per child to care for one child. Everyone who's worked in a day care centre knows this. I too have been working in a day care centre during my studies, and I was annoyed: there were very many young children in the yard and three wanted to hold them at the same time, and of course I tried to hold them in the best possible way. No wonder the day - care staff complain that they want to do even better in the best interests of the child. But when it means those resources. But what are we now using these resources for? We use these resources, that is, money, to demand that there should be a kindergarten teacher, a socionomist and a nanny in every daycare group. This costs a lot of money because we need to train more kindergarten teachers — it costs a lot. Moreover, we are currently in a desperate shortage of qualified kindergarten teachers, especially at day - care centres. How do we motivate the kindergarten teachers in such a way that we add both a kindergarten teacher and a socionomist, when we can use this same money to reduce group sizes and support it together to raise the salaries of the kindergarten teachers and in this way show them the value of the work? So how do we want this money to be spent now? Do we want to reduce group sizes, that is, give it to the children directly, because the problem is that we do not really have incompetent staff? The problem is that there is not enough time for children. The problem is that we do not have enough qualified kindergarten teachers available. The problem is the shortage. So the Finns of Peru suggest that we use these resources and prioritise better so that group sizes are reduced, and rather so that the salaries of day care staff are raised to the level they deserve. And we also want to keep it that under no circumstances must we create such pressure that everyone should take the child to day care because at home the child is Korean.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u73	Mr President! I will take the floor to briefly comment on three points in this proposal. Firstly, there has been some emphasis here on the dignity of this law by the government parties and also on the opposition and, for example, on how the primacy of the child's interests is now recorded. On the other hand, there have been lists of flaws which are almost all time fundamental, as it were, in the sense of equality in society, as well as on a research basis. I think it is important to note that this law is now setting priorities for Finnish early education, as it were when this law came into force. So we are not investing in subjective full-time early childhood education, we are not investing in group size issues, we are not investing in the need for special support. We are investing in other issues, and that is the question of priorities, in what order things are to be promoted or not to be promoted. I think it is important for both the opposition and the government to understand that this is perhaps the greatest importance of this vote. In the final vote, we have already seen that there will be no changes to the performance itself. Therefore, this sort of contradictory early childhood education policy continues in this country, where there is weakening, then experiments are carried out and reforms are also referred to as non-repair measures. Secondly, it is good to say that, while we have indeed had a great deal of contradiction in the regulation at national level in recent years, fortunately, the municipalities are more consistent. Vantaa has been praised here, which I understand is also correcting its old flaw in subjective delimitation, which is good. Then there have been cities, such as Helsinki, where in the first place none of these handicaps have been made, not subjective capping or group sizes, and now, with Vantaa’s good example, we are starting to discuss pay. But from a social point of view, this is an intolerable political situation that we have more coherence than the state in regulation, and it sends out a special message about the development of our early education as a country which, I repeat, won the starting well index only a few years ago. That is what I would like everyone from the opposition to the government to be committed to and deepened as we take these decisions in the future and continue to push forward early childhood education. Then, thirdly, as Mr Multala rightly said, all research shows that education really increases quality, but such a deeper understanding of what kind of education, how focused and so on, is of course less. Therefore, when we look into the 20th and 30th centuries, as is thought of in this law, I hope that thinking will not be as hierarchical as this bill would be and, on the other hand, very thin. It is quite unusual in this time of change in work that we are actually dealing with the kind of proposal that was so thinly justified in this law. Finally, Mr President, I support the statements made by Mr Sarkkinen, which were already formulated in committee in good cooperation with the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u74	Mr President! A few comments on today's debate. First of all, the law is a good improvement on the current situation and, as the committee has written, there is also progress to be made. In other words, the transition to three-tier support such as basic education and the drafting of its legislation are one step, i.e. it is good to define the roles of psychologists, curators and special teacher of early childhood education in the education and education of young children. The criticism has been directed at the staff structure, but I believe that this proposal gives all professional groups the right to their own professional title and training, which must then be reflected in the daily life of the day care centre. This clarifies the current situation. In that committee we were told that there are currently no university-educated kindergarten teachers. In other words, it is a good thing that this staff structure can then be gradually corrected over a long transition period, so that I can think that within five to ten years there has already been some improvement. Many times the speeches have referred to the quality of early childhood education and to the fact that early childhood education is impressive. In my opinion, there is quality early childhood education when the child’s interest is taken into account and the learning environments are built in such a way that the child’s age and level of development are taken into account. It also involves caring — arms have been missed here many times. And it is an essential part of early childhood education that learning takes place through play. Representative Heinonen needed group sizes for basic education, and this older teacher remembers that group sizes were previously defined, the regulation defined. As I recall, in the late '90s, a new law came and these group sizes were abolished. The largest group size was 32 pupils, and then, separately, the number of pupils was smaller for the first and second classes. But what happened after these group boundaries were removed? Group sizes decreased. At least in my own municipality they decreased considerably. Instead of trying to reach that maximum group size, it was appropriate. It is easy to agree with Mr Multala's idea and wish for these groups. When the finances of the municipalities are in order and the decision-makers of the municipalities have sufficient knowledge, understanding and courage to make those decisions for the benefit of children, I believe that group groups should be appropriate in order to achieve the objectives of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u75	Mr President! It is actually quite gratifying to see that early childhood education always talks a lot in Parliament, both earlier in this period, when laws have been passed, as it is now. It tells us that early childhood education is important and we are very interested in it and we want to ensure quality, good early childhood education in this country. This is another way of tackling the problem of improving quality, but we must agree with the same concern that has been expressed here in many speeches, that when resources are insufficient, the primary remedy should be to ensure that sufficient resources are provided to ensure that there are sufficient groups and that every child has the right to full-time early education. And when these governments took away from their early years, even though this law itself has very good objectives for improving the quality of education, ensuring multi-professionalism and so on, that base is now weak because of these earlier weakenings, and in that sense it does not achieve the quality that is needed in early childhood education. As Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said earlier, for example, we have: In Joensuu, we now lost the vote to ensure that group sizes are not increased and that every child is entitled to subjective day care. These are the ones we lost. Many municipalities have managed to maintain these, and that is a very good thing, but the problem is that now our children in this country are in an unequal position: their place of residence and the background of their parents affects whether they receive day care, early childhood education, how much they receive and whether each child there has enough time, whether there is enough staff there. Mrs Parviainen said that the restriction of the group size could also lead to situations where it would become the maximum, in a way, when it could be something less. But as we are looking at our municipal court at the moment, we know that it is not the limit, but on the contrary: if we had a group size in the law there, we would guarantee that those groups would be smaller than they are currently average. In other words, the ideal situation for municipalities to have sufficient resources and the understanding of decision-makers in the municipalities would be so great that they would go below what is defined as the maximum, unfortunately there is no today, and that is why the limit would need to be set in the regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u76	Madam President! The discussion on the law on early childhood education now seems to be about the subjective right of children to early childhood education, equal treatment, insufficient staffing and oversized group sizes, and the quality of early childhood education in general, and equal treatment of employees, well-being at work and well-being at work. It seems that, using this traditional line-up, the differences between the right and the left on the rights of children, on equal treatment and, above all, on the interests of children are, in principle and fundamentally, very different. In the debate on subjective rights, it is repeatedly claimed that this would prevent children's rights to their own parents. In the background, the view is that parents do not, in principle, want to spend time with their children. I am systematically trying to avoid provocation, but I find it absolutely scandalous to bring up such attitudes and claims. This can be seen in a similar attitude to that of the unemployed, who are ultimately seen as unemployed in their own laziness. The subjective right of children to early childhood education has so far not meant that the child has ever been forced into day care. The right to early childhood education should not be confused with the obligation to pre-school education. The debate as to whether the primary responsibility for raising children for society or for parents is completely irrelevant, for no one has at any time even hinted that the responsibility of parents should be called into question. Finally, the oversized groups are the biggest single problem, as it is reflected in many of the other shortcomings raised in numerous speeches. In fact, it is the most frequently repeated problem in this Chamber across party boundaries. It has been addressed by representatives of both the opposition and the government. With regard to the right of children to individual care and care or to prevent bullying, I personally feel deeply sorry that the bill has not addressed this very flaw. Finally, as such a new representative, I am not at all convinced that this eternal mutual accusation of what each government or ministry has done in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in the past, in this situation, would be something that would lead to any further progress in the matter of common affairs. Instead, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, here and now, we have had the opportunity to deal together with commonly recognised shortcomings. Although the draft law raises many positive reforms and new openings, the draft law is still incomplete in many respects, not least because it does not address the underlying problems and shortcomings that should be in order to enable us at all to implement these new ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u77	Mr President! I have listened to these conversations for a couple of days, and I began to feel that I was too old to remember the kind of upbringing I have given my own child. As a single parent, I am happy that then my mother and my extensive support network took care of the child until the age of school. Of course, there were these different clubs that were then transported to. For that, I am also grateful that the daughter-in-law made the decision that, as a low-paid municipal worker, she was with two children until 7 years at home. From that I thought I would tell you that this led to the fact that even today, even though children are over 20 years old, they have no secret, but they always collectively wonder how to do it, and if there are difficulties or moments of joy, then they will be discussed with the parents. But I do not want to be guilty because today's working life is based on the fact that many times children have to be taken to day care, it is not possible to stay at one of their homes. If, then, the law says that even the child’s opinion is taken into account, many times the child says that he or she should go to day care — that how do these rights of the child be emphasized in that sense? But I do not really want to blame, but it is important that the child has a safe place, whether it is at home or at home, which I am in favour of — home care support is very good and should be developed for parents who want to care for children — or whether it is a place that needs to be safe and familiar and peaceful and peaceful. Last night we were watching TV, and there were these paedophile cases, so I would say that those who work with children should have their background examined quite carefully so that things like this would not happen. These are always individual ones. Well, what's that good early childhood education thing? Some give it at home and others, as I said, at day care. I've been visiting our municipal day care center. In that sense, it is a good kindergarten that children can stay there overnight if they need to. I would stress the fact that the child is very small and that when he goes to day care and is there until he is perhaps 5 years old, it is not healthy for children to be constantly pushed into learning it. We parents, too, know that we have watched children at home, that many times they spin on the feet of others, that there is no need to learn that, but it is important that children are taught that community and that children are treated equally, and learn these regulations, eating habits and all these things together. [President : Time! ] - Well, I'll just go on a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u78	Madam President! The main flaw in this law is, in my opinion, that it does not remedy the significant deterioration in early childhood education during this parliamentary term, i.e. the limitation of subjective day care rights and the increase in group sizes. This law does emphasise the primacy of the best interests of the child, but limiting the subjective right to day care and raising groups of over three years of age by this government is a flagrant violation of this principle. In the new law these weakenings should have been reversed. The limitation of the subjective right to day care has led to differences in municipal solutions. Not all children have equal rights to quality early childhood education regardless of the background, the labour market status of the parents or their place of residence. In the same context, the decision to increase the number of children over the age of three has been made or not implemented in a very different way across the country. Together, these savings in early childhood education have led to a very wide variety of child groups depending on their place of residence. The inequality between children and families has increased depending on the municipality in which they live. The study on the impact of changes in the legislation of early childhood education has found that municipalities have exercised their right to self-government in connection with the changes in the legislation of 2016 and have resolved issues related to the subjective right to early childhood education and the ratio between children and adults in kindergarten groups in various ways. In some municipalities and day-care centres, the compositions of groups of children are diverse. There is an increase in the number of children in groups and the number of children in groups. Among workers and parents, these changes have been critically assessed. According to employees, their opportunities for individual consideration of children have decreased, and workers also described an increase in anxiety, noise, cramping of spaces and incidents in day-care centres. Parents criticise changes that have weakened the equality of children and families and the permanence of peer relations between children. Many day care centres are also plagued by staff turnover — sometimes it seems that pendulums go both ways when permanent replacements are not available — and this naturally also stresses children when they are not the one you know there. The ratio between children and adults should enable high-quality early childhood education, and the quality of early childhood education must be uniform regardless of the municipality and place of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u79	Mr President! I look back and see that Riitta Mäkinen is still there. He made his first speech in this Finnish Parliament a moment ago, and I thank you. It was excellent, even touching. President! I have been here throughout this important debate and I do not exaggerate at all if I say that this leading point of the social democrats – that is to say, this guarantee of subjective early childhood education rights, so that children are in an equal position – has come to the fore across party boundaries. We would have liked it to be fixed here and now. The same applies to this reduction in the group sizes of kindergartens, because the government's proposal is now very contradictory that, as important as raising this level of pedagogy, it will be very lame if the group sizes are not reduced. Then this increase in the level of training of staff in the government proposal is in itself the right direction. I don't think so. I don't think so. With Mäkipää in that respect, but I say it in this way: the period between this board and these changes in staff is exceptionally long. It extends to 2030. Who of us really knows what the need for workers is? The level of education and multi-professionalism is probably still the most important resource, which underlines the need to raise the pedagogical level of both nannies and socionomists and kindergarten teachers, all of them. This world and life are changing all the time to this sort of thing, that is an over-enthusiastic life for young children, and it is then very challenging to raise, develop and guide children. — Like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u80	Madam President! The children are somewhere in the age of questioning. Now Congressman Myllykoski is at the age of speaking. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Gustafsson for his many professionalism and expertise, because it is changing all the time. Today we are already demanding much more media reading capabilities from ourselves, and this is where we come as a whole to early childhood education. We must understand that children are more mature in using our IT tools and in adopting certain things through it. We need to have it in early childhood education, and then every person working with children must have a certain amount of normal educational skills related to education. But even though this went all the way to 2030, I think it is good that we do not make the same mistake as the government, where the Left Alliance was, when we were very narrowing down the curators' work skills. It is now of the utmost importance to ensure the identification of skills and to give socio-nomics educational skills in university education, so that they are also entitled to education in early childhood education, so that this multiplicity of skills can take place, because it is really important that... I do not believe that we will ever face it, as Mr Mäkipää said, that we have separate lessons there in family day care, but early childhood education is a whole thing. That learning takes place in the everyday life of day care centres, and in that case each staff group must have the capacity for this early childhood education. I understand that there is this university level education which I myself have advocated — that there should be people for us different learners who can identify the needs we have — certainly an important issue for the assembly. If I now look at the voting maps of the various professional groups, it is easy to lead from there why there is such a great deal of voice about this matter. There are good things here but there are also weaknesses, but a long transition period allows the future government to live in rhythm and form the right learning paths for every professional in early childhood education and family day care, so that it is in the best interests of children and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u81	Mr President! As a new law, the law on early childhood education now being adopted is relevant to the fact that it is specifically child-oriented and that matters have been considered from the perspective of the child and in the best interests of the child. That's clearly groundbreaking. What is significant in it is also the prevention of bullying, which is now recorded at the legal level, that every child has the right to early education, where there is no need to endure bullying. It is important that it is addressed at an early stage. During the current regime, the government has improved the economic situation. The employment situation has increased, the economic situation of municipalities has improved, and these will hopefully also be reflected in the resources allocated to early education by municipalities there. Group sizes have also been raised here, the number of nurses. Each municipality has the opportunity to increase those resources to early childhood education in accordance with its own priority. I hope that even in the municipalities where many of us here in Parliament are sitting, early childhood education will be seen as an important part and will also be appreciated there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u82	Madam President! It must be said to Mr Laiho that unfortunately the actions of the government do not correspond to these speeches. It is wonderful that, at the level of the law, we are talking about the child's interests, but that is not the case in the real world. The aim must be to move towards free early childhood education in the long term. In Finland, only 75 per cent of people over the age of four are currently taking part in early childhood education, and this participation rate should be raised. It is clear that when a child goes to day care when he is little, it is first that basic needs are satisfied, eating and sleeping and outdoors, but the more age a child becomes, the more skills there will be in this early childhood education. What I think was a failure in this legislation in particular was this confrontation between the various categories of staff. All employee groups and occupational groups are important that care and grow them in our little eyelets there in the day care centre. I think that this should be the guiding principle from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u83	Mr President! After listening to this whole debate, perhaps a few aspects of the nature and essential speciality of early childhood education in Finland would somehow not be imagined that this law would, on the one hand, bring them — or, in fact, might even weaken them. First of all, one of the key features of early childhood education in Finland has been that we combine education, education and care, and it has had its own term, educare, which has been studied and compared internationally. With reference to both Mr Mäkipää and Mr Myllykoski's speeches, we should perhaps be aware of this, everyone. We think about early childhood education today that every situation is a learning situation. By no means do we sort different situations in terms of education, care and education. So this is what we are trying to highlight in other parts of the world as a model that has produced good results. Then, as a second question, perhaps this question, raised by Mr Laiho in front of the child. Mr Ojala-Niemelä quite rightly said that they are of course a bit of a letter of the law and then they contradict the action at this point when we talk about group size or subjective rights, but it is perhaps good to recognise again in the best interests of the child that Finnish early childhood education has been different for decades, compared internationally, precisely with the fact that it is very child-oriented, child-oriented. Our pedagogical training is like that. In other words, the situation in our early childhood education is this way, and that is what we are trying to deepen and improve in the future, hopefully with a proper early childhood education reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u84	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u85	Madam President! At the first reading of this law, we had a rather lively debate in this Chamber, and now, at this second reading, I am protesting, which indeed contains a wreck. This objection has been signed by the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance, the Finns and the Greens in committee. With regard to the reasons for this objection: According to the proposal, the company to be set up would produce public services cheaper without any staff reductions and would invest in external financing. In addition, the company would be responsible for new expense items, such as taxation and pension arrangements, and would generate moderate profits. The same cost promise cannot be given to other users. The draft law cannot justify why the savings from more efficient operations cannot be achieved in the form of an agency. The company’s business would be based on the commercialisation of information generated by the digitalisation of transport, which has not been given examples. The proposal merely refers to the potential of a turnover of EUR 22 billion on the total transport market. According to the proposal, the new company would act as a catalyst for the exploitation of digital information but would not interfere with the commercial market. It is not clear from the presentation how this could be achieved in practice when the company produces significant amounts of information that it is trying to make a successful use of in the market itself. According to the proposal, the proposed arrangement is said to be a unique entity without a European benchmark. It is precisely for this reason that it should be possible to provide strong and concrete criteria for such an arrangement. Now there is no concrete in the business model. Corporateisation is justified by improving cost transparency. We strongly disagree on this. In company form, financial details tend to become business secrets of the company, and the company form would not improve transparency for the supreme decision-making authority of the state-owner. This is significant because the company is about to be transferred to the public authorities and the company is practically budget-funded through the Transport Agency agreement. Financial transparency could certainly also be achieved through the development of internal accounting. Moreover, the company's form is unlikely to be more effective in managing the steering services as the agency becomes a contract-based system. The company and On the contrary, a service agreement between the Finnish Transport Agency slows down the steering of services that are important to society. The management and support resources of the new company combined with the purchase and supervision tasks of the contract model The Finnish Transport Agency take on the benefits of the incorporation. Companying is also apparent in the sense that the company would be set up as a special task company controlled by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It is bad governance that the draftsman of the legislation of the sector would at the same time direct both the company and its only customer, the Finnish Transport Agency. The success and functioning of the company’s business in the commercial market would require even separation of ownership control. We therefore believe it is likely that the model proposed could not function in the longer term and that changes to the company's ownership base would be introduced rather quickly against the original proposal. In short: on the basis of the above, we propose that from 1 to 12. the draft law is rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u86	Madam President! Based on the above in-depth, good and detailed report, the representative of which: Taimela did, I support the motion for rejection. In particular, I find the paragraph in the report which justifies the incorporation of companies with cost transparency to be incomprehensible. I can't really understand that this kind of worker, who comes from that trade union and who has worked for a limited company, could imagine that it would be possible for it to become more transparent when you go into the form of a company. I cannot help but be surprised how the government can produce such a text in its explanatory statement. Companies have business secrets that no one can ever question. It's in the Companies Act. Until now, we have not been able to interfere with what is happening inside the company. We can require certain measures by means of ownership control that the company must follow, but even by ownership control we cannot determine that we should walk over the law of limited liability companies by means of ownership control. It was great when the Meteorological Institute was not going to be incorporated when the availability of information and international success were based on the fact that it was a unit producing open data. That is how it served the most Finnish society and was commercially important. It received part of the funding from the State, but to a large extent it also received funding from international operators and commercial operators. At this point, I can only be surprised how, for example, the representatives of the centre party can be behind this motion so alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u87	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes the transformation of the Finnish Transport Agency's traffic control and management services into a limited liability company, and the aim of this government's proposal is that information collected through traffic management should benefit society as a whole more effectively than before. Representative Taimela protested against this government proposal and this report by the Committee on Transport and Communications. I myself would like to say that the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications is quite critical, and when the Committee on Transport and Communications went through this matter, critical positions and views were also very strongly brought about by representatives of all parties, which may be the result of this government proposal, but the majority of the committee nevertheless considers that the criteria and objectives of incorporation to be acceptable in principle. We already have experience of the types of activities that have been incorporated, and they have also proved their worth. I would like to say that the committee is concerned that company-based activities are not subject to democratic control, as is the case with an agency. This is also stated in the committee's report. It has also been said that it is important to develop and increase the flow of information between the various actors in the future, and transparency is needed, as Mrs Myllykoski has already pointed out in her speech. This committee's report also states that the reform must not undermine public security and therefore not jeopardise, for example, rescue measures, and it considers it important that the preparation for crisis situations should be ensured as well as the proper handling of confidential material. All in all, the committee is also concerned about the costs of the incorporation and draws the Government's attention to the fact that, as a result of the incorporation, customer fees should not be increased and the cost level should not increase. It was precisely these customer charges that were discussed in committee, and I understand that the committee was very unanimous on this issue. However, I would now like to say that the representatives of the centre are behind this government's proposal and I hope that this will also move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u88	Madam President! The representative Torniainen well justified this government's proposal, and I simply wanted to join in the debate because digitality is increasing in Finland. In that sense, data processing and the digitalisation of transport are important issues for better integration and exploitation of these widely collected data from different ministries or actors in the future. There are a lot of safety issues in transport, which increases the need for this. This is a way of getting governance in one deck, if you could say so, and that is why I think this is important and this incorporation is positive. However, as was stated here, there is a lot of work to be done on this explanatory statement, but the proposal is unanimous on the board, and that is why, as a centreman, we can take this issue of incorporation further.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u89	Madam President! In fact, at this second reading, I would like to point out what, in a sense, came up in this somewhat painful speech by Mrs Torniainen, that if you read and reflect on these general arguments of the committee, they could even give you the impression that the committee would have tabled a piece of legislation at the end. I would like to raise a few very important points which have therefore been included in the committee's report. In other words, the committee considers that the criteria and objectives of incorporation are ‘in principle supported’ but that‘ownership guidance is not very solid andthat the company-shaped activity also requires compliance with business principles’. Then,in the general arguments put forward by the Then the committee is also concerned about the concern which has often arisen in committee hearings that this form of company would not undermine cooperation between the authorities and the coordination of the authorities, which I am sure all the members of the committee attach great importance to. But then, as far as these costs are concerned, it can be read in the committee's report that there is such a mention here: 'However, the proposal does not mention the additional costs that the company will incur. The committee is concerned about the costs of the incorporation and draws the Government's attention to the fact that as a result of the incorporation, customer fees should not be increased and the cost level should not increase." I myself, at least, think of a few draft reports in this House, which I myself have signed myself over the years and which have been involved in the debates, that this committee's report is such a hard and critical text that I still wonder whether even the representatives of the government parties are actually a glamour behind this proposal, because it is so critical. Then, if you think that my esteemed colleague, Mrs Torniainen, raised in her own speech the concern that what this might lead to now, although in a way we should be able to legislate in this house, that we, when we do it, know exactly where it will lead.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u90	Madam President! Here's your representative. The issue of costs was well raised by the trout. That is what was asked at committee meetings on many occasions and, as this report says, attention will be paid to the increase in costs, but it has never been said whether they will increase costs. There is concern as to whether this will cause costs. After all, this suggests that every time you are incorporated, it increases costs. That's not necessarily the case. Yes, it may be that, in some long run, the aim of its cooperation is also to calculate costs or at least to curb the rise, as is the case in other contexts. The second point is, then, the danger of rescue and such cooperation. This is an important point that the committee paid particular attention to the fact that cooperation and the flow of information between different sectors must be so seamless that the activities of all our security-related areas and areas must not be jeopardised. In this committee's opinion, it is a matter of merit and I think it is important that public safety is taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u91	Madam President! As I said in my previous speech, the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications is quite critical and has raised a number of issues. The aim of this proposal is to promote the use of transport-related information to support the development of new digital services and to contribute to the emergence of new business in the future. We all know that transport is undergoing a major change and that the forms of transport are undergoing a major change, and only the future will show what major changes are going to take place. Mr Pakkanen already referred in his own speech to this transformation, which is taking place. The fact is that that form of company is not always the better form. The form of office can also be better. The future shows where this government proposal leads, but I personally believe that this is a forward-looking proposal and good to take forward. The fact is that the company's form also provides faster and better opportunities for the development of new operations, business development and adaptation to new challenges, even within the framework of state ownership management, as is the case here. We also have examples such as Finavia or ANS Finland or Finland's Separate Networks, which are good examples of company-based, well-functioning operations. I believe that this government proposal will also lead to that in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u92	Madam President! It has not been a long time since Finavia made some kind of shops that have been on display. But I must say that Mrs Myllykoski is speechless after these two speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u95	Mr President! Let's be brief. Finavia was mentioned, among other things, who at the time misjudged the values of derivative transactions, but it is currently in a very heavy blow. During this government it has been hit very hard, able to make up to a billion investments — in good condition. Similarly, VR has been raised to a whole new level. VR was pricing himself out of the market, as we know. It is now clearly better served by people. Finnair has also clearly improved the situation. We now also have the opportunity, for example, to get regional local transport on the lines when competition is opened up. It will produce very important things for regional development. The Swedish model is perfect for this. I mentioned only a few things when it is often suggested from the left that nothing should change. I say that if VR hadn't changed, it would have priced itself out of the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u96	Madam President! Congressman Myllykoski said that when you go to a limited company, you always go with a bag on your head. Well, that's also a metaphorical expression, of course. However, I personally regard the form of limited liability company as equally sensible. It's not always a form of office that guarantees no bills. Of course, the company can collect payments, but at least as a transport professional, I get payments from many agencies, and they collect money there too. It is also standard practice on the agency side to make those payments. Is it going to rise or lower the charges? This proposal does not take a position on that. The limited company is at least open and can be monitored, but in particular it is better than the agency that it is agile for decision-makers. It can be followed up, and if it is observed in time that it is not the best form of action, then of course it can be abandoned in time, but in this context I think it is very important that this alternative form of limited liability company is now seen in these agency reforms. At least I am not afraid that this is why no level of payment in Finland will rise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u97	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u98	Madam President! The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has done an excellent job, for which I thank the Committee. This relaxation of the protection of the female and its introduction into the scope of the species to be hunted is a very good decision. This European nature conservation policy in this country has quite a lot to do with its ability to tackle the livelihoods quite harshly. I am referring to the protection of the wolf and the bear, which are on the endangered list, and neither of these great beasts mentioned just now is certainly endangered. There are so many of them in Finland today that I don't even dare to go and judge how many there are, but when you see them every day, there are so many, so it's not a question of being threatened. This situation so far in the protection of the female has caused a lot of problems, and this is reflected in every municipality in Finland. Fortunately, this has now been done, but if it had not been done, the harm would increase and, once it has been on the list of protected animals, it will of course also give the state liability. As we know, these funds, which compensate for the harm caused by various protected animals, are only a very limited number. This year too, the money will probably run out, and then those who suffer damage from Parliament's decisions on protection and the EU's decisions on protection will have to lick their hands. For example, the adverse effects of very many of these types of protected species affect agriculture, said the threats posed by the wolf in agriculture. Today we have to make genuine ones so that domestic animals, useful animals, can be safely fed. After all, in ancient times great beasts were put in zoos and others lived free, but now it is the other way around: people are put in fences and wild beasts are allowed to be free. This world has changed a little over the last decade. [Current Group: It's changed!] I would now very much like to see these various species of the Habitats annexes examined a little more critically in this Chamber, that those which are not endangered there should be removed and, at the same time, reduce the obligation of the State to compensate for these damage. In this case, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has indeed done a good job and taken a spoon in a beautiful hand and made a wise decision that there is no need for the state to pay for such matters. The cormorants are a species that would also need immediate measures, because they have caused enormous damage on the coast and in the archipelago today, and I would therefore like the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to act on the subject of cormorants. I'm sure this government won't be able to make that decision again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u99	Madam President! I would like to present the main points of my objection to this report in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which also contains a proposal to reject this draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u104	Mr President! I support Mrs Halmemenpää's proposal. Mr Halmemenpää explained this very well and in detail. The government's motion has been overstated. Even with much lighter measures, the damage caused by females can be limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u106	Mr President! If only other committees were to legislate on human terms and on the basis of the problems that exist in society. I understand that, and my own values work in such a way that more laws should be passed here for the citizens, not for organisations and not for regulatory control and not for bureaucracy. I feel that they will live without being helped by Parliament in every law. This is an excellent thing for me to do when the female calms down, because, as Mrs Halmemenpää said here in her good speech, the female is an intelligent bird. As a hunter, I would also say that there is no danger that the female population in Finland will be in danger, even though the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has done this. I find it inconceivable that someone should always know in advance to ask for permission, as is the current practice, because he does not know whether there will be problems. When people’s property is in danger and damage and problems come, it is a simple thing: so, as this law now allows, then the problem will be dealt with. That is what society should do. I do not believe that anyone, along with their own works, is going to harass the females unless they cause a real problem. This is the kind of legislation that should be made more in this house. I think this is an excellent example. It is good that the government parties have made such a change, because it is also because and in principle good that it gives this whole gym in its own way an example of how these things should be handled. We cannot endlessly listen to various organisations and government officials who may have their own vision but who ignore local problems, because I do not think that it is always well known that where in Finland what becomes a problem at any time. Mr Hoskonen gave a good speech here on cormorants and white cheek geese. The same applies to them, which means that it is a problem in which legislation needs to be adapted. Then if there is an extinct species, then the law will be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u107	Madam President! First of all, it is a pleasure to be able to accompany the female among the unsettled bird species defined in the Hunting Act. With this amendment of the law, we can limit the damage caused by women. As has already been pointed out here at first reading, females cause significant damage to agriculture by, among other things, violating feed bales, soiling feed stocks, thereby, among other things, increasing the risk of salmonella. In addition, the food industry has a large number of farms in which the females have nested and have taken over, and the food industry also has a high risk of spreading these diseases. Then, too, many households and summer homes have been plagued each year by the fact that the chimneys or air ducts are covered with macaroni. This legislative change will also allow flexibility and efficiency in dealing with this problem. As stated in the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, this hunting can be carried out within the framework of the provisions of the hunting law, i.e. during the breeding period these birds will not be hunted. This can also be seen as a question of dismantling red tape. To date, the permits have had to be requested from the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomi, and they have taken up to two months to process them there. This will achieve significant efficiency. In addition, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry drew attention to the possibility of hunting for the protection of these white cheek geese and cormorants, because the damage caused by them is also very significant and, among other things, the position of white cheek geese in Finland is also growing significantly in Europe. This would have to be done preferably through the Ministry of the Environment, because it would still be possible to compensate for the disadvantages caused by these birds, that is to say, so-called hunting for shelter. If it were dealt with through the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in the same way as this issue now, then these compensations would not be paid. For my part, I would like to express my greatest thanks not only to the government parties but also to those parties in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry who supported this bill, namely the SDP, the RKP, the Christian Democrats and the People's Party of Finland, who were united behind this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u108	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the hunting law by adding the female to the list of unsettled birds of the hunting law. Many farmers will probably sigh that at last, because the proposal seeks to limit the damage and disadvantages caused to them by the growth of the population. In the future, it will be easier to reduce the number of females without an exemption system. The population of Finland has grown very strongly, especially in the 21st century. The increase in the stock in almost the whole of Finland has also led to an increase in the harm and damage caused by females. As we have already heard a few times today, females, among other things, cause crop damage, break silage bales, nest very often in the chimneys of buildings and other depths of buildings, and muffle the surrounding areas of their excrement. Female feces therefore pose a certain risk of hygiene and disease. The disadvantages caused by the females are therefore beyond doubt. When I asked experts in committee what good it was then, one expert gave me an answer that it was part of biodiversity. At that moment, no good could be found in the female by other experts. Between 2012 and 2016, the Centres for Economic Affairs, Transport and the Environment have paid a total of more than EUR 400000 for the damage caused by women. Most of the grants have been used to compensate for agricultural damage. In order to compensate for the damage, the subsidy would no longer be paid. Article 7 of the Birds Directive allows for the year-round relaxation of the species for the female, which is an excellent thing. This will allow for more extensive measures to limit the damage caused by females than the derogation system of the Nature Conservation Act. According to the motion, the calming of the female would be dismantled by adding the female to the list of unsettled birds. The catching and killing of females would take place within the limits of the hunting law. However, the catch of females is still prohibited during the breeding season, when the catch of females is only possible under the derogation granted by the Finnish game centre or the notification procedure provided for in the hunting law. Madam President! I think this proposal is very good. At the same time, however, it should be allowed to catch females and crows with the so-called crows, which were very effective in reducing the crow stock when they were still allowed. I myself have caught hundreds of crows, if not thousands of crows, when that was still possible in the law. Varishac is also good in the sense that it can be freed from crow birds or protected birds, such as those who are not wanted to be caught. It also significantly reduces the number of so-called ulcers. Unfortunately, the EU has banned such selective gear in its wisdom. Finland should play its part in allowing the future use of crowshells by the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u109	Madam President! The government's proposal to amend the hunting law is excellent. Whenever we talk about the relationship between animals and humans, it is strangely forgotten in that conversation that man is the one of these species with discretion. This amendment to the hunting law does not, therefore, obliges the removal or destruction of females, nor does it prevent voluntary prevention measures relating to the damage caused by females, but, at the discretion of businessmen and property owners in rural areas, for example, there are still all the means available to prevent them, but there are now more effective ways of bringing this strain to a more sustainable level and reducing the disadvantages. It is also an appropriate use of taxpayers' money. With particular interest, I look forward to the government also taking up the committee's role in this report, which takes a position on the practice of hunting for white cheek geese and cormorants and the related regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u110	Madam President! Mrs Hautala sent her thanks to the SDP and I am happy to accept these thanks. I can say that the SDP also attaches great importance to this move of the female into an unsettled bird, and such government proposals can also be welcomed. As has been heard here, the female population has increased significantly and has learned to exploit the food, breeding and residence sites associated with farming, animal management and other human activities in a harmful way. In addition, the female is a major obstacle to the success of breeding other bird species. The harm and damage caused by the female has increased, and one can say that this reform, the change of legislation, will save resources in many ways in the future. The payment of compensation, the frustrating search for authorisation and the delay in the authorisation process will be eliminated by this legislation. The strain is now very resistant to the removal of individuals, and the strains are not at risk of being unsettled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u111	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u112	Madam President! After tenacious waiting, I would like to make a reasoned statement in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u113	Mr President! The new Business Secrets Act provides for the protection of business secrets and civil remedies. The proposal implements the EU Directive on the protection of business secrets. The importance of data protection and hence business secrets for research and development, innovation and competitiveness has been emphasised by developments in the information society and digitalisation. On the other hand, the transparency of information and the exploitation of the skills of employees are also prerequisites for the emergence of new innovations and the development of the economy. Thus, regulation of intangible capital and business secrets is always a balance between the protection of business secrets and the transparency of information and the mobility of knowledge. Mr President! One of the key principles of the Business Secrets Directive is not only the protection of business secrets but also the protection of the public interest. It is also important in Finnish legislation to safeguard the possibility of reporting irregularities to the competent authorities or to disclose irregularities or unlawful conduct without prejudice to the Code of Business Secrets where this is necessary for the public interest. In practice, this may be the case, for example, when an employee of a construction company informs the competition authority of his suspicions of cartels or when an employee of a bank reveals the structures of international tax evasion in public or when an employee of a company that manufactures sneakers reports to human rights organisations about the exploitation of the production chain, which has not been addressed by the management of the company. It is difficult, if not impossible, to define the general interest and its acceptable protection in a comprehensive manner in the legislation, so ultimately the legitimate exercise of freedom of expression and the protection of the public interest are defined in case law. Mr President! In the Government’s proposal, Article 5 of the Business Secrets Act states that the protection of business secrets is somewhat broader and that the protection of whistleblowers is narrower than that of the corresponding article of the Business Secrets Directive. In its report, however, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy quite rightly considers it important that the proposed provision allows the competent authority to be informed of illegal activities for the purpose of protecting the public interest in order to detect abuses or illegal activities. According to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the provision of information on illegal activities often plays a key role both in the performance of the statutory task of the authorities and in the clear protection of the public interest. It is important that this well-founded position of the committee is reflected when the law is applied and that the threshold for obtaining protection for whistleblowers is not in practice higher than the directive. Mr President! In the explanatory memorandum to the Act, channels for dealing with intra-corporate abuses are seen as the primary means of obtaining and addressing information on abuses. However, the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy rightly stresses that abuses cover a very wide range of situations and that there is no justification for regulation to restrict the disclosure of business secrets in order to reveal abuses more widely. The committee believes that a hierarchy should not be built in the notification channels either because of the full harmonisation of the provisions of the Business Secrets Directive. In all cases, internal notification channels cannot be considered as a priority or the best means of notification, but it should be possible to make notifications directly to competition authorities, for example, for a justified reason. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also draws attention to the efforts made at EU level to further strengthen and harmonise the protection of whistleblowers. The Commission has recently put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law. Mr President! The law contains the idea of pre-emptive lobbying. However, a person who has discovered irregularities cannot be required to have an exhaustive interest before submitting a notification to the authorities, but the threshold for notification should be low in order to bring irregularities to the attention of the authorities. In any event, this is not included in the EU Directive and will be implemented in practice when the matter is dealt with by the authorities. The treatment of the authorities is confidential and the information notified will only become public if the authorities take legal action on the basis of the notice. For example, cartel activities must not be reported to the competent authority because the whistleblower is forced to act insecure and to fear for his or her position or consequences. It must always be possible to inform the authorities of the irregularities detected, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states in the report that Article 5 of the proposed law It must be interpreted as meaning that the disclosure of business secrets, for example when notifying the competent authority of an infringement of competition law, is justified. Mr President! The committee's report is a very good and well-founded one, but we still missed some changes in the section in committee. At the first reading of the draft law, there was an objection to the amendments to the articles which unfortunately did not go through. It would have been justified to add an exception to the law in relation to witnessing in court. This would also clarify the relationship between the proposed law and the legal cycle. In particular, it would have been justified to clarify the relationship between the right to testify in accordance with the Code of Conduct and the confidentiality agreement referred to in the Code of Business Secrets. In practice, there have been cases of attempts to prove evidence and, in part, to prevent it by relying on confidentiality agreements. In addition, as regards the technical guidance, it would have been justified in the articles to determine the form in which the technical guidance could take in order to obtain the protection provided for by the law. Too broad or unclear a definition of technical guidance can reduce the mobility of labour and know-how and, in fact, prevent the exploitation of knowledge and know-how covered by normal skills and experience. Oral information that does not include business secrecy should be considered as normal professional competence. With regard to the confidentiality agreement, too, the law would have needed clarification. This would prevent the employer from restricting the employee’s ability to use his or her professional skills or experience at a later stage by means of a non-disclosure agreement. It would be necessary to make a legal limitation that a confidentiality agreement concluded during an employment relationship may be valid only for a reasonable period after the termination of the employment relationship. Mr President! Parliament should also take a firm position on the issue of non-compete issues in particular. The legislation should be reformed on the basis of a recent report published by Jukka Ahtela. The report proposes to amend the regulation on non-compete agreements in order to further assess the need for a non-compete agreement, the information to be protected and the scope of the agreement. The problem with the current law and practice is that non-compete agreements are sometimes issued to employees on a feeble basis and without adequate compensation. This can hamper labour mobility and workers' career and earning opportunities. Mr Ahtela points out that it is obvious that in practice non-compete agreements are currently being concluded on a very large scale without an adequate and particularly weighty assessment of the reason. It is also evident that the regulation of non-compete agreements, for example mandatory compensation, is a very common model in the control countries. Given the increasing mobility of labour and international business in Europe, it is also necessary to keep pace with the pace of regulatory developments in other countries. Mr President! In some cases employers have a genuine need to use non-compete agreements and there is no reason to remove this possibility. However, it is not in the public interest to slow down the healthy movement of the workforce any more than is necessary. On this basis, I support the very well-founded objection put forward by Mr Ihalainen, which suggests that the government should immediately start preparing amendments to the employment contract legislation to correct:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u114	Madam President! Until now, Finland has not had a separate law on the protection of business secrets. However, there is a separate law on intangible rights, such as patents, trademarks and copyrights. The Criminal Code, for example, also regulates the criminal law protection of company secrets. A number of other laws contain individual provisions for the protection of business secrets, professional secrets or business secrets, or provisions on the right of information concerning the business and professional activities of the authorities. So we've never been in a completely unprotected state before. However, current regulation in Finland is highly fragmented in terms of structure and concepts. The proposal is, of course, now based on the EU and the EU's Business Secrets Directive. The aim of this proposal is therefore to harmonise the level of protection in all Member States. The need for the reform of business secrecy legislation is therefore due both to the implementation of EU legislation and to the shortcomings of national legislation. I believe that this proposal is necessary and even necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u115	Madam President! Consultations in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy highlighted the lack of regulation of the conditions of professional secrecy and competition for workers, and solutions to this need to be sought. The amendments proposed in this recent protest would have given workers certainty as to their rights and obligations. Unfortunately, it now seems that the majority of the committee in this matter went behind the back of the Court of Justice to wait for workers to claim their rights through it. It was a pity that the committee as a whole was not put behind this change, but we must live with it now. However, the proposal would not have changed this practice in practice, but would have provided the long-needed legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u116	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u117	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the Automotive Tax Act and the Motor Vehicle Tax Act. EU legislation provides for a new measurement method for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles to better assess vehicle fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. As a result of the presentation, the individual consumer's vehicle or vehicle tax may increase or decrease compared to the current one, as the new WLTP measurement method takes more into account specific vehicle CO2 emissions. The changes may therefore vary between different car brands and even between vehicle models and individuals with the same car mark. This seems a bit strange, but the world is amazing and especially the car world when you get a little familiar with it. The car industry believes that the new car tax scale will increase the tax burden on medium and high-emission cars. The impact can be as high as EUR 130 million compared to the current and up to EUR 70 million compared to the new level of taxation. Their view is based on the measurement results that the car industry has received over the last few months from car manufacturers. The material consists of this year's type-approvals and a collection which therefore represents this and next year's collections. The latest sample consists of just over 700 car models and model variations. I think the sample is quite comprehensive. The Ministry of Finance has reservations about their report and considers the sample to be too small in terms of volume and coverage to draw reliable conclusions. I don't know how much more than 700 car models and variations they should have had. According to the Ministry's assessment, the amendments to the car sector would amount to a tax reduction of approximately EUR 30 million at the top of the tax table. They thus favour high-emission cars contrary to the basic idea of the current eco-controlled tax model. However, the committee considered the objective of taxation to be a decisive criterion. Where the basis for the amount of the tax is concerned, acceptable changes must be based on sufficiently representative information. As such, the committee only sees the results of the JRC study carried out by the Commission's research service. The results are based on a pan-European fleet of cars and a systematic research plan. They also guarantee the legal protection of taxable persons, as required by the Constitution, from the information available as they stand. Whoever wants to believe what research results, however, is certain that you will continue to meet only my friends with high-emission, old and fuel-intensive vehicles. Fortunately, no EU directive has yet forced such historic vehicles to be scrapped and no one has to be guilty of hiding old vehicles. On the other hand, even the historical arms stash has later been regarded as a rather patriotic measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u118	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u119	Madam President! The Government proposal proposes to provide for a law on security measures in the Finnish Immigration Service. Society's job is to protect our security. Every one of us has a right to security. This is defined in our Constitution. The Finnish Immigration Service also plays an increasingly important role in the safe working environment and in preparing for various security threats. The purpose of this bill is to protect people working at the Finnish Immigration Service from various hazards, to safeguard working conditions and to protect the property of the Agency. In the future, the law would lay down the powers of security inspectors working in the premises available to the Finnish Immigration Service. The powers relate to identity checks, security checks, person checks, the taking over of objects, the blocking of access, the removal of a person and the arrest of a person. I welcome the fact that security controls can be acquired as a purchasing service and that the security inspector must be a person approved by the police for this task. This is the only way to guarantee adequate staff if necessary. I consider the proposal as a whole to be both good and necessary and indeed necessary to protect the staff of the Finnish Immigration Service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u120	Mr President! I would like to thank the Government and the Administrative Committee for their very swift action, that this law on improving the security of the Finnish Immigration Service has been brought to the attention of Parliament and that it will now be brought into force quickly without change. As the Committee on Administration also points out, this proposal takes account of the fact that the conditions for maintaining safety have changed, and without any greater gestures, immediate action has been taken to improve the situation, to improve safety. It is very important, as Mr Kulmala has just said, that the safety of people working in the Finnish Immigration Service can be safeguarded, as can the safety of customers who visit it. This legislation is now taking the necessary steps to improve safety in this changed security situation. Here are some good measures. It is good to move on this path.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u121	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u122	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Road Act and some other laws in the transport sector. The proposal sets out the tasks related to road maintenance and transport system planning and the implementation of mission transfers for the regions to be set up. In future, the regions would be responsible for the functioning of the transport system, traffic safety, road and transport conditions, regional road management, land-use cooperation and the production of information on the operating environment for national transport system planning. It can already be said that there is a lot of work to be done and hopefully the management will be as close as possible to the person who needs the services. The length of the entire road network in Finland is about 454,000 kilometres. According to the customer satisfaction survey, users of the road network are mainly satisfied with the functionality of journeys and transport on the road network. However, the deteriorating condition of the road network and the low level of funding are reflected in customer satisfaction as a declining trend in road condition and especially in winter care. At the beginning of 2017, the correction debt of the Finnish transport network was estimated to be around EUR 2.54 billion, although the government has made a strong effort to reduce it during this period. The increase in the debt to repair and the deterioration in the condition of the transport network has resulted in a long-standing low level of appropriations. Of the current repair debt, approximately EUR 1.3 billion is spent on roads, approximately EUR 1.1 billion on railways and about EUR 40 million on waterways. One issue that often arises in the discussions is the quality control of road maintenance and, in general, the adequacy of funding for basic infrastructure management. I believe that this debate will never end, and that is not what should happen. Only through discussion will we be able to stay on the edge of time in an ever-changing society. Roads and streets are demanding and require the right equipment and employees. According to statistics, last year the condition of the canals remained unchanged, but the condition of the regional and interconnectors deteriorated. The increase in the debt to repair has stopped, but only for a moment. The government’s aim has been to improve and improve road management and save public spending, but the consequences of savings in particular will be seen now at the latest. It is easy to forget that poor road condition is not necessarily the cause of maintenance work, but may also be the cause of the equipment. Pressure must also be placed on the tendering of maintenance contracts and on the quality of the work required and the quality of the work to be accepted. Allowing the road to decay is very shortsighted, especially when it is at the expense of road safety. It cannot be right that while children are skating and playing hockey on the public road, alarm vehicles and school taxis are trying to stay on the road because it is not sanded and the edges of the road are soft. Especially when there's an emergency vehicle waiting for someone in distress. Many times an emergency vehicle or a school taxi makes the first marks on the snowy road in the region or connection in the morning. In Finland, it was a matter of honour that the roads of the locality in particular were in the best possible condition. Now, in the course of tendering, contracting and sub-contracting, liability issues have become blurred. It would appear that the longer the chain of maintenance work, the more companies and entrepreneurs take their own slice of the price, and this is not in the interest of the ordinary road user. One important point is the equipment for road repair. At the time of the roadmaster districts, the gravel roads were shaped with a road bear in the spring so that the water does not stand on the road and the roadsides do not grow grass and grass. In the autumn, the road was run flat to facilitate plowing and in the winter the polanda were removed. If necessary, the roads were later loaded with a tractor or lower edge of the truck. At the moment, these road bears are no longer very much used and there are also no trained drivers for their use. However, the road bear is the only way to remove the road pedals and make the road tilts with one drive. In future, the provinces must ensure that the right equipment for road maintenance is used and used as necessary. Road maintenance must also be timely. I myself have often wondered whether the road management classifications and departure thresholds were too strict to do. There is also very much evidence of this in many areas. In any case, the provinces will continue to have their hands full if they intend to keep roads, especially those in sparsely populated areas, safe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u123	Madam President! This is, of course, one of the laws that now relate to this regional reform. It also includes these accompanying laws, where the transfer of powers takes place both as regards road maintenance and the planning of transport systems, as well as the organisation of public passenger transport. In fact, it would be interesting if the people in this committee were here to ask that now that this timetable seems so uncertain, what does it mean, for example, with regard to this legislation? I am sure that the start will be postponed, but are there any other consequences? Another issue that I was wondering about is that in the provinces, however, the funding for road maintenance is apparently to be managed by means of separate funding. Has there been a debate on the possible level of this in the future? Mr Kulmala did well to raise these problems of modern road maintenance in the provinces. However, I have just heard the words that the only extinct animal that would be needed there on the road is a road bear that is no longer being used today and that would be extremely necessary on those polarised rural roads. In his speech, the representative also referred to these contracts, which are being concluded today. There is a problem here that the main contractors enter into the main contracts and then put the subcontractors in competition for the subcontractors. This has led to the fact that, in fact, profit is made by how little and poor the road sections are managed, because then, of course, the person who sells the subcontract is the one who is most covered. After all, this is a construction model on its very head, and I recall that Minister Berner took a stand on this issue and sometimes last winter said that this matter should now be examined through the various criteria of these main contractors. It cannot be that, in fact, the purchasing mechanism or the logic behind these contracts is that you make the most money when roads are handled as badly as possible. I have to say, when you come from North Savo, where there are indeed good winters, but you are currently very varied, that there are a lot of close-to-miss situations and, in particular, driving agricultural vehicles, such as dairy cars, you often have a lot of lotteries there. Indeed, as Mr Kulmala said, there are, for example, school taxis,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u124	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u125	Mr President! Now we actually get to my kind of bread, the Road Traffic Act. — — — — The Government's proposal proposes a new road traffic law. The main objective of the reform was to improve road safety. This should at least be the case, that is the starting point. The proposed law implements the Government's decision in principle on road safety. At the same time, a number of related laws would be amended. I must honestly say that I expected much more from this performance. Road transport has been subject to a large number of regulations, regulations and decisions, and I can tell you that even a dedicated traffic controller does not fully control them all. Fortunately, there are still books, Internet and files where things can be checked. Road transport is much more than just speed limits and compliance with them. I welcome the fact that the regulation on the use of reflectors and bicycle helmets remains a clear signal in the Road Traffic Act as to the necessity and importance of their use. However, if non-use is not sanctioned, this is just an empty recommendation, which is, in a way, a dead entry. I've been to a lot of fatal accidents where a pedestrian or a cyclist was hit by a car and probably would have survived if they had used a reflector or a protective helmet. A winter ring order is also a rather unusual provision. In other words, according to the reasons for the proposal, the winter tyre regulations would be revised to reflect the changing weather conditions in Finland. Winter tyres should therefore be used in vehicles, if the weather or weather so requires, during November, December, January, February and March. In this respect, I do not believe in human goodness, or I do not support this change. According to the presentation, the colour of the line between directions is changed from yellow to white. I do not think this proposal is appropriate either. This amendment has been justified in committee, among other things, by the fact that white colour is also used in most other countries on the exclusion line. However, in many other countries there is not as long winter time as in Finland, where snow makes road markings difficult to see. The yellow color is definitely more visible from the snow than from the white. I am not in favour of this change either. A little attention should also be given to the impact of automatic traffic control equipment on traffic flow. According to a report also submitted to the committee, a significant proportion of drivers tend to calculate vehicle speed for automatic cameras unnecessarily low, which clearly hampers traffic flow and may also pose safety risks. According to the survey, it is often the case that drivers are not sure of the allowed speed limit and therefore slow down in the control area to a very low speed. The committee therefore draws attention to the same issue which I have taken up in 2016 with the initiative 32. The committee stresses that there should be a speed limit mark either in connection with each automatic camera or in its immediate vicinity. In my opinion, automatic traffic control cameras and poles should also be painted colorfully. It is also a question of prevention and improvement of road safety in the area of automatic traffic control, and not just of money for road users. When I looked at the traffic signs, I noticed that there was no single point-by-point traffic sign, which is used in Sweden, for example. Are we worse than the Swedes? I don't think so. At least I don't want to be. According to the proposal, a traffic error charge may also be imposed as a consequence of a traffic offence involving a motorised vehicle which has been detected under automatic traffic control or otherwise without stopping the vehicle, such as the non-use of a personal safety device, i.e., the non-use of a safety belt in Finnish. I consider this proof to be extremely challenging, but good luck only to the supervisors. I myself have had a few times in court to witness the inactivity of the seat belt, and that is quite challenging. Mr President! There are still so many shortcomings in this government proposal that it is difficult for a road safety-oriented person to accept this as such.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u126	Mr President! This proposal for a road law is a large and important package, but I will only raise one point on this large package, an issue which had also been taken up, and the problem raised in the initiative has been answered in this context. This concerns the problem of parking for home-imported services. I, too, have received several feedback that an increasing proportion of the working time of people taking home services is spent parking a car that is essential for moving at work, finding a free parking space or moving between a remote parking space and a customer's apartment. The initiative had highlighted this problem, particularly from the urban point of view. In cities, of course, this is the biggest problem, but with the current building, street, parking dimensions these problems are increasingly present not only in urban areas but also in rural areas. Although the initiative is not being presented for adoption in this context, it is good that the committee formulated draft opinion No 2. In the statement ‘the Council of State shall prepare a common solution with the municipalities and other actors torepatriate the parking of workers from home care and similar homes, and shall prepare the necessary regulatory changes.’ Let us hope that this work is progressing very quickly and that a good solution can be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u127	Madam President! I would like to raise just the same issue as Mr Viljanen in the previous speech, namely the problems of people providing home care and similar services, especially in urban areas, to get their cars parked. In that sense, it is good that, although this initiative has not been adopted by you, a position is taken at the level of the statement. Let us hope that the necessary regulatory changes will also be made here, because it is indeed unreasonable, when we know today what rhythm these people who provide home care services are going to go from place to place, if a large part of that time still has to be spent on finding a parking spot or not, and then, in the worst case, when they come from the customer, there may be a parking fee waiting in the window. Here was also a good listener. Kulmala’s expert speech on the amendments to the Road Traffic Act and, on the other hand, on the issues that remain in that legislation, and he very expertly estimates that although the legislation itself certainly has the right things, there are also certain disappointments, according to his assessment. I did draw attention to this same point that he mentioned, namely, changing the white color from the yellow colour, that these natural conditions should also be taken into account. In that sense, we should not just start thinking about how we are now driving there in Central Europe — in very different circumstances — and, accordingly, changing these colours of attention. On the other hand, I also drew attention to the fact that even if the wearing of a helmet is not punishable, it is still considered a recommendation there, and the use of a reflector is still there. These are indeed important things, and especially for children and young people, it is good to get used to these things from an early age and to learn them. Then they will certainly remain in the characteristics of the road user then even at later age.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u128	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u129	Mr President! The system of loan grain and seed funds in our country dates back to the Swedish regime. When measures were needed to restore crops and at the same time equip them for possible roofing years, the setting-up of the canteens from which, in the event of roofs, grain would be lent for seed and eaten was considered a suitable way. Activities have been regulated by regulations in 1810, 1857 and 1864, and the law dates back to 1934. According to the Loan Grains and Seeds Fund Act, the purpose of the loan is to obtain, maintain and charge seed or edible cereals or both. The seed fund, for its part, is primarily intended to provide financial resources for the purchase of seed in the event of a loss. I don't think there was a term for security of supply in the 19th century. In the case of the use of the loan grain, it seems that there was a direct talk of survival. The risk of weather fluctuations, among other things, was much higher for farmers and society as a whole. Mr President! Time has driven past the loan piles, but not past their mission. We still have a duty to ensure the conditions for food production, the security of supply in Finland and that there is enough food for everyone. But the means of securing it have changed so much that even the last batch of loans can now be abandoned. But I would like to continue to stress that there is still no compromise on security of supply and security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u130	Madam President! You can see here that legislation is indeed quite old-fashioned when it comes to municipalities and mantats. Indeed, as stated in the previous speeches, it is true that this legislation no longer serves the purpose of the law in question, and in that sense, as is well stated in the introduction, this is unnecessary regulation, and it is certainly appropriate to abolish it. But that does not remove the fact that Mrs Viljanen said that security of supply is, today, one of the most important issues for the security of the nation. In that sense, it is important that we consider in this Chamber how we can improve the conditions for Finnish agriculture and in this current common EU agricultural policy to defend the fact that we can continue to produce food throughout Europe and also to ensure that the farmer has a fair share in the food chain. In that sense, it could be said that today this type of legislation has replaced, as it were, support for farmers and the whole food chain through various legislations, so that we can ensure that the security of supply for Finns is also maintained in relation to food production.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u131	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u132	Madam President! It is a very important issue in this legislation that this can also provide school travel support to people whose compulsory education age has already been exceeded and yet it is very important for them to have a final certificate of basic education and then to move on to further studies and to the Finnish labour market. In that sense, although this group, to which this support will be allocated, is very small, it could be said that this is an extremely important signal for preventing the development of exclusion and also for catching up with society. In that sense, this is indeed to be welcomed and supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u133	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-26-ps-74.u134	Madam President! The government proposal proposes to amend, among other things, the Chemicals Act. The proposal takes particular account of mercury, which is found in large quantities of fish in some waters. As a general rule, the older the fish, the more it has been able to collect contaminants, including mercury. In pollution, substances harmful to the environment are exposed by humans to air, soil or water. The Baltic Sea remains one of the most polluted seas in the world. Even under the Baltic Sea Convention, mercury must not be released into the environment. According to one study, all the blood samples from the grey gulls of the southern Baltic Sea were found to contain mercury, which appears to be the most transmitted to the bird’s respiratory system during the breeding season. I wonder where that mercury came from. According to the latest information, mercury is also increasing in the Baltic Sea. Where do you think it's coming from? In many teeth, too, mercury is still present as amalgam places. Fortunately, teeth are no longer fixed with a previously proven harmless patch. However, with the proposal, the monitoring of the use of dental amalgam would be a new task for Valvira and the Regional State Administrative Agencies. This proposal proposes that the Safety and Chemicals Agency Tukes, from the supervisory authorities in accordance with the Chemicals Act, should act as monitoring authorities for the production and placing on the market of mercury-containing products, as well as the business, transport and environment centre and the municipal environmental protection authority for the purposes of monitoring compliance with the requirements for the use and storage of mercury. I think this is a good proposal, especially when Customs would monitor compliance with the ban on the import and export of mercury and certain mercury-containing compounds and mixtures under the Chemicals Act.
