ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 1.5 hours will be reserved for the referral debate. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 4. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u2	Mr President! I present the second amending budget for 18 to the House. We have prepared this amending budget in a strong economic upturn, in strong prospects. We are currently at a peak in the economy, and the finest and most gratifying thing is that the employment rate has reached almost 72%. Since economic growth is strong and employment has improved in an excellent way, our tax revenues are also increasing. The revenue estimates can therefore be increased by EUR 0.5 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u9	This speech by the Minister for Finance may give rise to a few debatable remarks. I would ask those of you who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u10	Mr President! This proposal for an additional budget does not alter the overall picture of the economy at all. The government has enjoyed the peak of the economic cycle, as the Minister has said here, but we still have a budget deficit of EUR 1.2 billion — yet we continue to live in debt. And what seems special now is that, in the light of these figures, the government is proposing a higher level of debt next year than is going to happen this year. In the SDP's alternative budget, this deficit is decreasing, the SDP, as in every year, takes less debt than this government at the peak of the economic cycle.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u13	Mr President! It is precisely because of the general image of the economy, as Mr Harakka said, that we now have the opportunity to invest in those very important, long-awaited things. And this is because unemployment and income support, for example, will have to be used less money and, as a result, tax revenue has increased and we can now invest more in road safety, in the management of the debt to repair and in such matters as these, which are very important for the citizens. It must therefore be borne in mind that the many detestable decisions that had to be taken at the beginning of the parliamentary term now begin to bear fruit and results when the economy is in order and this general economic policy yield can be distributed through such targeted projects, which will then continue to drive the economy forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u14	Mr President! When we look at this response from Finland to the climate crisis, it would be very appropriate for this amending budget to take these recommendations from the International Climate Panel even more seriously and Finland's reaction to them. It is good that the focus of development cooperation is being shifted to the climate and the environment, but when you look at what has happened in the government so far — very large cuts also in the area of development cooperation — it seems that we are still not responding to this climate crisis in the way that we should respond to it as Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u15	Mr President! It's a big picture we're talking about here, but as they say, the devil lives in details. Mr Orpo, you said that the unexpected costs of immigration have made it easier, but yet here in the amending budget, for example, you are proposing 6 million for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers — perhaps this is not quite in line with what you have just said. Then I would also have asked what this centre of excellence contains, this centre of expertise for immigrants — a very vague text. Is this some kind of new money-whipping place? Is there anything concrete to be expected from there? In addition, I would have asked about this climate and environmental policy to the extent that development aid is a prerequisite for setting clear indicators, for example, for curbing population development. It is one of the major threats to sustainable development. In Africa and India, for example, the population is growing exponentially. Why not?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u16	Mr President! There's been a big, big turn in the economy. The economy is growing at a record rate, employment is improving and unemployment is decreasing at the same time. Minister of Finance, economic policy under your leadership seems to be working.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u19	Mr President! This is, of course, gratifying that the people of the United States are defending their own minister, that is right. I can only say that, Mr Lindström, although you are not here, your employment policy works: 115,000 more jobs. Over the last two years, the number of long-term unemployed has decreased by 50,000. And the finest thing — I say this as a member of the younger age group — is that youth unemployment has also decreased by 5 percentage points. So we're going in the right direction. And this $40 million for conversion training is also an excellent addition in this respect. If I also think of my home city, Espoo, which is a very technology-driven city, and there are a lot of companies, this training of coders, between 1600 and 2,400 people, is also very important for these companies. On the other hand, the question arises that if we are at the peak of the economic cycle, what is the situation during the next government? I could bet it wasn't much better financially, at least. In other words, difficult economic times continue in the sense that government finances must be taken care of very carefully in order to take care of those who cannot manage themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u20	Mr President! The Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Finland and many others predict that we are at a peak in the economic cycle at the moment and that the situation will look worse in the future. It would therefore be important to invest in the future, to dare to invest in the future in education, employment, social security structures. In my view, it would now be important to invest in education in a completely new way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u23	Värderade Talman! Det kunns bra att sysselsättningssiffran ser bättre ut, och det finns mycket man ännu kan göra, bland you give bör behovsprövningen för utländsk arbetskraft tas bort.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u24	Mr. Speaker! Economic growth is already positive in the actual budget. From the point of view of the Section for Employment and the Economy, it was very pleasant to see growth results in tourism, how Business Finland was strengthened, how Terrafame went positively and so on. Now, I would like to thank Minister Orpo very much for the fact that we have 270,000 unemployed and over 100,000 job vacancies, that you have still paid attention to the importance of education. It is necessary to find a connection to this equation so that these numbers would approach one another. That's the right line that's on the move.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u25	Mr President, värderade talman! Så rai på Svenska dagen vill jag ännu undertryka att det är valdigt glädjande att regeringen har noterat Kvarken-förbindelserna och också beviljat budgetpensgar 10 million euro. Det är valdigt viktigt för att vi ska uppehålla trafiken till vårt västra grannland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u26	Mr President! Finland is now living at the peak of the economic cycle. Fortunately, unemployment has fallen and, as a result, unemployment security expenditure has also fallen. That is very good, but there is still a situation where basic security benefits are being cut, index cuts have not been cancelled for this year or next year either. The question is: if there is no money for those living on basic security in a downturn and there is no money in a boom, then when does the government think it is the turn of the poorest? Mr President! The increase in the price of allowances has resulted in an increase of EUR 72 million in emissions auction revenues. Of course, that is a very good thing from the budgetary point of view, but above all from the point of view of climate action and investment. But even if EUR 72 million comes from additional revenue, only EUR 2 million of these will be allocated to climate finance in developing countries, namely combating climate change and adapting to it in the poorest countries. This is not enough to compensate for the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u27	Mr President! I will take up what Mr Sarkkinen said. Indeed, over 70 million emissions auction revenues have come, so it would be wise to increase development funds, especially climate finance, at this point. That would also be very wise after the alarming IPCC report. You talked a lot about employment policy and how it is difficult for companies to find a skilled workforce. We also have a lot of people who find it very difficult to find their own place: the long-term unemployed, the part-time unemployed, the disabled, whose employment rate is significantly lower than in the rest of the world. A great deal of new solutions, coordination of work and social security and other incentives need to be made for the employment of these people. What have you done, Mr Government and Minister Orpo, to promote the employment of those who are able to work part-time?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u28	At this stage in the debate, I would like to respond to the following representatives: Mr Zyskowicz, Vähämäki, Mr Gustafsson, Mr Anttila. And if the minister wants to use the interim comment, two minutes, then he will be given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u29	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, did you hear what the SDP has to say? Representative Harakka has criticised the fact that fiscal policy is too loose. Mr Rinne then spoke about the need to invest in education, research and he did not mention the price tag, but I understood that he was talking about hundreds of millions. In the past, he has become known for billions of promises. That's what you can do when you're in the opposition. But Mr Heinonen rightly said here earlier, Mr Finance Minister, that the economic policy pursued under your leadership is producing results. Personally, I do not understand when, for example, in this labour market dispute, employees' organisations said that this is the last straw, since this has been the last one. In other words, the competitiveness pact meant improving competitiveness for Finland, thereby creating at least tens of thousands of new jobs. Does this not work for Finnish trade unions?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u31	Honorable Speaker! This additional budget proposal contains good and logical proposals. The debt take-up will be reduced by 485 million and these investments will be made, which can be done now that employment has improved: the problem of matching 20 million for short-term qualifications and 10 million for training in the software sector will continue to be addressed. These are good investments. 4 million for artificial intelligence research, 70 million for bus projects — they go to the 4th, unfortunately there in Jyväskylä to the Kankaanniemi neighbourhood, but hopefully in the future they will also be able to reach the 4th in the Oulu-Kemi area. Agriculture will receive 7.5 million and Metsähallitus' digitalization projects 2.5 million. These are good additions. All this looks good, but I also say that there may be bad times. We should have some kind of operating list in our back pocket. Does it exist, who does it, and at what point?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u32	Mr President! I think Mr Rinne is actually talking about restoring the honour of education and research. Minister Orpo now boasted that an additional EUR 40 million would be put into this knowledge budget. Good for you, but the logic is little now that when you're cut in proportion to 100 million, then 5 to 10 million will be returned. That's just the way it is. A week ago, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, when dealing with next year's budget, was unanimously extremely concerned about the cuts in vocational education and training. Now we are presenting EUR 10 million more for pilots in a situation where part of those who are studying for a job completes a three-day working week, two are time off. So we Social Democrats are demanding that this professional reform be given greater financial attention as well. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities had calculated that over 80 million means
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u33	Mr President! Thank you to the Government and the Minister for investing in the infrastructure now, because we have very great needs in the infrastructure. These really go to the busiest part. But my question is, Minister for Finance: is there any preparation for what we are going to do in the future to catch up with the repair debt and finance the new investments that are necessary for the infrastructure? I am absolutely sure that this is not possible through budgetary funding. Will this government still find ways to do so? With regard to this drought package, you rightly said that there is EUR 7.5 million in it. In this context, I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that the information systems should be put in place quickly so that this money can be returned to farmers. It took a year to recover the fuel tax before the previous refund was received. It's no use, no matter how many millions we have here if we don't get them paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u34	Mr President! First of all, Mr Harakka can immediately be comforted by the fact that the structural deficit is virtually going down to zero. The evaluation council to which you referred is, I think, a year ago. [TimoHarakkacalls for an answer ] The budget is in deficit. The reason why the draft amending budget's debt estimate for this year is lower than for next year is simply because we had a one-off income from this year's Export Credit, which has been paid on a faster schedule. In any case, debt has fallen from around 7 billion to a really fast pace so that next year the budget economy can be balanced and buffered. This is an excellent achievement. And, yes, once again, the positive global economy and the growth of the euro area have been absolutely central, but the euro area and the world economy have already grown during the previous government, and it was not yet possible to catch up. Now, among other things, we have taken measures to improve competitiveness: the Kiki agreement, between 30,000 and 40,000 jobs, according to studies, is beyond doubt. Tax reductions have returned to hardworking nurses and public workers what they have lost here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u40	Mr President! As has been shown, the outlook for economic growth in the coming years, both in Finland and in Europe, will be more subdued than it is now, and we must, of course, be prepared for it. These long-term growth conditions and platforms will be improved by research, product development, knowledge that the investment environment is good. But the extra budget doesn't solve everything. One thing I would like, however, and that is that when we have less than 70,000 young and young adults under the age of 30 who are not working, are not in education and are poorly attached to society, then it would be important to build them a kind of survival program for education, the labour market. If that is not done now and there is an economic downturn, then I am very concerned about how these people are doing under those conditions and the risk of marginalisation is very high. I would like to see this kind of investment in the future for these young adults.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u41	Mr President! On Thursday next week, the government will issue a supplementary budget for next year's budget. I would ask: is there at least some kind of change of direction or correction to the development that we actually have in this research and product development? In the whole of the 21st century, our research and product development efforts have almost been stagnated, as they in the control countries — France, the UK, the OECD, the EU — have risen by 30-50% relative to GDP. At least some kind of gesture, some kind of movement should be mobilised already in this supplementary budget proposal. Then Prime Minister Sipilä has regretted that too much has been done to cut basic security — probably even referring to the historic first cut in national pensions for decades. Does the Minister of Finance agree that a little too hard a ride
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u42	Mr President! There has been a good debate here about the fact that employment has improved, but perhaps it is good to stop for a moment and think about why this is happening. It has already been mentioned here that between 30000 and 40000 are, according to economists, the result of the competitiveness pact. What has not yet been mentioned is that the impact of other legislative changes introduced by the government — e.g. extending the probation period, making the readmission obligation more flexible, restoring the exclusivity of holiday-related illness, et cetera et cetera — is estimated by economists at 33,000 to 42,000 jobs. What is essential is now to realise that each of these reforms has been opposed here by the left-wing opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u47	Mr President! Indeed. The Sipilä government has invested a great deal of money in this government debt, almost a billion dollars, and it is good that this additional budget is now continuing along this line and is indeed investing in winter maintenance. It's been pretty unsafe sometimes to drive around Finland's roads. It's a good thing we're investing in this. I am not at all sorry that shipping in Kvarken is also receiving money. I would say that one of them is missing: it would then also require the improvement of the Thirds. It is quite clear that, one day, when sanctions against Russia are reduced, Sweden and Norway will also become traffic across the Kvarken and up to the Third then all the way to the eastern border, and our freight traffic will also aim for Scandinavia and the Atlantic ports. In this respect, I hope that this financial knot, this Gordion knot, will be opened. I therefore hope that the Ministry of Finance will also take a view on this, that budget money alone will not be enough, but that we will have to find ways of getting these main routes right, to which Mr Anttila also referred.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u48	President! Now that we are obviously living in the midst of a business peak, this philosophy is quite right: now we need patience, now there is no reason to rumble and loosely distribute money there and here. Let us continue to be protected from a government which would have the full capacity of the Red-Green coalition to distribute money recklessly there and here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u51	Reply, Mr Rinne, Chairman of the Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u52	Mr President! I think it is pointless to argue about who has done this now or why this economic growth and the increase in employment. There must be a lot of factors: the previous government, this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u57	I will give the Minister the floor in a moment, but before that I will give the floor, Mr Kari and Mr Arhinmäki. Then there is the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u58	Mr President! During the previous debate, several representatives raised the issue of development cooperation cuts, but the Minister did not have time to comment on them. This in itself is quite understandable because, at the very beginning of its term, the government cut significantly from development cooperation by about EUR 300 million, which fell below 40% of the funding we have paid. At the same time, however, the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris climate agreement would require more funding from us to combat climate change. During the previous government, this innovative financing instrument for development cooperation was created, which has been widely praised internationally, i.e. that emissions auction revenues are used for development funding and international climate action. Now that emissions trading is working better and there is more money coming out of it, what is the reason why we are not aiming for this 0.7% target and directing this money towards development cooperation and climate change?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u59	Mr President! The big picture of the economy is that the economic situation and employment have improved. Mr Heinonen and Mr Zyskowicz here were able to praise the Minister for Finance for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u62	To this, Mr Reijonen, and then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u63	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä's government has been an excellent success in its employment and economic policy. This growth in employment has brought room for manoeuvre, and that is certainly a good thing. We've been talking about training. We all know at the moment that there is a very large shortage of skilled labour in certain sectors of the economy, and the government has taken this up. This amending budget is investing additional resources in education and training, and that is an excellent thing for me overall. This vocational education and training plays a central role, that is to say, the second stage, where results must now be achieved, and the government has seized on this. Another very important point is that when last winter was quite challenging with regard to the winter maintenance of the roads, now there is money there, and also the fact that there has been little opening up to this whole is an excellent thing. This should be given special thanks to the Sipilä Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u64	And Minister — if available for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u65	President! There were a lot of good questions. Let's have a few. So we, the government and I as its Minister of Finance, are following the Government Programme of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä and the economic policy programme behind it. No other performances have been made. No other proposals have been made, and we will follow this. This line of economic policy and employment policy, which has produced almost 120,000 new jobs in this country, is a balanced public finances policy that will provide the basis for taking care of the well-being of Finns in the coming years — even those who do not find employment that cannot manage themselves. They can be taken care of once the public finances are balanced. Well, that's the best thing for the future to do, that we've been able to do this. For example, this index issue can be assessed in a different way. As far as education is concerned, a piece of it is drawn up and invested where the main points are. Costs of migration
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u68	In 15 minutes, maybe a little more minutes for the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u69	Mr President! That's the Prime Minister. The speeches at the turn of the week by Sipilä were therefore unwarranted electoral speeches when the Minister of Finance denounces the fact that, in this situation, indexation of the most vulnerable benefits could now be carried out. We have that bill from you, the government proposal — withdraw it or instruct your own groups to reject it and allow index increases to come to those who really need it. It is clear that the situation of less than four years ago has moved forward and even to a good situation. There are a lot of reasons for that. There's no point trying to dig it. But now is the chance to share this pot a little more fairly, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u71	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz wondered how it would be possible to make a sensible economic policy while at the same time investing in education and knowledge. This is possible when making the right choices and not selective cyclical policies. Now the government’s line was that when it was a bad time, it was time to cut off the low incomes, but it was just the right time to make tax cuts for the well-earned. And now that the economy is growing, however, it is not the right time to invest in low incomes, but it is also not right to address these tax benefits that you have made. [Left: It’s right there!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u72	Mr Zyskowicz's name was so loudly mentioned that Mr Zyskowicz, the reply to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u73	Thank you, Mr President! I personally believe that this concern, which Mr Rinne and Mr Gustafsson, for example, carried out on the needs of education and research, is justifiable. We need more stakes, and there's too much cut. [Left: Too much? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u74	I would like to say here, ladies and gentlemen, that I do not wish to give the same parliamentary group the backing of two replies, although, in the recent situation, a second speaker was asked to speak to the same group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u75	Mr President! It is a bit amazing to have to teach such basics to people as experienced as you have here in the hall. But permanent expenditure and investment are two completely different things. The idea and reason for the investment is that it will bring back itself and more in a calculated period of time. Investment in education, learning, investment in the future will only be made because in the 2020s they will bring us economic growth and employment above this 72%, when we all believe that 75% is the next target. In addition, Mr Orpo's correction that, although the committee's unfinished business is not being dealt with here, this assessment of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council was less than a month old. And it was still underlined so that the evaluation council really wanted to make it clear that fiscal consolidation
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u76	Mr President! Excellent that Under the leadership of Sipilä, the government has achieved good, excellent results, and the finance minister, Orpo, has also done well. There are excellent things here, such as this sum of 35 million for SMEs. This has a leverage effect, so it will provide us with some 350 million additional funding for the SME sector. When we include this agreement between Tes and the EIB, we will be in a package of nearly 500 million, which will enable us to finance growth-oriented SMEs at the moment. This is an excellent stimulant. If we add to this the funding for employment and then the funding for education and training, then we will also have a workforce in this sector. As far as the year of recovery is concerned, this winter maintenance is an excellent thing, and it is also hoped, as Mrs Alatalo has mentioned here, that funding will still be available for the three-track, but also for the third rail line, which is the road and rail links of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u77	Mr President! I am sure that this debate will not benefit the listeners in the sense that no one will be able to find out now whether, for example, pensioners and low-income earners will receive anything more next year — and the answer is no.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u80	Mr President! This amending budget of the Board of Directors of Juha Sipilä strongly supports employment, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which have recently significantly employed. Nevertheless, we have to admit that we have a shortage of skilled labour. There are many such areas in those provinces where it is really difficult to get people with metal training to work, for example. Moreover, the positive aspect of this amending budget is that attention is paid to winter maintenance, and it is a preparation for the winter to come. For the constituency of Vaasa, it is very important that this Vaasa-Uumaja project is moving forward, and hopefully we can get the domestic manufacturer to do it. Despite the fact that there is one vessel involved, it will then be reflected in the subcontracting network. And, of course, as far as agriculture is concerned, it is positive that the difficulties caused by drought are alleviated. Of course, it's a very small amount, which means it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u81	Mr President! In view of the situation at the beginning of this parliamentary term, high unemployment and government debt challenged
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u84	Mr President! After all, the picture is that the government has now reached its tail at the peak of the economic cycle. Now we have managed to catch up to it because the signs show that economic growth will fade in the future. And what has the government done? The government has made a policy in which the money has always been exhausted when it comes to the position of a low-income person and, at the same time, the state treasury has been emptied with generous tax cuts for the most fortunate. The taxation of millions of inheritances has been reduced and all this has been done. Apparently, President, there is now a period of weekends and weeks of knocking consciences, because the Prime Minister Sipilä has already admitted that growth has not been shared by everyone and that the government may have cut too much. The congressman who appeared here just said that he would have cut less of education and admitted that the government has cut too much of education. But I wonder, Minister Orpo, when you also pointed out that perhaps in the future some indices or others could be changed,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u88	Mr President! The Social Democratic Party commits itself to this parliamentary preparation, on the basis of a working group, in which it was agreed that EUR 300 million per year would be added to basic infrastructure management. Unfortunately, now Minister Orpo has failed to do so. It's missing 300 million euros. We are prepared to take it forward as agreed, but Minister Orpo has failed to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u89	Mr President! I want to be specific. With regard to my addition to that parliamentary transport task force, one last word was added above EUR 300 million: ‘at least’. It is true that the government is not presenting it in this new budget for next year, i.e. in the actual budget,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u90	Mr President! The debate took a rather special direction, because instead of discussing what we can do now, what this government is doing, what this Parliament is doing, we start giving tasks to the next Parliament. [ Hulls on the right] I say that the first thing we could do now is that index freezes are not automatic, but separate legislation to do them. If that legislation is withdrawn, then the indices will come and, for example, the answer to what Prime Minister Sipilä said this weekend in the Monthly Supplement: “Governmental surgery may be too much. “ That would be the first answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u91	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki rightly led the speech to what is now being done. This issue, which I believe is now on the table, includes an increase of 16 million in basic bus maintenance. Money will be allocated to weak bridges. They are very important for the transport of the forest industry and also for the transport of agricultural goods. This has been taken into account, as has been discussed in this Chamber, that the deficit there is, of course, compared to this year, when this budget is 1.4 billion, historically high, and that is precisely because of this debt correction programme. Prior to this, the government put 30 million into the budget debate and a significant amount of funding will be allocated to winter maintenance. We have heard the problems that exist in the provinces and what is happening on the road. These are still not enough, and it is really a matter for the next government to continue the debt correction programme. How big it will be, then we will see in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u92	Mr President! I would have liked the government, when making this amending budget, to have genuinely heard about vocational education and training throughout the autumn about the chaos of many educational institutions at the moment. Last week, the results of the survey of adult teachers showed that half of teachers were concerned about their own survival. More than 40 percent felt that not even the necessary jobs were done in working hours, and nearly 40 percent felt that as a teacher they could no longer do their work properly. Who, besides the teachers, suffers? Well, students and the working life of the future. This amending budget would have been a good opportunity to alleviate the plight of vocational institutions here and now. Despite small increases in appropriations, the plight of teachers and students is continuing, and this is a bad future policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the following four speakers have been asked to speak: Mr Hoskonen, Mr Kurvinen, Mr Räsänen and Mr Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u94	Mr President! Indeed, this parliamentary and government programme has worked. The economy is growing well, unemployment is falling and, above all, Finland is getting into the growth path for which it was long overdue. But the big thing that has not been said in this debate is that there is currently growth elsewhere than in growth centres. In Kainuu, Lapland, Satakunta, many other regions are currently experiencing a very good buzz, a clear shortage of labour, investment is starting to take place, and in this context I wonder what the opposition is saying, even if this does not seem to be enough for them. It seems amazing that once growth has finally been achieved, it will not be avoided either. Well, that's probably the opposition's problem. The president, Antti Rinne, made a strong statement last week that Finland's forests should not be cut. It is said that 72 million mots will suffice, even though we have an annual growth close to 110 million mots per year and a sustainable felling volume of 85 million at the moment, 95 million in the next decade. That in this way the demo
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u96	Mr President! Now that we are dealing with the amending budget and, as part of it, with this more general economic situation, I do not think it would be a good idea for us to bang a lot of suspenders, that is to say, when we look at the future, this is not exactly a rosy dance. Therefore, we should now focus on the measures that would ensure that this good employment and economic development, which has now been taking place in Finland, will continue in the future. That is why investment in the future, which has also been put forward by the Social Democrats, is at the heart of our efforts to ensure that well-being continues to exist and, as a result, we will be able to develop a range of important services. Mr President! It is always in this debate that this intransigent logic of the government is obscured when, on the other hand, we are calling for this dreadfully tight budget. It is always true when it comes to low incomes, that they can always be taken from them, whatever the economic situation, but at the same time it is always a good time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u97	The reply, Mr Kurvinen, and then Mr Tolppanen, followed by the minister for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u98	Mr. Speaker! A certain amount of special, individual and somewhat general about this absolutely excellent amending budget: First of all, I will go into one detail, which is indeed a very important detail from the point of view of our deputies, from the point of view of the constituency of Vaasa, but I believe that it will also serve the whole of Finland. So very warm thanks to Juha Sipilä's Government for this EUR 20 million for developing Kvarken transport: 10 million will be supported, and 10 million will be given the new hybrid ship that hopefully uses as much clean, renewable energy as possible — a modern climate-friendly and environmentally friendly ship. This Mid-Northerly connection from the Atlantic coast to St. Petersburg to deep Russia and The Silk Road all the way to China is very important for Finland's future and must continue to be promoted in many ways. Mr President! We need other such investments in transport policy, precisely the type of Kvarken ship that will bring us growth and development. We will not make the economy rise and the employment rate between 75% and 80% if we do not invest in infrastructure
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u99	Mr President! What has been said here in this part-session about the Kiky agreement is only partly true, so they are part of the alternative truth. Although the Kiki agreement may have created jobs, tax revenues in municipalities have still not increased. Tax revenue has decreased in municipalities, and one of the major reasons is the Kiki agreement, which has cut tax revenue in municipalities — in our countries, for example, in Vaasa. Secondly, let us talk about new jobs. Of course, 18 hours of the active model will eliminate unemployment, but will not increase tax revenues, nor will it reduce social spending, housing allowance or discretionary social security. These expenditures have remained just as high. It would also be good to take this into account and acknowledge it. There is talk of skilled labor, and I was really shocked when I heard that, for example, those who are studying as a nearby nurse are no longer taught how to measure blood pressure, those who are studying to cook no longer know how to cook — they have to learn it at the workplace.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u100	And now for the answer, Minister Orpo. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u101	Madam Speaker! Let's start with this traffic money. We really have to look at that whole thing. We still face the challenge of a billion-dollar repair debt, we have important regional development projects across the board, well-founded in themselves, and then we have big strategic national projects, above all these rail links. All of these will swallow a great deal of more than ten billion if all these things are done, and then it is clear that with budget funding we will not be able to do all of them at a rapid pace. We must start, for example, with the decision to continue the correction debt programme. After all, this government has spent much more and more on basic maintenance and deleveraging than the previous government, which means that this repair debt programme is visible. Now we have put 50 million in next year, with an amending budget and an actual budget, which will take care of this early year. After that, it will be a big decision by the next government, because it must be financed by something. This government did it with the government's property income. It is in the decision-making process of the next government's economic policy, but all parties are committed to parliamentary work, and that is where this level, 300 million a year, must be applied for in one way or another, but I do not think that the hands of the next government should be tied.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u106	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u107	Mr President! I'll have to e-mail the minister when he's busy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u110	Madam President! In the run-up to the last elections, an economic policy debate was held in which, as an alternative, the left offered basic security, the livelihood of the least-incomed, and then, on the one hand, a stimulus to create jobs, economic growth and, on the other hand, economic growth. This was seen as irresponsible, especially for the right. Today, both Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Heinonen and many others have praised the Minister of Finance Orpo and the Prime Minister of the Centre, of course. It's about how the economy's been fixed. Well, let's see what's been the main recipe for getting the economy in order — it's been a recovery. This has not been done so much by the Finnish government, but by the European Central Bank, which has pumped hundreds and thousands of billions of dollars into the market, which has brought Europe's economy to growth and thus export-driven Finland's economy, including Finnish industry to growth and hence employment. So we agree with the view of the economy that the economy is currently growing, and the recipe has been created by the European Central Bank. Madam President! When we talk here about the excellent work that the Finance Minister Orpo has done on economic policy, one might wonder that, if he has done such a wonderful job, why, for tomorrow, the next government to come will still be given sovereign debt despite the drastic cuts in the low incomes, and why, in fact, the deficit seems to be increasing in the future, not decreasing. Well, honestly you have to praise the Minister of Finance Orpo for honesty, who said that when you have banged on the net borrowing rate in 2018 to amount to only 1.2 billion instead of 3.1 billion, the Minister of Finance Orpo rightly and honestly pointed out that this EUR 1.3 billion is due to a one-off early repayment of Finnish Export Credit Ltd's loans. This was also reported by the Ministry of Finance. Instead, I wondered that the Prime Minister Sipilä forgot to mention this in all of his exits, where he merely praised the effectiveness of economic policy and how the need for debt is so much lower this year than was estimated. He forgot to mention this one-off thing. This is not the first time that the Prime Minister has done so. This has been done by the Shimpire. In this Chamber, he has also given the same praise for presenting the budgets, and that is when we had to call the State Treasury. We've got a guy who's been called in and asked why this is happening. And in the same way it was a one-off item. So here is the point for the Ministry of Finance to be informed and the Minister of Finance to be informed in relation to the Prime Minister's message. Mr President! At the same time, however, in this economic situation, where it is said to have been necessary and where there has been no alternative to cutting off the lowest incomes, it has been possible to share the tax reductions of almost EUR 2 billion, or EUR 2000 million, which have benefited, above all, from the highest incomes in the euro area. Is this right? Is this fair? No, it's not. And it appears that Prime Minister Sipilä has also been awakened for three and a half years after ruling the country when he finds that the government may have cut too much. The Prime Minister stated that if it had been believed that economic growth would be 3% at the end of the parliamentary term, the cut could have been slightly lower. Now, after three and a half years, we wake up to this problem. But I give a hint to Prime Minister Sipilä: it is easy to lighten these cuts by removing the government from Parliament its bill on index freezes. Indexes come automatically and require a separate decision to cut low incomes, pensioners, the unemployed and others. Or is it, as the Minister of Finance, Orpo, said, that the next government will take care of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u113	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the government has created more than 100,000 jobs, if you compare it with the last term of government when it went through the same number of jobs. The situation was very worrying when this parliamentary term began, and there must have been many who choked their throats. In that sense, it is good that we have moved on. I also commend the fact that bureaucracy has been dismantled and certain completely absurd regulations have been removed, quite simply as an example, even though this obligation for hairdressers to apply for a permit, a fee-free permit, so that as entrepreneurs they can keep their business open on the holidays — as if they could not judge for themselves when they are working. That is where the representative of the centre, Mr Hoskonen, criticised the opposition's proposals and views by saying that nothing is good enough for the opposition and that it is a problem for the opposition. In fact, I would say that it is ultimately the citizens' problem, which we decide here or do not decide. It is not a problem for any lumpy opposition, but for people's affairs we decide here, and we should remember, when we are having a debate here, that people are following these, that we should not have a theatre performance for each other here, but that we should understand that we have to give answers to listeners and citizens. We are here for them, and in that sense all decisions are citizens' problems or pleasures. It was also stated in some speeches that this is just what needs to be done and what needs to be done. It is not, of course, a question of being forced to do this in some way, but of being able to do it differently within the budget and within the budgets and choosing fairly without increasing expenditure, just how the money is distributed or what is being cut off. It's a matter of value choice. It is, of course, quite ridiculous at this stage to start talking about the fact that the next Parliament will fix things, because we are now dealing with the amending budget and we still have the whole budget for next year to deal with. We are in no hurry not to be able to deal with the issues that we want to see changed by a majority here, such as the problems of low incomes in these index freezes. Let me add that the people of Peru were promised separately when it came to the reign, that when the economy was brought into order — we were involved in these many hateful decisions and we took responsibility for it — we would return to them. Not all of it's back, though. For example, this abolition of the pharmaceutical liability of low-income people, EUR 50: we have made this a bill and talked about it and proposed it last autumn, but no response. Housing costs continue to rise, taxation will be tightened, heating fuel taxation will be tightened, which will of course increase housing costs again. It's actually the most interesting thing for people after spending time. It will not be helpful if a small increase in the guarantee pension is provided, for example EUR 9 per month, if housing costs increase by EUR 10. Everyone can calculate that it is minus 1 euro. But of course it is how things are presented. Today I checked with regret that next week, when we are discussing these alternative budgets and we are bringing in our basic Finns' bill on this reform of inheritance tax in order to calm the period of widow’s residence from inheritance tax, specifically in relation to the common home of the spouses — this is something that a true number of MPs from various parties, in my opinion, at least from the Social Democrats, Greens, the Assembly and the Centre, supported — so unfortunately, I did not find the name of a single representative in that bill. It was there for a week, and it was reported. It was said here today that everyone should keep their promises, and now I urge that a lot of people here have not even bothered to sign, even though it concerns a middle-income, ordinary person who has just lost a loved one. But I'm afraid I didn't care now. I would like to say this again when Minister Orpo spoke very briefly about immigration and its costs: These must be brought up in order to make me feel that the Finns are the only party that talks about them. I said that recently, and we have often talked about these, that in a few years, for example, there have been 1.4 billion dollars spent on reception and asylum centres alone, that is, the same amount that we will be borrowing next year, and now there is this increase of 6 million. In order to give people an idea of it, next year the government will be adding a total of 10 million to the guarantee pension, and if you think that this year 6 million more will be thrown into the reception centres, then everyone will be able to count that EUR 9 would have turned on many euros. These are big money, they have to be put into practice by example, and that is why I regret that they are always ignored in such a way that well, the Finns now talk about them, they always have those extreme Finnish ideas. With regard to development aid, I have to say that I am sorry, Minister of Finance, and perhaps many others, when I look forward to a genuine debate about the means. I agree that climate change, pollution, plastic platforms and so on are a major challenge for the future, that will then be if we drown in pollution here, no matter how we share this money here, there is not much to do then. But we still have time. And one important thing is that there are so many people in certain continents that there is no room for more. There is no clean drinking water, the animal species are impoverished. We need different species of animals for biodiversity, so that there is a certain natural cycle. If you miss out on species, that's one part of the problem. Waters are contaminated, there is no more farmland, there is no room for other species of animals. I saw in this set of regulations of the World Natural Foundation that at present, for example, the number of vertebrate wild animals has fallen by an average of 60% in more than 40 years, i.e. 60%, and the number of vertebrates is currently less than ever in human history. It has been said that the sixth extinction is about to begin. We are responsible for this. One important thing is that in certain continents development aid must be required, that they submit a population plan, that it should be reduced. It doesn't help anything, even if we're here to stop by, if there are millions more people in the rest of the world all the time, that's a fact. Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u114	Mr President! I drew attention to the fact that Minister Orpo presented an additional budget, that he was talking about the fact that during this term of government we are now moving forward with his ‘little snaps’:this is also where we come from, for example, small, comfortable buttons for training or other purposes. I am not saying that they are necessary, they are more than necessary, but perhaps this represents the rather horrendous big picture that this government has had in its politics, that first, for example, we take a really big bucket of education and then we come back a little bit at a time and we imagine that this is what is doing a great deal of good. What happened? Three and a half years have passed and, Mr President, I have not seen from the government the major structural reforms which Mr Orpo has just called very much for in the future. Well, what's going on during this reign? There's been three and a half years. I have not seen them, Mr President. The only thing we are trying hard to do is to make sure that we know at the moment what the unfortunate situation is all about. The fact is, too, that I am sure that thanks to the fact that the world's winds have already blown in such a good direction, we have finally reached a peak here in Finland. But what has always been our concern is the value choices that are now being made. When the economy has been growing, that growth has not really belonged to everyone. The fact is that, for example, every autumn the government has operated on pensioners, index cuts have been made, and that is the onion. This is how it has been done, and it is very, very, very bad. Basic security has been cut during a central government, and it is quite extraordinary overall. There's plenty of money. The cashier's been emptied. It has been emptied into quite rewarding tax cuts for the most fortunate. At this stage, for example, the social democrat option would impose less tax on low- and medium-income wage earners and pensioners than the government would levy, but in the interests of fairness and fairness, we would take a little more from those slightly larger owners. But all in all, what worries me quite a bit here is that the more you listen to the reviews from different research institutes, the more it seems that the winds of the global economy are beginning to wane, and it may be that economic growth will fade before long. Now that we have been at a peak in the economic cycle, growth has not been for everyone, and then we may be in a rather difficult economic situation again in a few years' time. I think that Mr Harakka has already described quite well that it is quite irresponsible in this respect, that debt will continue and that the government will take on more debt next year than this year. Somehow it feels like we're going to get rid of this to the next government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u119	Congressman Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u120	Thank you, Madam President. When this government began, we must honestly recognize where we were — the beginning of all wisdom is the recognition of the facts. When this government started, the financial position of central government and municipalities, i.e. public finances, had deteriorated during the previous four-year period by EUR 38.5 billion. Direct quote from the Government report: EUR 38.5 billion. We had over 100,000 more unemployed, two of the three big ratings had already given us a red card, and if the third had come, the interest would have jumped up immediately. Is that what the opposition wants us to continue to maintain the bankruptcy regime? We can monitor this development now, Mr President, in Italy. Is that the way we want to go? I don't think anyone in this house really wants to. Representative A few minutes ago, a reference to that, but I wonder that he, as an experienced parliamentarian, does not have a great deal of control over the figures. I mean, I think he's in control, but for some reason he doesn't want to say them out. Now 115,000 people have been employed. It has meant something positive for some 500,000 to 600,000 people's homes, at least EUR 1000 more spending per month, which is a huge step forward. And now that we have managed to mobilise production in this country, competitiveness has improved, it is absolutely necessary for us, Mr President, to ensure that our competitiveness is maintained. No Finnish product will enter the world market, the ships will not leave the port unless the quality of the product is good and the competitiveness in terms of price is better than in our competitor countries. Sweden, among other things, is our biggest competitor in the forestry industry and is certainly able to make quality and good quantity. So these things have been sorted out for a while. Above all, Mr President, growth is concentrated not only here but here in the south. For us, the hardest growing region is Kainuu, Lapland, Satakunta and so on, to name the three provinces. There is a strong shortage of labour in these regions, as well as in many other localities and regions. The same applies to my country. There is a clear shortage of professional experts, including metalworking professionals, a crying shortage, a truly screaming shortage. Nevertheless, we still have almost 200,000 unemployed, which means that we still have huge structural problems. And all they're doing here is yelling for more money to be distributed. With interest I look forward to the demars' alternative budget, but I am afraid that Sitra's money will be in play there again and the Bank of Finland's balance sheet has been tampered with. If we are not able to reform this country and make real proposals for improvements to its economy and to the well-being of businesses, then we will never be able to increase public administration by making this country anything but a bankruptcy estate. One big good thing this government has done has been that we have been able to lighten the structures. Over 300 standards have been dismantled. One example I can say is that planning has been simplified, construction has been accelerated, and there are many other things. But is that enough? Well, I'm sure it's not enough. In the next parliamentary term, we will have to make more giant leaps in this red tape. We do not need 86 complaints about whether someone is allowed to build a house or a production building or someone else. Some drunk can stop all the projects. This is democracy? Shouldn't the majority decide? Now it is almost such a minority dictatorship that by knowing how to write one address and by owning one letter and a little note paper you can stop many projects. Is that really what we're trying to do? The third issue in this same chain, apart from the red tape, is the even better use of the opportunities available to them. Antti Rinne, President of Demarie, said in Kuopio on the last day of October that Finland's felling volume is 72.4 million mots and no more. So the demographic position is that there will be no more industrial jobs, no more prosperity, nothing? That we're just gonna pull our heads around and the poor people are gonna fall into it and start to wonder? According to the growth of forests, the current sustainable felling volume exceeds 85 million mots per year. In the next decade we will be able to reach 95 million, that is, close to 100 million mots, that is a sustainable amount of felling. At present, annual forest growth is nearly 110 million mots. So the carbon sink is growing all the time, the carbon stock is growing, but the president of the demos, a major, potential Prime Minister, is suggesting that we now have to put the cloths down and start to wonder. What are we going to do about investment? Finnpulp in Kuopio, should we drive that down too? What about the Kemijärvi pulp mill? What about Lieksa's industrial investment in bio-oil? The bioeconomy will work if we only have enough culture in this country to give it a chance to develop, not just here in the capital region. At the moment, the capital region is not even the engine of growth. That growth potential is quite elsewhere at the moment. If we want to have a genuinely climate-friendly policy in this country one day, we must have the courage to use our own raw materials, and the forests are number one, absolutely. And if our point of view on this point is that we are going to put a brake on those projects that do not support this enormous attempt to concentrate, then there will be a gap that no one wants to imagine even in their worst nightmares. Think of it, today we are paying out a variety of housing allowances and other subsidies in relation to housing and living almost EUR 4 billion a year. Unemployment costs the same, a little more. Almost 10 billion people have gone into money for something that doesn't need any money. I cannot understand that, for example, the demos support the huge need to build more homes here and pay people huge housing subsidies and finally get them to live in housing slavery. Do you think it's the nirvana that all Finns should get to? I don't think so. Is it really the job of a working person, a nurse or a nearby nurse or someone else to be a slave to that bank, a housing slave, for the rest of his life? There used to be serfs, it was forbidden by law. It seems now that the big capitalist is being supported by the massive payment of these housing subsidies, so that expensive apartments can be sold in order to be able to pay the expensive rent. Mr President! Here are a few comments on what should remain on the road to growth. The alternative to Demarie's last parliamentary term is not realism — hopefully it will never be. That is the path we would be taking today by the International Monetary Fund. If you don't believe what I'm saying, get to know the situation in Italy. It is precisely the development you seem to have sought during the last parliamentary term. I hope, Mr President, that Finland will never go down that road. All we need is a little more patriotism and open-mindedness. It's not that big a deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u121	Madam Speaker! In this debate, too, it is appropriate once again to review the developments in the Finnish economy over the last few years, once again in the debate on this second amending budget the economic policy of this parliamentary term has been challenged. The same thing I said when we discussed next year's actual state budget in the referral debate: we need to remember where we started three and a half years ago. Then the world economy grew, the European economy grew, as it does at present. Of course we start to be there at the top of the pyramid and we all know that what goes up sometimes comes down, but the world and Europe were on the rise three and a half years ago. However, there were two poor students, two left in the class: Greece and us, Finland. Over the past three and a half years, we have come up from this situation. We have achieved more than 100,000 new jobs, we have managed to raise the employment rate to 72, and we have managed to restore our public finances. That has been the long line in economic policy that cannot be forgotten. We cannot take care of the weakest people if our economy crumbles. It's a fact of life. It is a fact of the state, of the municipality and of the economy of each of our own families. Mr President! I came to the podium to talk a little about transport, because there is a great deal of investment in transport policy in this excellent amending budget. First of all, I would like to mention this very important project for my constituency and region, and I would like to thank the Sipilä Government and all the ministers involved for the fact that now EUR 20 million is being made available for the development of the Vaasa-Uumaja link: EUR 10 million for the support and development of transport itself and EUR 10 million for a new hybrid ship of this kind, partly running on LNG gas and partly biogas, which will become a completely new type of, environmentally friendly ship. This is very important for the Vaasa region, for tourism in the Vaasa region, for industry in the Vaasa region. It's of enormous importance to my hometown, Kauhava. We have a strong metal industry linked to this Vaasa industry. The significance of this is something that must be highlighted in particular, because there, in the shadow of Lapland and Koli, we too — we deputies who have no dangers and mountains — are a little bit as we sneak into this rising tourism in Finland. We've got pandas, they're in Ähtäri, it's a Europe-wide attraction. It's easier now, after this ship connection, to come to Ahtar to see them. And in my own home, Kauhavan Ala-Härma has an amusement park PowerPark where you can pay with crowns. In the summer, when we talk about economic policy, we have this so-called parallel currency pattern, which has sometimes been highlighted in economic policy. But, President-in-Office, I believe that this new Vaasa-Uumaja ship is also important to Finland as a whole, because one of our big international trade fairway and development corridor departs from that Atlantic beach in Norway, comes through Finland to the Russian market and then all the way to China. We know this so-called 'Silk Road' initiative of the Chinese. They are trying to develop such a link to the west — from them to the west — in trade and trade, and we are right along the Silk Road. I hope that these Corridor projects and the Central North projects will progress further and that the Finnish State will be involved in them and will also press the Kingdom of Sweden to do so. I would also like to thank all my colleagues in the constituency of Vaasa for their good cooperation in bringing this new ship forward. There has really been such regional cooperation across government and party boundaries. Mr President! In order to raise the employment rate in Finland closer to 80% and be able to finance this welfare society in the midst of all these changes and in this surfing world, we need infrastructure investments: we need to develop the main line, we need three tracks from Tampere to this capital region, we need two tracks north and many other projects, there is an east track, an hour train and so on. But we cannot get to grips with these projects in this traditional way, that we are turning this Parliament into the same line of study aid, national pension and then some kind of decades-long rail investment, but we must have a new method of financing these major transport projects. They must in some way be removed from this traditional budgetary procedure. I do not think we should knock out that private investment money for these big infrastructure projects either. Unfortunately, Mr President, we are far behind, not to mention Sweden, Norway. Investing in Infraa, caring for infrastructure, will be a key issue for us to have work to do. And if we do not have work to do, we cannot take care of those most vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u122	Madam President! In its amending budget, the Government proposes EUR 40 million for conversion training. The money will be used for short-term and part-time training for the unemployed and for other measures to promote employment. Money will be allocated to sectors with acute skills shortages. These include the construction and social and health sector. In addition, more so-called coders are being trained. In addition, the Government will allocate EUR 5 million to the Talent Boost Operational Programme. The aim of the programme is to strengthen the availability of experts in growth sectors and the matching of enterprises and international experts to support employment of immigrants and to respond to the labour market needs of enterprises. Representative Uotila claimed that R & D expenditure had stagnated. Congressman Rinne also claimed that the government had cut off the research. Maybe the memory is short, or it's limited. Some trust Statistics Finland's research, as do I. According to Statistics Finland, the survey has been cut by the last government. Research and development funding decreased continuously from EUR 7 billion to EUR 6 billion under the control of the opposition in 2011-2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u125	Madam President! Here, when the opposition spoke of the general economic situation, he said that the government itself could have done something. In my opinion, this is quite a lot said in a situation where the government's economic policy, which it has pursued, has contributed to the fact that our country's economy is currently as positive as it is. After all, the big picture is that the economy is growing, employment is improving, unemployment is falling, the balance of public finances is getting stronger. No one has denied that economic development in the world and in Europe has had a significant impact on how the Finnish economy has turned out, but it is probably just as clear that the government's own actions, government policies, have also contributed to this positive development. With regard to the recent labour market dispute, I was surprised that the trade union movement was prepared to roll its strike machinery onto the streets and markets and workplaces in order to prevent the government and parliament from changing the threshold for hiring small businesses that the government was pushing for. Fortunately, this dispute has been resolved and the threshold for the employment of small entrepreneurs, the pay threshold, will be reduced by the government's proposal, which will be made in the next few days, and it will be a good and important small step forward to further improve employment. This labour market dispute and its relationship with respect for democracy, for example, will certainly come back later. When this labour market dispute was fought, I noticed from the media that for the trade union movement there was much more to the government’s list of sins, or more than the proposed amendment to the Employment Contracts Act. Personally, I was surprised by the fact that, in many of the speeches made by the trade union movement, it seemed that the competitiveness pact that was most chafed by the fact that the campaign against the amendment of the Employment Contracts Act was named at least in the SAK as such a 'Last rit' campaign. It has to be admitted that there is a major downside to the competitiveness pact, and it is, of course, that holiday money was only being cut from public workers, whereas I personally believe that if there was reason to intervene in holiday money, then it would have been fair and justified to cut holiday money from everyone. This would also have ensured that those who receive the highest wages in Finland would have been covered by holiday allowance cuts. But even though I think this is a downside in the competitiveness pact, it is quite clear that the overall assessment of the competitiveness agreement well met the objective set for it, namely that Finland’s cost competitiveness was successfully improved and, as a result of this improved cost competitiveness, tens of thousands of Finns have been given jobs. And in order not to have to argue about the figures, let us say now that I think that we can at least agree in the Chamber that thousands of Finns have been given jobs, even though economists' calculations talk about some 30,000. When this has happened that thousands or, in fact, tens of thousands of unemployed people have been employed as a result of the competitiveness pact, I do not understand why the competitiveness pact is then such a chafing stone in the shoes of the trade union movement. Is it too much for those who work, who retain their jobs, to be satisfied with zero increases and an increase in working time by 6 minutes a day if and when it has enabled tens of thousands of Finnish unemployed people to find employment? Is that too much to ask? What is the solidarity of the trade union movement with the unemployed? It is that better unemployment benefits are required, yes, but what about measures to help the unemployed get a job, should not that policy be made and supported? It must be said that, in itself, when the competitiveness pact was concluded, there was a very broad consensus on its merits. In this Chamber, too, the demars and the Greens supported the Competitiveness Pact and hopefully continue to support it. The Left Alliance was the only party against it. So I don't understand this kind of competitiveness pact demonizing now that it's been working just the way it was hoped. Finland’s cost competitiveness improved, thousands or, in fact, tens of thousands of unemployed people got jobs, and that is not too much to ask of those who have kept their jobs, that they have been flexible for the unemployed, at least not in my opinion. Moreover, now that we look at what is happening in the labour market, the real earnings of employees are currently very positive and a significant increase in real earnings has been estimated for this year and next year. So, Madam President, the sum total: I believe that the competitiveness pact, if we want to be supportive of the unemployed, should not be a stone in the shoes of any trade union movement, and should be satisfied with it and I personally welcome the fact that Finland was able to conclude such a comprehensive agreement and include elements that really improved Finland's national cost competitiveness, and that agreement therefore led to thousands or, in fact, tens of thousands of Finnish unemployed people getting jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u126	Mr President! Now I have to say that I am very pleased with what I have just heard, what has been said, because Mrs Zyskowicz has no longer been bragging about 120,000 jobs, but has been talking about much less money. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] As such, I am not going to argue about how many jobs the Kiki agreement brought or who made it, or why it was made in this country, of which we could argue all night long, but what is the fact is that the competitiveness pact is quite unequal. It thus treats only one person, as Mr Zyskowicz has just said and admitted. But for the municipal decision-maker — if you will allow me to say a few words about the role of the municipal decision-maker in this Chamber — the competitiveness pact was a disaster. Why? Because the tax markets were lost as a result of this summer holiday money. In places with a large number of employees on the public side, the tax money was reduced, and no one compensates for it, and it affects the finances of the whole municipality and the finances of the municipality. This means, at the moment, in a very large number of municipalities, that tax credits must be raised in respect of municipal taxes. So what is the effect on other people and, of course, on those who are under the measures of the Competitiveness Pact? If State taxation is reduced, then on the other side, however, municipal taxation will have to be increased for every single municipal citizen who gets a certain income there. On the other hand, relief does not apply to every municipal citizen on the State Tax side, as not every municipal citizen can reach the State Tax level. These are the things that the medal often has more than one side. The amount that has now been created should have increased our tax revenue, including municipal tax revenue, considerably more than it has now been able to raise. I would like us to have the courage to look the truth in the eye together. If we are talking about an active model, for example, then 18 hours of work in three months will not increase the social level of any person and will not reduce the social costs of the municipality, they will remain exactly the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u127	Madam President! Mr Tolppanen is against the fact that total employment in our country has increased by more than 100,000 workers and that is an excellent thing. In order really not to have to spend the whole evening in this Chamber, I did not go out to give precise figures as to what different components this improvement in overall employment has been due to and what has been the impact of the various measures on this outcome. However, when assessing the success of the competitiveness pact, I wanted to say that we are probably in agreement that it has led to the employment of at least thousands of unemployed people in Finland and that, according to economists' estimates, some 30,000 people are being talked about. So I just wanted to show that the competitiveness pact has worked as desired for the unemployed, and the improvement of employment through the improvement of competitiveness was a key objective of the competitiveness pact. As far as this holiday allowance cut is concerned, I think, as I have already said, that it is unfair to target only the public sector and, in practice, mainly the women-dominated sectors. Representative Tolppanen can ask Riku Aalto and other leaders of male-dominated trade unions why this holiday allowance cut was allocated only to the public sector and practically to women-dominated sectors. As far as these tax revenues are concerned, I think that tax statistics are so recent that very far-reaching conclusions on the impact of the competitiveness pact on tax revenues cannot yet be drawn, but I do deny that this would have been a disaster for the municipalities. Mr Tolppanen also said that the fact that a person is working 18 hours in three months is not a proper employment, and I am not saying that. Instead, I say 18 hours at work is better than zero hours at work. With these considerations, I wanted to respond to Mr Tolppas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u128	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 5. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u129	Mr President! This proposal is about tackling aggressive tax planning and tax evasion through so-called intermediate Community legislation. Unfortunately, it is symbolic that Minister Orpo is not presenting this, as are other elements of the tax avoidance directive, such as the reduction in interest rates to which Sipilä and Orpo are returning the loopholes that Orpo's own ministry had already removed. The current government is not interested in the fight against tax evasion, unlike the rest of Europe, which has become active and has brought about legislation that is unprecedentedly extensive and effective. Unfortunately, Finland is now trying to water it down, and the international pioneer has become a skier. These are harsh words, but now I am putting forward arguments and feeding the Committee on Finance. This law, therefore, is part of the EU tax avoidance directive, which is the so-called law on shell companies. The intermediate Community law addresses the use of low-tax registered shell companies in tax planning. If it applies, the profits of a foreign shell company or intermediate entity are taxed in Finland, which means that tax avoidance does not bring any benefit. In some cases it also applies to companies that have a business in a low-tax country. The intermediate entity is generally taxed at the 20% corporate tax rate in Finland, and any tax paid in a low-tax country is credited in Finland, so that double taxation does not occur. Finland’s intermediate law has been in force since 95, and it is clear that there are some gaps that make it not completely prevent the use of shell companies in tax avoidance. The tax avoidance directive of 2006 requires Finland to amend its intermediate Community legislation in certain respects. But even now, 12 years later, the government's proposal does not change the current situation in practice. The essential loopholes will remain in force, at least no new ones will be opened. In this respect, the government's proposal is also weaker than the first draft law of the Ministry of Finance, where some gaps had been slightly closed. There is no doubt that both parts of the tax avoidance directive, unfortunately, have produced results. In its programmes, the SDP has proposed a number of tightening-up measures to the intermediate law which would remove its main problems — I will present them in that moment. After all, the main problem with the intermediate legislation is that it is not in practice suitable for low-tax entities registered in the EEA States. It's for two reasons. Firstly, the intermediate law can only apply if the intermediate entity has received so-called special tax relief in its Member State of registration. Low taxation is not in itself a special tax relief, which prevents the law from being applied to investment companies registered in Estonia, for example. Secondly, the Intermediary Act is only applicable to EEA companies if they do not have actual activities in that country. The tax practice considers that very little activity, such as one worker, can prevent the application of this law. Thus, even tens of millions of tax benefits can be obtained, and Stora Ensohan, for example, saved some EUR 50 million in taxes between 2005 and 2010, by showing the profits of the pulp trade in a Dutch subsidiary where, during this period, there were zero employees, when two employees were employed. Of course, cellu never went to Holland. The exemption for special tax reductions would be removed from the law, which would allow the law to apply to all low-tax intermediate companies regardless of the origin of low-tax rates. Instead, the latter problem would remain unchanged and the applicability of the exemption for actual activity would also be extended beyond the EEA. At least the draft law required a ‘significant’action in another country which could have been subject toregulation, but this would In addition, the draft law includes the following changes: (1) A shell company could be an intermediate entity with 25% control by Finns — at present 50%. This is a well-founded change in the fight against tax evasion, but its practical significance is relatively limited. 2) The so-called ‘sector exemption’ of the Act was slightly amended and, at the same time, extended its applicability to service activities more generally. At present, it is suitable, among other things, for shipping companies, which have taken advantage of the gap by registering ships in tax havens. Expansion of the industry exemption can allow for tax avoidance in certain situations, even if it is not of enormous importance. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out that the Social Democrats have raised the issue of combating aggressive tax planning on many occasions. Our international anti-tax avoidance programme and our tax programme also include in particular entries in the intermediate law, which can be highlighted. The intermediate law is a particularly effective law, as it effectively combats tax competition and prevents investment in low-tax countries. So it cannot be justified by supporting investments in Finland. On the contrary, the loose intermediate law encourages investment outside Finland. In this connection, I may mention only four of the entries in the tax programme: 1) The shortcomings of the current Finnish law can be eliminated when the directive is implemented, which means that it must be done on the basis of the current Finnish legislation and not reduce the scope of the law. Fortunately, this is happening. (2) Instead, the intermediate law should be specified in such a way that it is also possible to tax the income of low-taxed intermediate entities to the EEA entities when the intermediate entity’s income does not actually accrue from the country in which it is registered. Such a change would be needed. 3) The intermediate law must apply to all low-taxed incomes regardless of the sector or the type of regulations that result from low taxation. 4) The intermediate law should apply to entities whose taxation is lower than 75% of the Finnish tax. Today, the rule is 50%. In addition to these, it is very important to remember the one bill I have put forward in this toilet before. At the end of the day, I will refer briefly to this: Act 8/2018 would extend the tax liability of entities registered abroad in the Finnish Income Tax Act so that they are generally taxable in Finland when they are effectively derived from Finland. The expert group of the VM has also proposed this in due course. It would then draw attention to where the virtual establishment of this activity would be, and this will play an important role in the future reform of digital taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u130	Mr President! In practice, the intermediate entity refers in this context to a drawer or holding company. This is an important law and possibly another missed opportunity to curb tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. Intermediary regulation, if effectively implemented, can address aggressive tax planning and curb cross-border tax competition. The current Finnish intermediate law contains gaps and reform is indeed needed. On the positive side, the government's proposal abolishes the exemption for special tax relief. It is also a good thing that the law can be applied if Finnish control of the intermediate community is at least 25 per cent, while today the limit is 50 per cent. On the other hand, the government proposal contains shortcomings, as Mr Harakka has just described very well. The Government's proposal has also been substantially undermined by the original Government draft, and it is a great disappointment. The draft law still required that activity, that is to say establishment in another country, be significant in order to prevent the law from being applied, but this entry has now been deleted. So the situation would remain the same, the same, or bad, as it is today. In addition, the tolerance of the totomy to subsidiaries located outside the EEA, which feeds harmful tax competition, has been substantially extended. According to the proposal, for example, industry, shipping and many other services would be outside the scope of application. In practice, subtleties may lead to a law that will continue to be as lax and ineffective as it has been so far. The derogation for a foreign community in the EU and the EEA allows for very artificial arrangements to be defined as economic activities. So the bill is a bit of a step forward in some respects, but it is far from enough. If the minister were here — which, unfortunately, he is not, even though it is an important law — I would ask him: Why? Why on earth has the bill been watered down in this way from the original draft? Hopefully we will get an answer to this at some point, but at least I hope that in committee work this issue will be dealt with very carefully, because combating aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition must be a national priority, both in this national legislation and in Finland's EU impact and international influence work. Unfortunately, this is not the case. It seems to be under the Sipilä government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u131	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Committee on Defence must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 6. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u132	Madam President! I will not spend the whole 45 minutes because there was only one speech, but I will draw attention to a few points, the most important of which is that we had an Iraq report here just before the summer break, and we know that this proposal that we should also participate in this second operation, this training mission with NATO forces, came a few weeks later. So when we were here in September to discuss the feedback debate on the report, we had this paper waiting for months, so the question arises as to how things are organised in the Ministry of Defence, because it would have been reasonable and reasonable for this Chamber to have at the same time discussed these two operations in Iraq, where Finns are training. But this was not the case. Finland has been in Iraq in these operations, and very good results, if seen, not only for the Finns, but for the whole operation Compared to Isil's current position. I very much welcome the fact that in this area, while Finland is taking on its international responsibility for peace also, it is in crisis management, which has not always been the top priority for everyone in this government, that now women and girls have also been included in this version. In the previous report, the Social Democrats suggested that, in accordance with UN Resolution 1325, the role of girls and women in crisis management and training operations and in the field of warfare should be taken more seriously, but this did not happen. I hope that this line will continue and improve and that, at this point, the position of girls and women, which has undoubtedly been known for a long time, is important if we are to have effective action in the peace process and to keep up with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u133	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u134	Madam President! This is a law on the weakening of employment relations between municipal and government officials, and last week we have already voted on more than one section. But when there are three bills here, one of these is something we propose to reject completely. It particularly affects municipal officials and is thus undermining the conditions of employment so that the obligation to take back is reduced. In other words, when an official for one reason or another has been disbanded, the time for him to be offered the next job that comes with the same agency is being shortened. There is no reasonable basis for this, because the only reason is the administrative burden and the administrative burden is not very great, i.e. to send it an e-mail over a period of 12 months or 24 months. The second thing we are proposing to reject is the way in which the government says that it will improve the employment situation so that the long-term unemployed can be elected to a municipal office even without applying. But the problem here is that you can choose for a fixed period without justification. I still have not found or know any such posts where the long-term unemployed could be selected for a fixed period of one year without justification, because, as far as I know, all the posts that exist include quite a training requirement, and it is not easy to jump into that post as well. That's why this kind of short-term job in some department isn't justified. And another aspect is that jobs do not work with the same logic as employment relationships, that the market throws away, that sometimes the product is sold more and sometimes less. This is not the basis for the establishment of posts; instead, there is always another criterion for posts, and it is usually an administrative function. That is why we do not understand this logic, which is therefore the second part of the wreck in this second bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u135	Mr President! During this period, we have seen the government have already been weakening the terms of employment here. Now this line is really going on here on the side of official relations. As has been demonstrated in the past, the main problem with this bill is that these measures or their effects cannot be justified either by statistical data or by research data. Instead of what is more evidence, these proposals do undermine the protection of people from dismissal, increase insecurity and inequality in working life and stiffen the labour market by reducing their willingness to change jobs. Mr President! It is easy to agree with what Mr Paatero said above. I will just raise one more point here regarding this extension of the probationary period. Indeed, then, on the public side, it would be possible for the employer to extend the probationary period, for example, in cases where the official has been on family leave, for example, during the probationary period, and this would lead to an extension of the probationary period. Everyone understands when it comes to women-dominated areas that this is probably not a very good signal for equality. As we have tried more to take Finland in the direction that the situation in our labour market would be better, that we would be in a more equal position, this kind of change does mean that the government is again pulling the rug from under the feet, for example, from fresh mothers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u136	Madam President! This is where Congressman Räsänen brought the point that what we are doing again. We should be able to promote equality, so what is this government doing with this proposal? It is in some way incomprehensible that we are talking about another and then we are making different decisions and legislative proposals that do not allow this equality between men and women. I would of course like to emphasise the equality of men in this debate during the Men's Week. But as Mr Paatero pointed out in his very good speech, we should see this whole: what are employment relations, what is temporary and what is the security of employment? Yes, we really do, even though there are only a few of us here in the Chamber,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u137	Mr President! There was so much to say in that previous speech that the most important thing was to forget, namely that I support this motion by Mr Paatero in order to reject this second draft law. Mr President! Perhaps it can be said to this that if, as I have heard, we have a stated objective of making working life more equal, more equal than it is today, it will then require various actions in favour of it. And now it is really the case, as Mrs Myllykoski well said, that words and actions do not meet in this government party. The hope is that people will also remember this when we move towards the elections next spring and then people will be able to decide what kind of policy to take forward from here. And I hope, Mr President, that the time will come when these working conditions do not always go in the direction of reducing what we are trying to do, but we will sometimes be on the side of looking at which working conditions can improve things, so that we in Finland as a whole can improve the quality of working life, both in terms of employment relations and in terms of employment relations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u138	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 12/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Mr Eerola, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u139	Madam President! Government motion 64, amendment of the Rescue Act, or these drag patterns. — In most of the country, as we know, a district licking system has been in place, where the rescue services in the region have put in competition and selected the companies operating in the area and have decided on the price of the licking. However, the district heating system has already been abandoned in part of the country. With these proposed amendments to the Rescue Act, Finland will switch to the free provision of licking services throughout the country. The rescue action in the region is to be removed from the obligation to organise the sweep services and, at the same time, the price regulation associated with the district licking is also to be abolished. The committee points out that no changes are now being proposed to the content of the licking work and to the length of the licking. Sweeping must be done frequently enough, taking into account the fireplace’s utilisation rate, structure and spent fuel. In buildings used for permanent housing, fireplaces and smoke ducts must be flushed at least every year, as has been the case until now, and in buildings used for leisure accommodation every three years, and this is as it is today. The responsibility of the owner and the holder of the building also remains the same. The responsibility for organising rescue services under this current district licking system and the related price regulation have been aimed at ensuring the availability of reasonably priced pick-up services also in sparsely populated areas. According to this study, there have been some problems in the availability and quality of services in some parts of Finland. However, there has been no need in any area for the rescue services to produce these sweep services as their own work. For a long time, the aim of the regulation on licking has been to highlight the ownership of property owners and owners of their own responsibility for fire safety and to reduce the regulatory burden on business by allowing for a system of licking based on the free provision of services. These changes, which are now being proposed, will further highlight this effort when the district licking system is abolished as a whole. The reform is also driven by the existing requirements of the EU Services Directive and existing procurement legislation. The Committee notes that the proposed regulation clarifies the system at national level. The contract-based system increases the customer’s ability to choose independently the supplier of the sweeper service on the schedule he wishes. In preparing this Government’s proposal, it has been estimated that the availability of seduction services will be sufficiently achieved on market terms without any need to regulate the responsibility for organising the services. With the end of the drawing-up process, the regulation on the conduct of the economic activities of the extractive companies will be reduced, which is expected to improve the conditions for companies to operate and facilitate the entry of new companies into this sector. It is also easier to act part-time as a sweeper with this new practice. Today, there are some four hundred national companies in the sector. Most of these have served as district licking companies. The vast majority of cleaning companies are small, locally operating companies. This sector currently employs some 700 to 800 sweepers, from which it can easily be calculated that there are approximately two employees per company. This reform is expected to increase the number of companies in the sector, and hence employment, as it will be possible to start a business in the future without winning competition from the sector. However, this reform also involves risks related to the availability of services and the coverage of the sweep, which is why the committee stresses that the key to the reform is that the question of whether or not there will be a need for a sweeper register in the future, as well as how the customer of the sweeper services can ensure that this person, who will provide these sweepers, meets the requirements for the eligibility of the sweeper and that he is otherwise honest that he will not take away — whether or not to use such a term here — the ash from the nest. There was also an objection to this committee report. I was part of it myself, but when I see that Mr Paatero is also here, we leave it for him to present. However, this committee’s proposal, quite frankly, is worded as follows: ‘The Commission requires that the reform of the Government’s strict rules on recovery,in particular on fire safety and on the availability, quality and price of licking services, is affected. A written report on the implementation of the reform shall be submitted to the Administrative Committee by the end of 2021. In addition, the Parliament requires the Government to determine whether there will be a need for the drag register in the future and how the customer can ensure that the service provider meets the requirements for the safety of the sweeper.’
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u140	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Rescue Act so as to remove the obligation for the rescue services in the region to be provided in their territory. This would mean the end of the restrictive district licking system and the price regulation of licking services, and in particular this is a source of fear among people. Another cause for concern is the idea that anyone will be able to sweep the chimneys of elderly detached houses along with window washing. In total, Finland has approximately 1.27 million leaching properties, 74 per cent of which are residential buildings and 25 per cent free-time residences. With the current sweeps, the sweep should be made annually in just over a million properties. A long time has been prepared to change the arrow, since 2012. Currently, the Rescue Act requires the owner and the owner of the building to ensure that the ladder is in good condition and that the fireplace and the flue of smoke has been removed at certain intervals. In addition, the rescue services of the region will decide on the organisation of the sweep services in the area. No rescue service in Finland has produced a drag as its own work, even if it was legally possible. On the other hand, the most common method of organising the service is the district licking system, i.e. the rescue services are bidding for a certain service provider. The selected sweeper company complies with the rate agreed by the rescue service and has an obligation to provide a sweep of all areas of its territory, including, for example, cottages in sparsely populated areas. Similarly, it has the exclusive right to legal seduction in the district area. The customer can still buy additional darts from any company you wish. The third option is to allow the owner or owner of the building to buy the chimney itself from a service provider. This has been in experimental use in a few areas. Fear of the performance is considered to be price pressure if the sweeper no longer offers his services at a time. It is also feared that entrepreneurs will not be interested in providing services to remote destinations or that the price of the service with travel costs will be too high for them. In any case, the number of places to be swept down in sparsely populated areas has decreased as the population declines and in urban areas it has increased because more and more detached houses have fireplaces. In fact, every single house should require some kind of fireplace. It would be wisdom in a cold country like Finland. According to this proposal, no changes are proposed to the content of the licking work and to the range of the licking. Sweeping must continue to be done frequently enough, taking into account the fireplace’s utilisation rate, structure and spent fuel. In buildings used for permanent housing, fireplaces and smoke ducts shall continue to be flushed at least every year and in buildings used for leisure accommodation every three years. The owner and keeper of the building also retain the obligation to carry out the sweep. That, too, is not what this proposal is about to change. What is important in this whole reform is that there will continue to be sufficient and affordable access to licking services throughout the country. From the point of view of fire safety itself, it is essential that the property owners take care of their licking obligation and that the quality of the sweep service is maintained. These things must not be compromised. In my opinion, the method of organising the draw does not have an impact on fire safety, but on the regular and professional conduct of the sweep and inspection. The current requirement for a vocational qualification remains with the nurse. In other words, the nurse must continue to have a master’s degree or a professional degree in technical engineering, in which she has completed her field of expertise. So, just anyone can't do the licking. Madam President! It is clear that such an important legislative amendment should be followed up and necessary changes made in the future, if deemed necessary. I therefore very much welcome the proposal for a statement made by the Administrative Committee in this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u141	Madam President! As the President-in-Office has just said, there has been quite a lot of criticism, and so we have also lodged a joint objection with the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the Finns. We are not proposing to reject the whole law, because there are a few good points there, including the announcements of the condition of the ladders and others on the roof, and they are justifiable. The whole bill is based on the general ideology of this government, that the public side can no longer produce and the public side is not involved in anything, but everything is given to the market and business. After all, this has already been done on the part of municipalities, for example, with regard to waste management, with regard to employment services, with occupational health care being scrapped, and with regard to social welfare reform being put on the market as a whole, or to a large extent, and now one part of this is part of the recovery. It is sad that, after that, the regions must not decide what would be the best model and what would be the most reasonable area. So far it has been possible to do so. At least two regions have tried market-based operations, most of Finland's arrangements have a district licking system, and then it has been possible for the rescue services to organise the sweep operations as an emergency reserve. Not even the part of the law that is written on the side of the wars — if it goes through this house — was left in the bud that, if there is no market-based activity, it must be organised on the public side, but that law prohibits the organisation of the public side. So I do not know what will happen in those parts of the country if such places come, where there will be no market players, at least at the prices at which people could take it. I'm sure it'll be seen and followed up in the future. The responsibility for this point is thus increasingly and more transferred to the owner of the property, and these questions, which have already been raised here, will then come under the responsibility of the property manager: to remember when these nuggets were made the previous time, to monitor its price, because today, according to this new law, no one else has anything to say at that price, i.e. the price may vary depending on where they live, and at this point, for example, regions with long distances or islands will probably find it in their own range of services, that the price is probably quite different for them than in areas with a lot of real estate. In the same way, there is a responsibility to access, so marketing will certainly come, but if not, then it will be the property owner himself, who is looking for different entrepreneurs in order to arrange the sweep. Similarly, the property managers themselves monitor the quality, so that they must have knowledge and understanding of what it really means, what it involves and what it does not include, because there is already some knowledge of additional inspections or cleaning or inspection of the equipment that have nothing to do with fire safety. But after this, only the owner of the property will be responsible. In South Karelia, among other things, this market-based model has been in operation and many users have argued that it is a highly functional system. After a few years, we will probably see what the outcome is, because the number of arrows has decreased, i.e. will it then have consequences for fire safety in the future? The number of arrows is decreasing, even though we know how many fireplaces and everything else people have today, perhaps even more than some time ago. In other words, this has been the case in the past, when this has been done, the big question, otherwise this could have been allowed to be the ‘each man for his own licking’ system in the olden days. But it has been considered that there is a need for fire safety in order to make this kind of system, which is now being dismantled. The current model has therefore had the opportunity to do so with these three different systems. In particular, in this district shooting system, the rescue services have been responsible for this: competitive, checking quality, checking professional qualifications, checking the company’s background. Now nobody's doing this except the owner of the property. And in this case, the rescue services have also determined its price: it is not the price for miles where the property happens to be located, but there is the same price in the same area or within the same circle. At the same time, the rescue department has kept a list of the properties where the sweep was carried out. It may not have been quite up-to-date everywhere, but in any case these district shooters have been obliged to tell us how many and what properties have been visited. There won't be any more of this. This will be withdrawn by this law. We also have concerns about the fact that this requires professional qualifications from the sweepers, but at least there is not yet a desire to create a register in Finland where the buyer, that is, the owner of the property who is the sweeper of the farm, could check whether this person, who markets himself as a sweeper, has the qualifications. We discussed this for a long time in the Administrative Committee that it should be, and now the wording has come to this, that it will be considered in the future as to whether this professional register should be. There are quite a few very important professions where we have registers and information about who really are doctors, and we also have information about who are engineers, who are allowed to design what kind of bridges or houses or anything else, but now that information is not being sought for the consumer. We have unfortunate experiences in recent years when we were thinking, for example, about the Wastewater Regulation, how people started moving, selling different types of sewage systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u142	Madam President! I myself have not been dealing with this legislation in Parliament, but I have received a few contacts on these seduction services and, in fact, on what Mr Paatero rightly pointed out, in my opinion, a register or information which could ensure its professional qualifications. I think it is worth serious consideration. I'd be willing to take it forward by now. The same contact also highlighted fitness checks with similar situations, i.e. it is not correct to know who does them in what way, and then, of course, it is very much left to the service-producing report, what his skills are and what kind of check is being made. I myself am a teacher and I have also presented teachers with such a register. In fact, we do not have a register today that would enable parents of children, schoolchildren or larger schoolchildren or high school students to verify the qualifications of their own teachers, for example. For example, we are currently not supervised in Finland by what kind of educational background we have in teaching. We can make long substitutes and be incompetent in the role of teacher. Yes, it would be right and reasonable for them to have a register to be viewed from. I myself have made a proposal a long time ago to protect the teacher's professional title so that it would only be used by those who have been trained in that work. It is one of the most demanding tasks and important tasks in which education is quickly visible, especially when there are students who need special support or need something more than the usual school life. Mr President! I myself will give strong support to this register of professional qualifications, including in the field of safety-sweeping services. It would be good if such matters could be verified through the register and so the subscriber would know that he was getting what he was ordering.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u143	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 14/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Mr Eerola, chairman of the committee, on a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u144	Madam President! The report by the Administrative Committee proposes to adopt a law on the processing of personal data in criminal matters and in the context of maintaining national security. The proposed legislation implements the so-called Criminal Data Protection Directive nationally. Police, prosecutors, general courts, Criminal Sanctions Agency, Customs, Border Guard and many other competent authorities applying this proposed law. The law applies to the processing of personal data in the case of prevention, detection, detection or prosecution of a criminal offence. The law also applies in the case of prosecution of a criminal offence, criminal proceedings before a court, the enforcement of a criminal sanction or the protection against threats to public security or the prevention of such threats. The Act also applies to the processing of personal data by the Defence Forces, the police and the Border Guard in connection with the maintenance of national security. This provision is not based on a directive, but on our own national solution. This proposed Criminal Data Protection Act is of a general nature, i.e. it applies unless otherwise provided for in other legislation. The authorities applying the law also have specific regulations for the administrative sector. The Criminal Data Protection Act lays down general principles for the processing of personal data, such as the legality of the processing, the purpose of the processing, the necessity and the correctness of the processing. The law also contains specific provisions on, for example, the processing of information deemed to be sensitive information. In addition, the law provides for the responsibility of the controller and processor, the rights of the data subject, data security, data protection officer, requirements to be respected when personal data are transferred to third countries, further enforcement of the law and remedies and sanctions. Compliance with the law is monitored by the Data Protection Supervisor. At the same time as this directive, an EU General Data Protection Regulation has been adopted, accompanied by another government proposal, which is actually being discussed right here. The authorities referred to in the Criminal Data Protection Act shall apply this Data Protection Regulation and its complementary national legislation in the case of processing of personal data other than those covered by this Directive. In connection with the examination of the draft Criminal Data Protection Act, we raised a number of issues, such as the issue of a registered remedy, which were also raised in connection with the next Government proposal No 9 of this paragraph. In the interests of clarity and consistency of legislation, the Administrative Committee considers it justified that national legislative solutions should be as uniform as possible on these issues. There are also justified differences between these proposals. It is important, among other things, that, unlike this data protection regulation and its complementary national legislation, to which I referred just now, which applies in both the public and private sectors, this proposed Criminal Data Protection Act is, in principle, only applied by the authorities chosen to do so. In accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, these legislative proposals can only be dealt with in the ordinary legislative order, but only if the first draft is adopted in accordance with Articles 48 and 61 of the committee's Rules of Procedure. The constitutional observations made on the subject shall be duly taken into account. In addition, the Committee on Legal Affairs has also issued an opinion on the proposal. The Committee on Administrative Affairs, Mr President, supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal with comments and amendments on the committee's report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u145	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 13/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Statement by Mr Eerola, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u146	Mr President! In fact, in the course of the debate, this HE 9, to which I referred a little in my previous speech. This report by the Administrative Committee is about national legislation complementary to the EU Data Protection Regulation. The EU Data Protection Regulation is a directly applicable right, including the rights of the data subject and the obligations of the controller and processor. However, this Regulation leaves certain possibilities for some national derogations and then for the necessary clarifications provided for by this proposed data protection law. It is proposed to use the national margin in situations where the repeal of the current Personal Data Act would result in the need for national regulation, for example, in order to maintain the legal basis for processing personal data in certain situations or in order to maintain the conditions for scientific research as far as possible in the light of current findings. It is also possible to use the national margin at a later stage, for example when specific legislation is adopted. This national margin also includes the age limit for providing information society services directly to the child. The committee supports the 13-year age limit proposed by the government. A younger child would need parental consent to use these services requiring the provision of personal data. In Finland, therefore, this age limit for a child would be lower than that laid down in the Data Protection Regulation — it is therefore 16 years in the Data Protection Regulation. Finland’s age limit corresponds to that of the other Nordic countries, mainly Sweden and Denmark. The Committee on Administrative Affairs considers it important to take steps to ensure that children and young people can operate safely in that wonderful world of the network. Among other things, the committee has stressed the importance of media skills and the understandable nature of the terms of use of online services. This Data Protection Regulation also contains obligations for these Member States. For example, it is necessary to designate a national supervisory authority and to provide for matters related to it. In addition, the protection of personal data under the Data Protection Regulation must be coordinated with certain other rights, such as freedom of expression and the principle of publicity. The proposal for a data protection law also includes proposals for these. Furthermore, under the proposed Data Protection Act, this Data Protection Regulation would also be applicable subject to certain limitations where the processing of personal data would be excluded from the scope of the Data Protection Regulation and the Criminal Data Protection Directive. Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has issued two opinions on this matter. According to the first opinion, these legislative proposals can only be dealt with in the ordinary order of the law, but only if such constitutional observations made by the committee concerning the application of the Parliament's legislative powers, the supervisory authority's supervisory authority's supreme judicial authorities, the procedure for imposing administrative sanctions and the repeal of the Personal Data Act are duly taken into account, i.e. only in that case. The Administrative Committee also asked for the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on the regulatory package relating to the imposition of administrative penalties. According to the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, the draft articles annexed to the opinion of the Administrative Committee may be dealt with in the order of adoption of the ordinary law. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also called for other comments, particularly on legal certainty, to be taken into account in this report. The committee has also delivered an opinion on the proposal. In the light of the opinions of the Constitutional Committee, the Administrative Committee proposes to amend this draft law in such a way as to impose a penalty charge on the Data Protection Supervisor and the Assistant Supervisor as if it were a college of sanctions. A decision on this penalty payment would be taken on a presentation and would be subject to appeal to the Administrative Court. In the view of the Administrative Committee, the present proposal includes a government proposal, the opinion of the Legal Committee and other procedural measures to improve legal certainty in other respects. Among these are the regulation of the voting procedure, the right of appeal for a decision on penalties, the limitation of the penalty fee and its enforcement, the enforceability of the decision as valid, the application of general administrative laws to the procedure, the accountability of the authority and the obligation to provide evidence, etc. In addition, the report proposes clarifications and clarifications of the various terminology for this regulation. In terms of legal security, further clarifications to the penal provisions are also important. The Administrative Committee in this report stresses the need for understandable guidance and a number of understandable advice to facilitate the application of data protection regulation. Furthermore, our committee believes that the adequacy of resources for the implementation of the Data Protection Regulation should be monitored with the right active attention and, if necessary, it should also be possible to review it. In order to ensure that personal data are effectively protected and monitored, it is absolutely essential that the resources of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman are guaranteed in the future. The draft law also includes amendments to the constitutional observations concerning Parliament's Parliament's Parliament's parliament and the Supreme Legal Officers. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also called for the Administrative Committee to ensure, by means of transitional provisions, that the scope of the general legislation on the protection of personal data is comprehensive even before the entry into force of the Police Directive, i.e. the law on the implementation of the Criminal Data Protection Directive, should the proposal for a Data Protection Act be adopted before that date. Mr President! There is no matter how much more to tell about this report and I see it, but I think that this has now become the most important and most of the listeners are quite satisfied. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u147	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 14/2018 vp, the decision will be taken at the sole reading of the amendment of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u148	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-06-ps-109.u149	Madam President! This is therefore a bill for the amendment of the Income Tax Act. This initiative proposes that a business name entrepreneur may deduct a maximum of EUR 400 per year from the costs of sports and cultural activities. The form of enterprise puts sole entrepreneurs in an unequal position in support of well-being and working life. An entrepreneur working in a limited company and a partnership can pay cash and benefits in kind. If he wishes, he will receive self-employed cultural and sports activities on a limited tax-free basis, as will other employees of the company. The entrepreneur is on the same line as his employees. A trader or professional, i.e. a so-called business name entrepreneur, cannot be an employee of himself and therefore an employee. Therefore, even the cost of self-motivated sports and cultural activities cannot be tax-free. The business name entrepreneur is responsible for the operations of his own company, which emphasises the importance of well-being and well-being. In monetary flows in the national economy, an income tax-deductible purchase of banknotes by an independent entrepreneur would not be a mere loss of tax revenue. The entrepreneur pays the banknote service provider on order, and the banknotemaker’s turnover increases. When using a sports voucher, the sole entrepreneur would purchase a service from a company that will earn and pay income tax on the banknotes it receives, and the sole entrepreneur who bought the service with the banknote aims to increase its turnover with improved working capacity. Changes in work must ensure that the ability to work is maintained. This must also apply to nearly 200,000 sole entrepreneurs. The importance of sole entrepreneurs for society, the economy and employment is increasing. Solitary entrepreneurs provide work for other companies and employ themselves and as they grow up others. Enabling business name entrepreneurs to have a sports and cultural voucher would be an important act to support the well-being and working capacity of entrepreneurs. Solitary entrepreneurs often act without self - saving to the extreme limits of coping, and self - care also needs to be taken care of, and incentives are needed to do this. That is where this right to deduct tax on cultural and sports vouchers is appropriate. This initiative is signed by three colleagues: Mr Heikkinen, Mr Pakkanen and Mr Pirttilahti. In this bill we propose that Parliament adopt the following draft law. Article 30b of the Act amending the Income Tax Act The entrepreneur’s reduction in physical and cultural activity, which is as follows: ‘Commercial or professional persons engaged in business activities under the name of activity shall have an annual reduction of at most 400euros permanence or cultural activities. For the purposes of this article, cultural activities refer to visits to museums, theatres, operas, cinemas, concerts, art exhibitions or other similar events or events related to different fields of art. Cultural activities are also considered to be visits to a science centre and sporting events and participation in a guided functional art course. “ Madam Speaker! I hope that this initiative will be welcomed by the Committee on Finance and its progress towards actual legislation. This is important and affects a very large number of self-employed individuals. - Thank you.
