ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Congressman Eestilä will introduce you. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! [Fresh—The President-in-Office] In time, when this hall laid down the electricity market law to improve security of supply, it led to massive investments in certain areas, thereby increasing the cost structure for consumers, entrepreneurs and, of course, agriculture, and increasing electricity transmission charges. The money for these major investments must be taken from somewhere. And since then, this hall has reasonably decided that in certain regions — these regions are mainly in Eastern Finland, Kainuu and Lapland — these investments can be managed to be managed at a low rate. In other words, the improvement of security of supply can be extended with the consent of the Energy Agency so that consumers do not need to increase these electricity transmission charges so much. This initiative proposes a reduction of the electricity tax to tax category II of the second tax table in those areas where the electricity market law actually involves significant investments to improve the security of electricity supply. The issue is that in Finland electricity transmission charges do not differ unduly in different areas of Finland. The variation of the model set out in this bill is currently in place in Sweden. If this is done and this excise duty on electricity is changed, it will lead to a reduction in those areas where these transport prices have increased unduly, because of the lower tax on transmission. In this respect, it is worth taking the example of Sweden too, because it also leads to it — today there is a lot of talk about pension poverty, because the costs of living are rising, there is a significant increase in energy, there is a rise in health costs — that the lower we get these costs, the better the pensioners will be able to get along in everyday life and pay their bills. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President! There is also another aspect of this, which has led to an excessive increase in electricity transmission charges in Finland — everyone remembers this Caruna summer — and that is that the Energy Agency has defined ‘reasonable output’ for the current value of the electricity grid. How many of you consider a return of 6,87 % at a time of negative interest rates to be reasonable? When such changes at the agency level have been made, they have made a reform in which the power system operator can choose the level of return to be taken. And when we go back ten years, the interest rate was, of course, completely different from what it is today. If we were to make two changes, i.e. a reduction in the maximum rate of return allowed for this current value of use of the network, even in some way to reflect the current level of interest rates, which would, in my view, mean a reduction of between 1.5% and 2%, which would give the electricity transmission price a legitimate ceiling — and then make this change, like the Swedish model, I think that time for many people would therefore be better able to live and money would be left out of compulsory expenditure. This is particularly true for pensioners today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u3	Madam President! In his bill, Mr Eestilä suggests that electricity tax should be reduced in areas where the electricity market law actually causes significant investments in improving the security of electricity supply, i.e. in those areas where heavy winds are regularly cut down and nitrogen snow breaks down trees on electricity lines, sometimes causing long cuts in electricity. In order to avoid power cuts, the transfer companies have had to change the trends of the lines and even dig the transmission lines into the ground. Investments will be paid in the long run by consumers as electricity transmission charges. There has been information in the public domain that many consumers in the electricity bill have a higher electricity transmission price than the price of the electricity consumed. No one wants to understand this, let alone accept it. Mr President! This week, the financial reports report on a retired man who lives in an electrically heated house. He uses day and night power. The man's contract with the electricity supplier is coming to an end and has received a further offer from the company. According to the ‘offer’,the total price of electricity That's where it bounced. His consumption means an additional cost of around EUR 100 per month, and that is quite a lot. Current consumption and transfer prices, including taxes, are particularly affected, as Mr Eestilä said in his presentation, by low incomes and pensioners living in sparsely populated rural areas. As far as I'm concerned, it's a representative. The Eestilä bill should be put to the test in committee through consultation and referrals. Madam President! I am in favour of this proposal, but I am not yet taking a stand on the tax transfer procedure itself at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u4	Madam President! When a big storm swept over Finland and the electricity was cut off from many areas, from large sectors, and it took a lot of time to create new connections, and especially in farms and industry it caused very difficult situations to cross electricity, a law was introduced requiring digging into the ground, i.e. the lines that are currently hanging in the air, to dig into the ground by a certain date — there is a longer transition period for special areas. This basically led to the situation we are in now. First of all, you can say that the Finnish electricity network is in good condition on average, but now, according to this law, it is necessary to dismantle a fully usable network because the law requires companies to sink network cables into the ground. This is where Mr Eestilä said that the Energy Agency will determine the level of the transfer price. It currently stands at 6.8% of the present value. It can indeed be regarded as very high, but the argument is that this is a waste of very useful property. In southern Finland and in many other areas, energy companies responsible for the regional transmission network have already built so-called loop networks, i.e. if one, let me say, the part of the transmission system is damaged, then electricity can be distributed to the same region or company through another way. This means that the risk is significantly reduced. If, then, it is thought that a real windstorm like this takes power out of many areas, then the fastest thing is to handle the situation with aggregates. It could also have been required that energy companies that distribute electricity have some kind of reserve on aggregates, which is the fastest, most efficient and cheapest way, and which is also needed for security of supply. In order to maintain energy supply in crisis situations, aggregates are needed. In my opinion, this initiative, which now applies to these peripheral regions, could have been extended to the whole country. The cost of this whole process for the Finnish state and Finns is perhaps between 12 and 15 billion, of which, I would say, one third is the kind of loss that is quite useful, which could have been avoided with greater consideration and thus used to finance a single forestry industry combinatation, for example, the money that is now going to Kankkula well. This is an example of a well-intentioned decision being made in a state of emergency, but when there was not enough consideration, then people will suffer and, if electricity is used, they will end up in a situation where the transfer charge, i.e. the certainty that electricity will come, will cost more than the actual use of energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u5	Madam President! Mr Eestilä's bill is excellent, given that the use of electricity in every person's household certainly plays a very important role. Without electricity, no one's gonna get along today. This is particularly acute in rural conditions, for example, in the agricultural sector, where there is a line behind long journeys, and when it is often broken because of storms, then we have to resort to such solutions as Mr Lehti mentioned. Aggregates are an excellent solution. But this pricing now, thanks to these new laws, which the Parliament has decreed, that we should have these safe power grids to start building, sinking cables into the ground, has really led to the situation that in many electricity bills that transmission is greater than the price of electricity itself. This kind of panic solution, which really started to build these land networks around Finland — different companies are doing it fiercely: in my home country of North Karelia, the local electricity company has been doing it for a long time, just as in Savo, where there were bigger damage, Savon Voima is doing the same thing very hard — it is raising the transfer fees enormously and clearly putting Finns in a position of inequality. Yes, Mr Estilä's initiative and then, generally speaking, this is a very good objective to compensate for these costs on a national level, or even a little fairer. I think that it would now be worthwhile for the Ministry of Economic Affairs or some other responsible operator — or should Parliament give this a boost in the context of this legislative initiative — to examine this issue quickly and make good proposals on how to balance the price of electricity. It is really unfair that in some area that transfer fee is quite unreasonable and then in others there is hardly any additional charge, and yet there is a living in the same country. That is why this initiative by Mr Estilä is an excellent initiative, and this puts this cat on the table, which we can now discuss, and hopefully Parliament will do something about it. Finally, Mr President, Mr Lehde's economic analysis on this issue is quite appropriate. This current procedure costs an enormous amount of money. I do not know whether anyone will be able to stop it or make sense, but, in any case, consideration should now be obtained from the Parliament in order to compensate for the costs of electricity transmission and in such a way that Northern Finland or Eastern Finland or, in general, this long-distance Finland will not have to bear excessive costs because these transmission charges have even become excessive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u6	Madam President! It is easy to agree with the foregoing. Representative Eestilä has taken the initiative on an issue that I myself have received a great deal of feedback around Finland over the years, especially very angry and critical feedback. It is now good that this issue is being addressed and that it is being thoroughly investigated. It is about time, and I myself will be very interested in waiting and watching where we end up. Thank you very much, Mr Eestilä, for finally putting the matter — and the cat in particular — on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u7	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, a representative. Eestilä has taken a good legislative initiative, the aim of which is in itself to reduce the consumer price of electricity. The increase in the consumer price is therefore due to the obligation of land-caching, which applies even to small villages. In other words, the electricity companies have said that it would be more profitable for them to make their own power plant for a small, perhaps declining village. All of this is about reducing regulation. Whether this bill is exactly the right one — at least it is in the right direction — I am not taking a stand. The second part of Eestilä’s speech concerned a reasonable demand for electricity companies to make a profit. That 6.8 has been unreasonable. Of course, as Mr Lehti said, it has been unreasonable because this regulation has been unreasonable in itself. And then one factor that needs to be mentioned here is that electricity distribution has also been overcharged between 2012 and 2015. For 110 companies, the surplus — i.e. over-billing — has been 175 million. Of course, these should be returned to consumers, and they have been returned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u8	Madam President! I also warmly welcome the initiative that has been taken, and it is politically the finest way of putting the cat on the table by the representative of the Parliament of the Coalition Party. The reasons for this were made during the last parliamentary term in the government in which the Left Alliance was also involved. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we had a heated debate on what this means with regard to the one storm in which the damage to private and public property amounted to EUR 6 billion, which happened at the moment. It was then stated in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that we are going to land-caching. A few eyes were closed as to whether there could be other options, such as the need for forest owners to provide an adequate protection zone for landline networks and companies to pay for the cost of harvesting, whether by someone else or by someone else, or to have crisis centres where there are enough aggregates to supply electricity quickly to farms and sparsely populated areas. But all in all, this is what came to be said with the then SDP MP, Mr Kärnä, that we know what is going to happen. And that's what happened, especially when Fortum sold its own networks to an Australian investment company. Prices started to rise, and they have — and now we are constantly justifying this — so that, in view of future investments, we will have to increase the transfer fees so that we can implement the transfer plan so that land-caching is carried out. We have municipalities, urban areas, where almost neighbours are subject to different charges. There are grid areas where a network has already been built. And, ladies and gentlemen of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, you are really looking forward to this wonderfulness when, last season, we made the decision that this capital region should be built in such a way that the renewal of the transmission system is the responsibility of Fingrid and the bill is also paid by Eero Lehti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u9	Madam President! This bill does pay attention to a very important and quite correct issue. Certainly, each of the representatives of this hall has experienced the irritation of people at market events around Finland as they go around why electricity transmission prices are so high. Unfortunately, however, the European Commission has not been very enthusiastic about such regional tax rates, for which there could probably be some justification from time to time. I also understand that Sweden, too, is tightening up the system on the part of the Commission, and it may even be possible that Sweden will have to give it up. This is an idea that I have; perhaps someone will fix it if it is wrong. But then, of course, we must remember how this has come about. This has come about as a result of the decisions taken during the last parliamentary term, which, of course, stem from the fact that storm damage was so great in many places in Finland, and of course it is not reasonable for people to have long periods of time without electricity and modern equipment. However, the bill introduced by the then Minister of Economic Affairs, Vapaavuori, which made it compulsory to scrape these electricity lines all over Finland — areas where not even trees may have grown — may now have been a little too high a bet. Of course, under the leadership of Olli Rehn, Kimmo Tiilikainen, this law has been tried to relax and there have been various ceilings. A model has been put in place to ensure that prices cannot be increased for three years in a row, and that there have also been facilitations for investment, they have been extended. But, of course, the problem still exists in large sparsely populated areas, where the lines are long but there are few people, but do you really need to dig them in the country the same way as they did here in Helsinki a long time ago, and, of course, the payment base is quite different. Then, of course, it would be important for us to consider how this issue can be resolved at national level. That is why, for example, Minister Tiilikainen has already taken the bull out of the horns and, in May, a liquidator has put in charge of this matter, which could still be done after these amendments to the law. Last winter For several days, some even weeks, without electricity, were in the Kainuu. At that point, if business and agriculture are to be without modern products, it is quite clear that they will not be able to survive there. And, of course, there will also be questions about how our electricity networks can be affected from somewhere else. In that sense, this is a national and big issue, and we should think about some more massive solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u10	Mr President! In Finland, which is sparsely populated and has a large, sparsely populated prairie and rural area, we should be able to manage things in such a way that people who live there, if electricity has been drawn there once, must also get electricity there. It cannot be that there will be excessive costs if natural disasters occur and electricity lines break down. A very good thing is what Mrs Myllykoski said here that companies would pay forest owners to beat up these protected areas. I'm sure that would make it easier for you. The second is this aggregate issue which has now been thrown and raised. I'm afraid it would be the case that those grannies and papas in their cabins there on the prairie would have to pay for the aggregate that would produce electricity for them. The situation here is that some kind of responsibility must also be placed on electricity-producing companies. They are making a profit at the moment, as you well know. Yes, those profits must be able to be used to ensure that electricity grids are eligible for such weeks of power cuts will not occur anywhere in the country, either as a result of a blizzard or as a result of a water storm or wind. That the seller has a responsibility, too. And the seller can't just raise the price. We have put this in a rather strange situation in this country: there one can almost say what this electricity is costing and cannot resist when there is no proper competition, there is no means to do so. This is the kind of thing we have to deal with, and before the cold winter comes again, it is, listen, in a hurry. We've got to get some heat. A few years ago, when we built a lot of electric heating houses and the cottages are on electric heating, people freeze as I say — when the frosts come and the heat doesn’t get in the house, it’s not very nice either. In other words, this initiative really is to be welcomed in the sense that it will now be examined and seen through. I hope that the committee will take a good look at this and think through the options, the different options that could be human, reasonable and certain.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u11	Madam President! Today's a good day. Not just because it's Friday and I'm about to be on a sauna shift in East Helsinki, but it's nice to hear some sensible initiatives and speeches across party lines. Mr Eestilä's initiative is excellent, as is Mr Lehde's speech, as are many others here. It is great to see that if we have made some bad decisions in the past with a little bad preparation, we could fix them here across party boundaries. That's why we're all here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u12	Mr President! I also see that this initiative by Mr Eestilä is a good opening-up to the debate on this situation where we are now. The problems involved, particularly as regards the rise in electricity prices and in transmission prices in particular, are well known. Here Mr Myllykoski earlier referred to this big, so-called Stephen storm. I also remember it very well, because in my municipality of Sastamala it caused considerable problems. We had certain areas, such as Kiikoinen, where electricity was out for a week and a half in many economies. Of course, some of them had aggregates. But it also turned out that this reserve staff of these electricity companies had a conflict with each other. It would have worked if only there had been a storm in a small area, but when this storm was widespread throughout southern Finland, it was really only at the height of Oulu, from the north, that a little backup could have been brought. So there was clearly one point where our security of supply had failed. The second was what Mr Lehti pointed out earlier that there were not enough of these aggregates to react quickly. This is, of course, a two-pipe thing. I do think that we should now look critically at whether the rate of land cabling at the moment, which many others have referred to here, is too fast and does it lead to an excessive increase in electricity transmission prices. In that sense, it is really important that, with the initiative of Mr Eestilä, this should be reconsidered, and now that this current law has been in force for a few years, we can genuinely see what can be done about this and how it makes sense to deal with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u13	Next up, Mr Savio. And let me say that we will have to interrupt in three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u14	Mr President! Indeed, the bill under discussion on the amendment of the Act on excise duty on electricity and certain fuels draws attention to a very important issue when it comes to the essential commodity, namely electricity and its price and its price formation. More generally, of course, this subject is related to higher prices of housing and even to excessive costs. Yesterday, Parliament also had a wide-ranging debate on the issue of homelessness and its causes, i.e. the subject is very topical. In addition to this legislative initiative, Parliament must certainly pay greater attention to the increase in the consumer price of electricity and consider the various options for reducing the price of housing. Mr President! This issue raises a lot of questions among citizens about how this electricity transmission price and various taxes, even VAT on top of that, will greatly increase the price of electricity bills, even though the actual energy price has been at a reasonably low level in recent years. This is an issue that must definitely be addressed. The initiative suggests that this level of electricity tax could be addressed regionally, lowered. Perhaps it would be even more justified to reduce the level of electricity tax throughout the country, but all the same, we need to correct this issue urgently. In their previous speeches, Mr Lehti and Mr Vähämäki also raised a completely disproportionate demand for a return of 6,8 %, particularly in relation to the current level of market interest rates, and that is indeed something that needs to be looked at, and the demand for a return must be made much lower. However, this is a very risk-free output, and this high level is no longer justified in any way at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u15	Mr President! The state also has its own soup in another pot. The natural monopoly, namely the electricity network, was first sold to a significant foreign investor by Fortum, who now has a considerable decision-making power on how to negotiate the price of the electricity network, and may be able to influence it. The fact that the government let such a thing out of its hands was, in my opinion, a very bad solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u16	Let us take these two speeches, Mr Viljanen and Mr Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u17	Mr President! Electricity is a necessary commodity for all of us. Despite its necessity, relocation is a monopoly activity, as Mr Lehti has just said here. It is therefore clear that the prices of electricity and its transmission charges should be reasonable. This claim for moderation has now been challenged by a truly large increase in transfer prices. The conditions in the various parts of the country vary greatly, as has already been said many times, but it now appears that there will be more regional dispersion and disparities, even more so than natural conditions. Furthermore, it would appear that at least here in the south, Caruna would have increased prices considerably more than would be necessary to ensure security of electricity supply, such as the representative. My corner here said earlier. The worst thing about increases is that even by saving energy consumers are unable to protect themselves against high-speed electricity bills, because electricity transmission companies have focused on high price increases specifically on monthly electricity charges, i.e. basic charges. Mr Eestilä's initiative would be appropriate if it were to change the errors of the last government term in electricity transmission pricing, for example on the basis of future proposals by Minister Tiilikainen's liquidator, so that the transparency and predictability and reasonableness of electricity transmission operations could be improved without jeopardising the security of electricity supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u18	And last speech today, Mr Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-19-ps-104.u19	Mr President! The Eestilä bill proposes a reduction in the electricity tax, especially in areas where investment needs to be made to improve security of supply. This bill is certainly to be welcomed. The electricity transmission charges are huge. They may be higher than the electricity consumption charge itself and are not understood by our citizens — and neither do they. When electricity bills came in earlier years, if they had risen, it was explained that it has rained too much or it has rained too little. Now the reason is to pull the cables, and of course you have to pull them too. But Mr Lehti raised the point, that is, these famous Caruna shops: why did the state hand over the power of decision to somewhere else than Finland? The price of living today is very expensive, and electricity charges are quite right, let us be frank, absurd, especially in terms of transmission fees.
