ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u1	Riitta Mäkinen, Master of Social Sciences from Jyväskylä, who has become a deputy in the constituency of Central Finland instead of Susanna Huovinen, has presented me with her mandate and has taken office on 15 June 2018. Welcome!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u2	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 2/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 13 June 2018. The amendments are now being discussed. I would ask you to make proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u3	Mr President! I object to Articles 2 and 11 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u4	Mr President! I support Mr Torst's proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u5	Cloud Torsti, supported by Li Andersson, has proposed that Articles 2 and 11 shall be adopted in accordance with objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u6	Mr President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u7	Mr President! I support Mr Savio's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u8	Sami Savio, supported by Ritva Elomaa, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u9	Mr President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u10	Mr President! I support Mr Savio's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u11	Sami Savio, supported by Ritva Elomaa, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u12	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u13	Irade fru talman! I den ox lagmotionen föreslår jag att vallagen ändras så att en av Finlands Europaparlamentariker väljs från landskapet Åland för att kompensera för den behörighet som genom EU-medlemskapet har överförts till unionens kometensområde. Detta skulle genom motionen genomföras så att landskapet Åland skulle utgöra en egen valkrets i Europaparlamentsvalet. Valet skulle förrättas i tillampliga delar i enlighet med vallagens bestemmelser om val av riksdagsledamot i landskapet Ålands valkrets. Avsikten är att lagen tinllampas första gången i det val av ledamöter till Europaparlamentet som hålls år 2019. Genom självstyrelselagen har landskapet Åland ett unikt och långt utvecklat självstyre som innefattar överförd lagstiftnings- och förvaltningsmakt från Finlands riksdag och regering. Då landskapet tillsammans med resten av landet godkände ett inträde i Europeiska unionen överfördes aven en betydande del av denna lagstiftningsmakt till unionen från landskapet. Trots sin unika särställning och denna kometensöverföring har landskapet ändå inte någon egen representation i Europeiska unionens organ. EU erkänner endast lännder som sina medlemmar och därmed är bestemmelserna om dess organ aven uppbyggda runt medlemsstaterna. Självstyrda områden inom unionens medlemsstater kan inte tilldelas representation i unionens organ i eget namn, utan endast ifall medlemsstaterna internet besluter att fördela makten så. Det auri gäller bland you give medlemsstaternas mandatfördelning i Europaparlamentet. Vista självstyrande områden inom unionen har tidigare erhållit egna ledamotsplatser i Europaparlamentet. Som exempel beslöt Danmark att överföra ett av sina mandat i Europaparlamentet åt det självstyrda Grönland. Det självstyrda området har sedermera utträtt ur unionen men principbeslutet består som prejudikat. Även Belgien fish i samband med en tidigare utviggning av unionen behålla ett extra mandat med motiveringen att detta tilldelas landsets tänspråkiga minoritet, som proportionellt med sitt befolkningstal kan jämföras med Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u14	Mr President! It is, of course, right and reasonable for the representative to represent his constituents and defend their interests, but in this bill of law, Mr Löfström — if it is allowed to be said — is a little over-representative of their interests. It is now the case that the seats of representatives should be divided as evenly as possible on the basis of the population base in order to ensure equality between voters and votes throughout the country. Although it is somewhat questionable that these seats in the European Parliament, which have been opened up with Brexit, were not completely removed but were redistributed, it still has the positive side of getting that 14th seat. Finland is currently slightly under-represented in the European Parliament, and this would be corrected with this 14th seat. Now, for Åland, this principle of equal distribution is reasonably achieved in the Parliamentary elections when Åland has one seat in 200. It is more or less proportionate to the population base. But then if the Åland Islands were to have one seat in the European Parliament of 14 as proposed, this would result, mathematically speaking, in some 14 times over-representation in the Åland Islands. It is therefore unfortunately impossible to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u15	Madam President! Once again, Mr Mats Löfström brings us here in the Chamber of Parliament a strong Åland voice and takes a good stand for his own constituency and wakes us up here, so to speak, on the continent's side, to see these particular issues of theirs. The idea and the very strict facts that Åland's ability to influence the decision-making of the European Union is not sufficient must be taken seriously, and ways must be found to ensure that Ålanders, as an autonomous region and a group of people with autonomy, have sufficient influence in the EU. However, it must be said that this place, which is meant by the legislative initiative, would have a very negative impact on the proportionality of the European elections. However, we have two major factors in the electoral system, which should always be taken into account: regional representativeness would certainly be strengthened here, but then proportionality would be reduced. So maybe now we need to think more about other ways than this place of our own. Of course, if we can get a lot more seats in the European Parliament, why not not afterwards. However, I would like to raise a slightly broader debate here on why we could not have constituencies in the European elections. This is a very exceptional case. We have constituencies in all other Finnish elections, whether a municipality or a constituency of our own, but in the EU elections the whole country is one constituency, and that does cause serious problems. The campaigns are very expensive. This makes it difficult for women, young people to pass, and I claim that it also reduces voting turnout. I do not support the fact that there are as many constituencies in the EU elections as there are in the parliamentary elections, but I think that three or four constituencies could be quite justified, and that is the role of Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u16	Madam President! Representative Löfström really deserves appreciation for how he speaks on behalf of Åland and in a fine way represents Åland here in Parliament and in public. The position of Åland's self-government should be respected, but I do not think that these arguments here are sufficient to disband Finland's unified constituency. It should be borne in mind that, compared to the fact that these European Parliament seats now envisaged would be shared by the whole of Finland, this would mean that the threshold would then be higher. At present we have smaller political groups, such as the Christian Democrats, whose support is greater than the people of Åland but who do not have their own representatives in the European Parliament. For this reason, such a change could also cause a lot of negative mood in continental Finland if the Åland Islands were to be earmarked with a reasonably small population base this one place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u17	Mr President! Jag tycker det är mycket viktigt att vi har den ox lagmotionen ox i plenum. Tack till ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u18	Madam President! In time, I visited Åland with the Constitutional Committee, and I must say and admit that as a continental national, this is the first time that I have visited Åland. Yes, the work that the provincial government does there was impressed by and clearly the knowledge with which the province’s affairs are handled. At the time, we also had a good discussion about relations and the future between Åland and the Kingdom. When you look at this bill, as has been said here, there is indeed a whole country's constituency in the European elections. We do not have quotas, in a way, for any province or for any group of people, to which Mr Räsänen referred in his own speech. Nor are there quotas for any minority groups in this respect in these elections. In practice, I believe that we only have to run for election on the list and then apply for support for the whole country on its own line and for the candidate. Yes, it is important to hear the views of Åland. There are already ways in which Åland is involved in European decision-making at the moment, but it is also, of course, important to hear views through the parties. But the idea that quotas should be allocated to Åland, even though it seems now that one more place for Finland in the European Parliament is not realistic or supported, in my view, and the blue cannot support that view in the government. I found it somewhat regrettable that Prime Minister Sipilä, when he was asked about this in February, kind of gave him a leash and said that this could be considered. Even then, I thought that, unfortunately, this could not even be considered. After the new division, if a new mep comes to Finland now, one mep is equivalent to 39,000 people in Finland, and then compares the 30,000 inhabitants of Åland — all credit to each of them — then the imbalance is clear, so I cannot see that such quota is going to take place. Instead, what Mr Kurvinen said about this constituency division in the European elections in general is worth considering.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u19	Irade fru talman! Ledamot Mäkelä, som nu har gått ärifrån, tog också upp det som flera andra ledamöter tog upp gällande befolkningsgrunden och att befolkningen på Åland är 30000 och motsvarar en Europaparlamentsplats medan det i hela Finland är 300000. Det ox kan man också Jämföra med många andra lännder. Till exempel i Frankrike är det 800000 invånare för en Europaparlamentsplats, så det är klart att man kan diskutera befolkningsgrunden, men också contra den constitutionella rätten för Åland som ett självstyrt område att ha en egen plats, på samma sätt som Grönland Hade en egen plats i kungariket Danmark och de tysktalande regionerna i Belgien, med samma befolkningsation som Åland i Finland, en har egen plats. Jag tackar ledamot Kurvinen för att han noterar behovet av att stärka Ålands påverkningsmöjligheter i EU. Till ledamot Räsänen: att KD inte har en plats har också att göra med befolkningsgrunden, vill man se det är från ett befolkningsgrundsperspectiv eller ett constitutionellt perspectiveiv. Grundlagsutskottet har konstateat att det är sista hand är en politisk fråga. Till ledamot Mikkonen: jack för stödet för att detta diskuteras. Detta diskuterades också i en lagmotion år 1994 av Gunnar Jansson, Ålands dåvarande ledamot, och i samband med Finlands EU-medlemskap. Också i en lagmotion år 2006 av Roger Jansson och en framstalla av lagtinget år 2007, i sambad med Lisbonfördraget, har samma fråga diskuterats. Frågan blir aktuell nu igen effectsom toppmötet 28-29 juni närmar sig, där Finland kommer att få en plats till, och jag vet också att lagtinget kommenter att göra en framstalla till ricksdage i den rai frågan. Till sist tog också ledamot Mikkonen upp regionalkommittén, men den har inte några reella påverkningsmöjligheter i EU. Det är en fin plats, men den har inte någon formell beslutandemakt. Tack ännu till ledamot Mikkonen för att Hon Konstaterar att det rai inte bara är en åländsk fråga utan en fråga för hela landet. Tack också till ledamot Elo för att han deltog i debatten, aven om vi inte är av samma åsikt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-15-ps-67.u20	Värderade fru talman! Det är mycket positivt att ricksdagsledamot Löfström har lyft fram den är frågan i en lagmotion så att vi får diskutera den, för nu är rätt momentum att ta ställning till den är frågan.
