ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u1	As previously announced, Mr Paavo Väyrynen has returned to the House today. Welcome!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u2	The fourth item on the agenda is the topical debate on the challenges of international multilateral cooperation. After a ten-minute speech by the Government, I will give a two-minute reply to each representative of the parliamentary group. I will then give the two-minute response in the order in which I am considering it. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. A maximum of 1.5 hours is set aside for the discussion. The first speaker is Minister Soini, 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u3	Madam President! The security and well-being of our country depend fundamentally on and respect for the rules of the game common to all. The system is now being challenged from many directions. It is being undermined both by the changing powers of the states and by the development of great power dynamics. After World War II, the United Nations was founded in a kind of “never-ending ” spirit. Human rights standards, the economic system and a wide network of agreements have proved to be relatively sustainable, but there are problems. The structural imbalance in the system has been highlighted by the prosperity of developing countries. The permanent members of the Security Council follow the international rules they have created selectively. In terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the picture is mixed. In many respects there has been a decline. Several countries are challenging the basics of the system. The development of the UN into a complex and heavy rowing machine has weakened its effectiveness. Misuses in the field do not make the situation any easier. Economic integration has progressed, but well-being is not evenly distributed. The change has been great, and many have fallen from the sled. This has brought new movement and unexpected election results, both in the West and elsewhere. Madam President! Great power politics has returned. This has a strong impact on the functioning of the international rule-based system. Power politics and national interests are evident in the activities of the United States, China and Russia. Let me just say a few words about this. The withdrawal of the United States from certain international agreements and arrangements and the questioning of the multilateral system have been a tough part of Europe. The West's cooperation seems to be getting further bruises from the meeting. This has given room, above all, to China, but also to Russia. The European Union is now expected to play a stronger role, and its unity is emphasised. The current US administration has increasingly resorted to unilateral trade measures. The United States considers that it is better able to pursue its own interests bilaterally. The attitude towards multilateral cooperation has become very critical. The new US trade policy is likely to have a major impact on global economic growth and the future of open trade. The exit from the Paris climate agreement and the withdrawal from Iran's nuclear programme agreement are also indications of the Americas first policy. The United States is also more sceptical about the human rights treaties and the UN human rights bodies. Both China and Russia are traditionally opposed to the universality of human rights and are now increasingly seeking to create an alternative interpretation of human rights and democracy. It is important for the EU to play an active role in this area. It is essential for Finland that the United States continues to be committed to European security. There are many disincentives to America first, from the administration and from Congress, and the picture of the United States is not clear. After all, this is largely a system built under the auspices of the United States itself. It is therefore important to continue the dialogue with the United States in order to avoid damaging Western cooperation. It won't be easy, but diplomacy isn't just global. The problems of Western cooperation currently benefit Russia in particular. Opened game mode has been used in Syria, for example. Russia is currently seen as a bigger player in world politics than its real resource base would justify. At the same time, Russia uses non-military resources to achieve its goals in a new way. In particular, consideration will be given to responding to hybrid operations and to the impact of information, although it should not be thought that these means would only be used by Russia. Four years ago, Russia illegally joined the Crimea that belonged to Ukraine. It is apparently the first time since World War II that a state is seeking to transfer its own recognized international borders by force. At times, Russia takes a rather specific view of the efforts of the international community to clarify matters. It is important that we do not start to question the existence of information and facts in the Western countries more generally. China is critical of the international system which it considers to be the creation of the Western powers. China wants to shape the international order more in line with its increased weight, interests and views. China is doing this, among other things, through its own new initiatives and by creating new concepts from its own perspective. China is also able to mobilise support for its objectives through economic means. Finland also needs to pay more and more attention to this development. Madam President! An important basic pillar of Finnish security is a functioning rule-based system that aims to prevent crises and resolve them through peaceful mechanisms. The collapse of the system and consequently the unpredictable and unregulated use of force would seriously undermine Finland's security. The confrontation between the superpowers and the power policy have already made the situation picture in our neighbourhood many shades darker. Nuclear intimidation, even the first use of nuclear weapons, has again been on the agenda. General uncertainty has increased. The major powers have so far complied with the nuclear agreements, such as the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the agreement between the United States and Russia on the restriction of strategic weapons. Informal initiatives, such as Finland's programme to combat nuclear terrorism, have been successful in increasing nuclear safety. We have been shocked to witness violations of the CWC by a chemical weapon. However, the main victims are ordinary weapons. I am pleased that Finland has played a strong role in the implementation of the Arms Trade Treaty. Finland is also at the forefront of the search for answers to the challenges posed by new technologies, such as autonomous weapon systems. Madam President! Global security threats require global solutions. Poverty and inequality, uncontrolled migration, climate and terrorism are challenges that no country alone can solve. International cooperation is needed. Defending and promoting an international rule-based system is one of the strategic priorities of Finland’s foreign and security policy. In order to achieve this, the unity of the European Union is essential. But we must see that there is also life outside the EU. Strengthening the international rule-based system requires cooperation with similar partners in Asia, Latin America and Africa. Just last week, I talked to several of my African colleagues about strengthening cooperation in support of the UN and the rule-based system. Many were concerned about the actions of both the United States and China; many wanted the EU to play a leading role. We must also continue the dialogue with NGOs, businesses and other actors. They have the expertise and enthusiasm to act for the climate and human rights as well as to combat hybrid threats. The UN is the backbone of an international rule-based system. The European Union and Finland must increasingly support and reform the UN. European organisations, such as the OSCE and the Council of Europe, also have an important role to play. Mr President! Finally, the Finnish Parliament and its representatives and parliamentary parties have impressive international cooperation mechanisms and networks. These are important for strengthening the international system. International meetings of parliamentarians in various organisations and conferences provide an opportunity for dialogue and exchange of ideas. The international rule-based system is worth defending and, Madam President, Finland is at the forefront of defending it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u4	The next item is the speeches by the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u5	Mr President! In these times, it is said of world politics that it is the power that speaks. It is a force that speaks, which means that the power policy, if taken far, has taken on contract-based, rule-based necklocks. It can also be said that, in a certain way, the power policy is being highlighted at the moment in three. The rules of the game are the safety of the little ones. The rules of the game are for everyone, but they are specifically for the small. Contract-based cooperation is needed for a great many reasons, which the Secretary of State has just explained very well, not least in order to curb climate change, to control and defeat terrorism, to end wars or to eradicate poverty, and this will require the strength of the greats. It is not enough for the smaller ones and everyone else to be active in this matter, but rather for the strength of the greats. Reference was made here to the role of the European Union. It can be the voice of responsibility and reason, and it should focus on big things when it is a peace project. Even now, it must be a global peace project and, in order for it to be, it must safeguard its ability to act and its unity, and it now has its own chance in this situation. And when it comes to the EU, the role of the OSCE and the important role of the Council of Europe in upholding rule-basedness must also be included in the same breath. Mr President! What is essential is that even in this situation, we do not give up. When we believe in contractualism, we Finns and others must continue to act. Don't give up. This also requires patience in defending this important principle and in defending the UN. To conclude, when it was said earlier that it is the power that speaks, it will be replaced by saying: it is a common responsibility that bears and saves.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u6	Madam President! The political position of the European Union has deteriorated worryingly in a short period of time. Until last spring, concerns were expressed in our neighbourhood, mainly about the increase in tension in the Baltic Sea. The transatlantic relationship between the United States and the EU is now rapidly under crisis. At the recent G7 meeting, Chancellor Merkel described the situation aptly: President Trump's actions were a shocking and depressing experience. Now we finally have proof that Trump does not care about his allies, and only the United States is important to him. For Europe, this means even more clearly that European countries must together defend European principles and values without having confidence in the support of the United States. We must ask ourselves what matters we now have to deal with alone. — I have quoted to this extent, because this is what is at stake. The European Union is now being challenged in two directions: the East and the West. It is clear that the confusion of the West gives Russia many advantages that it consistently exploits. Merkel’s words quoted above are hard text, and it is important to note that we are not outsiders. We are 100 % in the same European boat in the position of a rower. Finland has a twofold problem. In trade, foreign and security policy, we are highly dependent on good cooperation with the United States. Therefore, when we must always be in a long run in good relations with the United States and see over temporary problems, we must also be determined and loyal to the common objectives of the EU. As an exceptionally dependent country on foreign trade, we need, among other things, a functioning WTO, free trade, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, a common security policy and a continuation of Iran's nuclear restriction agreement. It is sad that right now, when the EU should be strong and united outwards, it is torn up by the Brexis, the refugee issue and the internal, divisive, values-related problems in Eastern Europe. Europe now urgently needs mutual loyalty and strong, thoughtful leadership. In this activity, Finland must play a key role. We're not out. We're in.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u7	Mr President! The disregard of states for the rules of the post-war multilateral rule-based cooperation gives rise to serious concerns. The alternatives to this cooperation, which brought prosperity, stability and security to the world, are either anarchy or a military or economically stronger attempt to dictate the order best suited to itself, and these roads lead to conflict, war and human suffering. In a world of growing interdependence, nuclear power does not achieve lasting benefits at the expense of others, but only in this multilateral cooperation. In this situation, it is important that Finland and the European Union, which are now subject to high expectations, act in every way in favour of rule-based cooperation and deal with and sanction its violations in the same way, whether it is the occupation of Crimea, Compliance with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, violation of WTO rules or respect for Iran's nuclear agreement as confirmed by the UN Security Council. Finland too must be prepared for the problems of power and dictation policy, but we must not just be prepared. We must also make full use of our potential to contribute to stabilising international development through rule-based cooperation and also through our own efforts as a peace broker and a respected crisis management expert committed to human rights and the rule of law, and, hopefully, once again as a fully-fledged tool for development cooperation. Finland’s security and influence are best promoted as we continue as a partner in close international cooperation as a militarily non-aligned country. Climate change, biodiversity loss or global concentration of wealth that threatens the future of all mankind
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u8	Madam President! Africa is a question of the fate of Europe, as Mr Soini has said. African population growth is the fastest in the world, but social development has not kept pace with this population growth. Youth unemployment in particular is high, and for many young Africans, Europe is dreaming. One remedy to boost economic growth in Africa is economic integration, specifically among the countries of the African Union. Removing customs duties would create an internal market the size of a continent. The establishment of a free trade area in Africa has now taken promising first steps. But perhaps a little unexpectedly, according to studies, as African wealth increases, the pressure also increases to move towards Europe, because such a move in itself requires money. In African countries, good governance, a more balanced distribution of income and increased vocational training are needed. With these provisions, Finland also eventually rose from developing country to industrial state. Mr President! Another very important foreign policy issue for Finland is, of course, Russia. Recently, there have been calls from some European extremist right-wing parties for the lifting of Russian sanctions. These same parties are believed to receive funding from Russia. The Blues consider such activities to be contrary to Finland’s national interest and also to be contrary to security. In Finland, all parties must insist that joint sanctions are not withdrawn until Russia has shown progress in the steps towards peace in Ukraine. The concerns and irritation of the Finns who have suffered for their part from sanctions should not become unnecessary and meaningless. Each country must comply with the common rules of the game. In the opinion of the Blues, Finland therefore needs rule-based multilateral international cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u9	Mr President! International multilateral cooperation, and especially development aid, is a challenge. Some might even say that this is a non-developmental money, for the results often do not speak for themselves. Matti Kääriäinen, a foreign affairs adviser and retired ambassador, has written a book on the subject The Curse of Development Assistance. If you do not believe us, hear even a person who has studied the results on the spot. He says that development aid may even increase misery. I can sign it myself for more than ten years as a resident of the developing world. This year, less than EUR 170 million will be allocated for multilateral development assistance. Globally, development aid has been pumped into trillions. Have you noticed any significant developments?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u12	Mr President! Today, in the aftermath of Singapore, it is easy to share the joy of people on the Korean Peninsula who have high expectations of this situation. Of course, the South Koreans and also the North Koreans have the idea of combining the Koreas in the air. Above all, it is important to get the Korean Peninsula free of nuclear weapons, to bring families together and to re-establish human rights and civil liberties. I hope this happens there. At the same time, two major powers, Russia and the USA, have both, through their own actions, broken the international order, Russia, of course, by breaking the international security policy book for Ukraine, the USA by breaking out of the climate agreement and by breaking the rules of trade in the world. It is quite clear that small countries cannot survive in a world like this that operates without rules. That's when the big ones talk. Of course, Finland's interest, the interests of countries like us, is to take care of international rules of play. I hope I agree with the Foreign Minister that the EU in this situation is not part of the problem but part of the solution. We need to strengthen our own participation in the EU, create a system from the EU that supports the rules of international trade, which deals with climate issues and which manages the environment in the world. It can deal with refugee issues. It may be more active in Africa, to which reference has already been made. We should also, as the Minister said, take care of our own development policy and support for the UN. It is very embarrassing today to move around as a Finnish when we talk about our development effort, because it has been too low in recent years. We need to fix that. Finally, when you look at a situation where, as it were, the rules of the game in the world are changing and the blocks are moving, this is a dangerous situation for a small player such as Finland, but it may also give new opportunities to create new partnerships, to work together with African countries, for example, to look in the world for those who want to build this international order on the basis of the rules of the game, and this creative moment should also be exploited by a small, agile country such as Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u13	Mr President! In the era of rapid climate change, spreading conflicts, large migrations, ocean pollution, global production chains and tax havens, it is clear that the fates of earth’s countries and people are intertwined. We're all in the same boat eventually. Global problems require global solutions, multilateral international cooperation. Multilateral cooperation must be genuinely multilateral, not dictated to the rest of the world by Western industrialised countries. For example, global taxation issues should be dealt with multilaterally within the UN, not just between industrialised countries. Regrettably, the United Nations Security Council, dominated by the major powers, has been unable to resolve conflicts. The UN system is needed, but it needs to work better than it does at present. Despite the problems, we must increasingly defend the world order of reconciliation and cooperation, because there is no other way in the end. We must pursue the cause of humanity as a whole and not just the short-term selfishness of individual countries. Mr President! The situation in the Middle East is very tense. Trump's recent decisions to withdraw from Iran's nuclear treaty and to transfer the embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem have increased tensions in the Middle East. Finland, the EU and the entire international community should now make every effort to alleviate the situation in the Middle East. It is important that the rest of the international community adhere to the Iranian nuclear treaty. Finland and the EU must support the end of the illegal occupation of Israel in Palestine and the genuine peace process between countries. Furthermore, Turkey's attack on the Kurds in northern Syria must be clearly condemned. Finland must also comply with international agreements and put an end to all arms trade in warring and violating human rights countries, such as Saudi Arabia and the Arab Emirates, which are fighting a bloody war in Yemen. Mr President! Finland must be a doctor of the world, not an arms dealer. The doctor’s toolkit also includes development cooperation, and the level of funding must be raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u14	Mr President, värderade talman! The old saying is that the chain is as strong as its weakest link, and this applies quite well in the international community and in cooperation. Over the years, the countries of the world have agreed on a number of rules and rules to make world spending and cooperation more stable, more proactive and more ambitious. But if, one day, one major body, based on purely national considerations and a policy of force, decides to act contrary to the agreed rules, the whole basis for cooperation is waning. This is exactly what has happened when Russia decided in 2014 to hijack the Crimean peninsula for itself, and this is what happened when the US Presidential Authority resigned from the Paris climate agreement and recently decided to impose import duties on Europe. We certainly do not need a trade war and squabbling in this already confused world situation. Let us hope that at least last night's summit in Singapore will bring about relaxation and even a lasting positive atmosphere. There are also bubbles within the EU. Some Member States, such as Poland and Hungary, are challenging the agreed core values of the Union. Brexit, on the other hand, is the result of a public opinion likely to be influenced by outsiders — a symptom of unscrupulousness, too. The risk of having a hybrid effect should not be underestimated in Finland either. This is what scientists have warned us about. We are about to have three elections here in Finland — even if the need for a hybrid influence on purely provincial elections seems increasingly unlikely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u15	Mr President! Our international policy environment has become more unstable. The current international order and free trade cannot be taken for granted. And when Finland is an export-driven country, it is also important for us to defend free and fair trade, with values linked to democracy, human rights, human dignity and the rule of law. The cruel and widespread violations of human rights in North Korea, including restrictions on freedom of expression and religion, were left behind in today's summit. However, the objective of nuclear disarmament is a necessary starting point for peace development and, hopefully, will also open the door to the examination of human rights. What a president. As far as Trump's policy is concerned, I do not think there is any reason for cynicism today, but we must thank him for at least trying to open up the disaster site on the Korean peninsula. While looking at South-East Asia, it is worth remembering the smoking crisis in the Middle East. Relations between Israel and Iran have become tense due to the Syrian war. Iran's financing and armed support for terrorist organisations in the Middle East are a constant threat to the region. Just a few days ago, Iran's top leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, tweeted that Israel is a malignant tumor in the West Asian region and should be removed and eradicated. In the Middle East, Finland’s central target has been the Palestinian education system, which is a good target, but unfortunately even new schoolbooks contribute to martyrdom and war, as the prestigious IMPACT Research Centre has been concerned about the radicalisation of the entire Palestinian Authority’s curriculum. I think it would be important for the Finnish Government to assess what the Finnish policy is on this issue. We are sending out a very contradictory signal if it turns out that we, as a state, are involved in supporting jihadism and hate speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u16	Now the Prime Minister has asked for the floor — no more than three minutes. Then we'll start the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u17	Mr President! The UTP report two years ago stated that the change in our operating environment will continue to be strong both in the neighbourhood and globally. The changed operating environment was found to be characterised by the speed and unpredictability of change. It is good that today we are also discussing this situation here in the Chamber. Our international position is based on our ability to understand our changing operating environment. Foreign Minister Soini said that power policy and selfish national interests have returned. General uncertainty and unpredictability have increased. The cornerstones of international trust are global institutions, rules and compliance with agreements. They're all getting weaker now. It is important for Finland that we return soon to respect each other's statutory cooperation and multilateral trade, in accordance with the agreed rules of the game, in consultation and in solving problems together. The absolute advantage of Finland is to build and strengthen an international rule-based system. Mr President! The change in the operating environment, including the activities of Russia and the United States, has also put pressure on the activities of the European Union. Especially now, when the world is a little wobbly around us, the EU should take its place, remain united and strong. The EU must not become a spectator of world politics. The European Union also has an active role to play. This should continue to be the case. As an active and participating Member State of the Union, we are also a bigger player than we are at international level. The EU must be an uncompromising defender of free trade. We must continue to work actively with the various regions. New trade agreements must be concluded and the ongoing negotiations completed. We must convince both our internal and external partners that protectionism and roll-in do not contribute to our common goals. The same applies to climate policy. The EU must also take on an unambiguous role as a leader in climate and environmental policy, as well as as as a defender of human rights and democracy. We don't have a choice. So, what does Finland do? We have consistently stressed the importance of an international rule-based system and its strengthening at bilateral meetings as well as at EU meetings. We will continue this activity with determination and active action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u18	The possibility of replying is now being opened. I'll give you two minutes of answers. I ask you to reserve them by pressing the V button and standing up. Mr Vanhanen will begin these replies. - Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u19	Mr President! I think that this debate shows that, in a very common sense, we are aware of the challenge that we are facing at the moment. Representative Sarkkinen made a long list of global challenges that would require agreements and joint organisations. At the same time, it is, frankly, a sad paradox that we have states and even more political forces that undervalue these rules are prepared to break them, want to weaken international organisations. At the same time, we have a lot of political forces around the world and also across Europe who are seeking national domestic political power, frankly by inciting people, by talking about sovereignty and the pursuit of national interests. The combination of what these large countries are doing at the moment is indeed an extremely difficult equation. Sometimes in the face of such an arrangement, of course, you have to ask what we do to answer this. After all, it is time for simplified and simple answers. The first is that we ourselves must respect and defend strictly the agreements in which we are involved — sometimes it makes you want to say it with a good look, even though I know that it causes irritation to many people. But if agreements are broken, then every violation is a permission slip for others to continue to break it, and that is where the cycle begins. Secondly, as the Prime Minister has just said, we must strongly defend the international rule-based system in international cooperation. We must also say to our own people that we are prepared to compromise sovereignty when we negotiate international agreements. Then, in the area of their agreements, we will give up a little bit of sovereignty, but we will be counterbalanced by a more stable operating environment and common rules of play, and that benefit will be much greater than the part we give up at the joint table to resolve. This is the big question that really determines the attitude we take towards resolving international issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u20	Mr President! Representative Vanhanen spoke wise words just now, important observations. But I want to address one detail that I think is really important from the point of view of the coming decades, and that is the impact of climate change and demographic change on Africa. I was very pleased when Mrs Elo raised this issue. At present, population forecasts indicate that in the 2050s, Africa is facing a situation of 2.5 billion people instead of the current 1.2 billion. There will then be more than one billion people under the age of 25 on that continent. If we do not now start to do something about these things, the situation in Africa, we are facing people's escape from a climate of climate change, from a demographic region. There is a need for clean water; there is a need for food; there is a need for training; there is a need for jobs; there is a need for infrastructure in general. It would be interesting to hear, Prime Minister. Sipilä, your point of view on whether European cooperation could concentrate. After all, there is a total amount of EUR 55 billion per year spent on development aid by the Member States and the Commission. Is it time to focus on coordinating this aid to Africans, as it were, as a European Marshall aid to Africa? We too have had help, and now should be the time to strengthen the future of that continent. I think it would be a good thing for a strong European Union to get started on this issue, and I think that Finland should be a strong influence in this debate in order to move these issues forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u21	Mr President! Looking east, looking west, you can’t help but wonder if a small country has a terrible role to play in such turmoil, other than reacting to what is happening in the field of big forces. By taking this kind of bystander's attitude in the light of Finland's story, in the light of developments since the Second World War, we would not have had room for manoeuvre and would not have secured the strengthening of our international position. In this way, although power policy is currently challenging multilateralism and the world of interdependence and international institutions, there is a particularly strong need for us to persist in pursuing an active foreign policy on various measures. Finland has a proactive role in international politics — the President of the Republic is a good example of this — and even in an international and European context, it has a high profile in its activity. Let us look at the Baltic Sea, see what will happen in the Arctic. It may have the keys to bigger solutions on our hands. And so on, not to mention Ukraine in any way. It is important that Finland can play an active role, a positive role, a constructive place in international politics, while, of course, ensuring that the role of small people is safeguarded. Of this, Finland has excellent evidence in its accounts at the moment and also has at its disposal the views for tomorrow, on which Finland's position will also be taken care of, while promoting positive international development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u22	Madam President! Yes, there is a strange, positively strange thing about Asia. There are Presidents Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un telling the world, as it may be today, perhaps the new normal, i.e. past the two leaders of the old-fashioned models only, at most the interpreters are there, and I would like to ask: what is our government's position on this, is this perhaps one of the future lines, that perhaps in the future the leaders of the former organizational models will negotiate with each other and then some of them will be left just to the press and will not be able to influence? Then this development aid, which came out of this speech by Mr Raatikainen: I have a slight disagreement when Mr Raatikainen said that it has caused nothing. Yes, it has mattered. It has greatly reduced child mortality in African countries. But here has been the big paradox that when no structures have changed at the same time, it has then led to more and more of these development aids in the next generation, and this population growth in the world — which has come to this many speeches — is the greatest factor causing them. The cause of climate change, the cause of many wars, the cause of famine, is this huge population growth, which is precisely there in African countries and in the Middle East. That is what I would like to ask our Foreign Minister Soin: Now that we have presented this development aid model, what have the Finns had for many years, how do you feel about it today? Is there a key to solving this problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u23	Madam President! I believe that Mr Soini used perhaps one of his best speeches today, which I myself have witnessed. I think Soini also well described the ground currents, the big currents that are reflected in this change in the international rule-based system: transatlantic change, US action, Trump's action, Brexit, Russia's power policy, and China's kind of expansive economic policy, which is also a power policy. Once the international rule-based system has been challenged, the question is: how is Finland best to safeguard it? Today, excellent speeches have been made throughout this Chamber. Perhaps I should now like to ask one of the tools of the work, specifically development cooperation and the ways in which the root causes of conflict can be removed from the various conflict areas, to remove the pushing causes, which are why people are forced to leave their homes and perhaps to flee from one continent to another. Now that there has been a debate on increased emissions auction revenues in the context of the amending budget, I would like to ask the government ministers: could these increased emissions auction revenues be used more and more for development cooperation and international climate finance? Secondly, when we talk here about the increase in the population, does not Mr Soin also think that the most effective way to ensure the right of girls and women to self-determination, to safeguard sexual and reproductive health? Is that not one of the best ways to manage demographic trends?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u24	Madam President! I remember when I began my job as a Member of Parliament in this house 15 years ago, when there was quite a wide-ranging perception that the market economy is also spreading Western values, the rule of law, democracy, human rights and so on in the world. Now that I look after 15 years, I regret to say that this has not happened — even if we look at China, we look at the development of Russia, but we also look at today's United States, our central transatlantic ally, who is also today seriously questioning these Western values. A number of colleagues have said that the great power policy today emphasises the use of force, and although it must be said that the first news of today's Presidents meeting It is true that Asia is positive, yet I feel strongly that the world cannot be built only on bilateral deals between the major powers, but it requires rule-based multilateral cooperation, and it is, of course, as many people here have said, also in the interests of a small country, like Finland. Mr President! For us, the central framework for action on multilateral rule-based cooperation is, of course, the European Union. It is very sad that, in this situation, when Europe has a place for a thousand dollars to raise its profile, for example, as a solution to the Middle East crisis or as a supporter of Africa's development, we are internally so divided. If I look only at the United States' actions in the Middle East, for example — President Trump's decision to transfer the delegation to Jerusalem or to withdraw from the Iranian agreement — this would now give Europe a completely new opportunity to raise the profile also as an international, global player if it were able to do so. I therefore see that next year's Finnish Presidency of the European Union will also enable us to build a stronger, unified global player from the European Union, and I hope that Finland will take this opportunity to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u25	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä said that the European Union must make a strong contribution to human rights and democracy. I fully agree with that. At the same time, it is extremely problematic that the EU Member States, Poland and Hungary, take the lead in violating these fundamental principles of the EU, and if we move forward throughout the world with democracy, human rights and freedom of expression, it will be very difficult to move them forward if, at the same time, the countries in our own organisation are violating these values. On the other hand, if one considers that the EU has concluded a refugee agreement with Turkey, for example, and Turkey's action against human rights and democracy — how the Kurds are attacked and bombed and killed in both their own country and Syria — this cannot be tolerated. The Committee on Foreign Affairs visited London and we also met with the Foreign Affairs Committee in the upper room, and I asked the lords how they saw NATO's role in this: should NATO not react when NATO's member countries, Poland, Hungary and Turkey, violate human rights and fundamental principles? For a while they looked surprised and said that NATO was not an organization founded to promote these fundamental values. Portugal, Greece and Turkey joined NATO and were dictatorships then. So NATO is not a community of Western democratic states, was the message of lords. Mr President! As Mr Vanhanen, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, said, international agreements must be respected. But in the same way we must follow the principles we have, and then we cannot, for example, trade arms with Saudi Arabia or the Arab Emirates or buy military equipment from Israel. They too are at war with these principles of ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u26	At this stage, I will give three replies, followed by Minister Estonian, and after that I will continue. These three people are Biaudet, Essayah and Huovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u27	Mr President! I would like to say President, but I say President. — Hans Rosling has written an interesting book last year, which I very much recommend to all these cynics who have thought that development aid or international cooperation has not made any progress. Indeed, a very large number of countries have moved from extreme poverty to much more middle-stage livelihoods, and a large number of people are involved in education and work, and I think that is an excellent indication that we also need to invest in development and international cooperation, not just in trade. Mr Vanhanen said here very wisely that we must respect these international agreements ourselves. When we think that such a rule-based world is something that is also safe for us, much more should be invested in this international cooperation. I am not only talking about development cooperation, that too, and in substance, but also about our knowledge and our human resources being able to invest more in various international organisations. This is absolutely necessary if we are to be such a worthy player, both within the EU and globally, alongside Norway and Sweden, for example. It may be said that there are many agreements that Finland may not have been so strict in complying with — we are talking about human rights agreements in particular, and perhaps we have taken it a little too obvious that we are so good at respecting these human rights agreements — but it is worth investing in this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u28	Madam President! Promoting an international rule-based system is one of the pillars of Finnish security policy, and the UN system is then one of its key actors. However, there is room for improvement in the structure of that world organisation and also in the way in which it works, just as the Foreign Minister said here in his speech. The paralysis of the Security Council and the inability to make decisions in a humanitarian disaster such as Syria is truly sad. The transformation of UN sub-organisations such as the Human Rights Council and UNESCO into a platform for unilateral resolutions condemning Israel also undermines the credibility of the work of these actors. It must be noted that Finland's own voting behaviour, including in the World Heritage Committee, which concerned the West Wall as a sacred target of the Jews, which was wanted to be banned, does not deserve clean papers. Finland abstained from voting in that vote. Development aid cuts do not in any way improve Finland's credibility as a UN actor. But, as has been pointed out here, there will certainly be greater pressure in the future on climate refugees and migration. Then we will have to assess the UN Refugee Treaty and its functioning in this time period. The President of the Republic, at the opening of the parliament, carefully wanted to open this up. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: would it be possible for Finland to push for this refugee agreement to start thinking about how it could be done in this day and in this time to make it suitable for today's crises and possibly for future major climate refugee flows and also for the increase in migration?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u29	Madam President! My 12-year-old son said a few years ago: ‘The world has become a scary place. “ There were a lot of terrorist attacks that summer. Later that same year, I listened to Esko Valtaoja’s lecture, which began with the history of mankind and went through how we have come to this end, saying that we have never been so well. Both my sons and Valtaoja are right. Much progress has been made, people have been raised from extreme poverty, children have been trained, infectious diseases have been eradicated. These achievements are supposed to bind humanity more closely and encourage mankind to continue along this same path, but at least in part it seems to have been different. Uncertainty has increased, crises have prolonged and become more complex, and human rights violations have not been brought under control either. We talk a lot about war. Who would speak of peace? In order to prevent crises, we need a long-term development policy, and the cuts made this period to this work have been regrettable and also undermining Finland's international position. We need to talk about Africa, but at the same time we need to strengthen the resources for development rather than cut them. UN climate policy and Agenda 2030 work need our support. In order to be able to support the UN, we must also be strong in the EU. I would have liked to ask the government: What kind of bridge is it going to be built, or is it going to be built between the future Finnish presidencies when we get first the Presidency of the Council of Europe and then the EU Presidency? Should we not make better use of this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u30	Then Minister Virolainen, that place is enough, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u31	Madam President! There is serious concern here about an international, multilateral contractual system. It's a genuine concern. And especially since trade, foreign and security policy is so closely linked, I would now like to comment on this from the point of view of trade policy, and perhaps it is also necessary to remind you of the role played by the WTO. The WTO creates rules, ensures that the rules are complied with, and then, as a third step, if there are breaches of the treaty, it will deal with them. At the moment, our main problem with trade policy is that the WTO does not operate under the conditions it should have. The background is the different views of the industrialised and developing countries, but also — as has already been mentioned here in many speeches — The United States' increased criticism of the system. The acute problem is, in particular, that no new judges can currently be elected to the appellate body of the dispute settlement mechanism because it is blocked by the United States. This is something that we need to resolve as quickly as possible, because it is our small export-driven country's primary advantage that it works. Similarly, these unilateral measures by the United States are hampering European trade, and we are committed to taking decisive action against it. The balancing measures will be decided next Thursday, the investigation of safeguard measures is under way and the WTO dispute has started 1.3. Well, there is no easy answer to these existing problems, and that is why I could say that we Finns and the European Union must act in a united way. We must try to promote trade where it is possible, and at the moment trade agreements seem to be working. And then the WTO must also raise new issues, such as those that promote cooperation between all of us, such as e-commerce or facilitating investment. — I will continue as soon as I have the next floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u32	Madam President! Population growth is concentrated in the poorest countries in Africa and South Asia, and climate change makes living conditions difficult in many areas, as we know. These factors can accelerate migration even in the short term. Conflicts have become long-term and more difficult to resolve. Conflicts serve as a breeding ground for extremist thinking and accelerate migration. Europe, the Middle East and Africa have a significant impact on each other's future. The activities of multilateral organisations face significant challenges and conflicts. However, multilateral cooperation can best respond to climate change, extreme poverty, inequality, uneven demographic trends and uncontrolled migration. Multilateral cooperation has achieved significant negotiating results, such as the 2030 Agenda and its Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Climate Agreement. It is good to discuss development cooperation and development policy here, because it is strictly linked to this comprehensive security and multilateral cooperation, but in this speech I would like to dissociate myself from the idea that voluntary contributions can be made for long-term development cooperation. I cannot see that it will succeed in that way, but that there is always a need for countries here, and we must remember that this traditional development cooperation is needed in very many fragile countries today and for a very long time, that is, it is not yet time to go. Of course, it is wonderful that much has been achieved, as Mrs Huovinen has said. It's kind of hard to say that nothing's happened. A great deal has happened, but we need more kick and we need a path to that 0.7. I definitely think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u33	Mr President! This afternoon's debate has been excellently comforting and wonderful to hear. There is, you may say, a very united attitude and thinking, a great appreciation of multilateral cooperation and respect for the agreements that have been concluded. This is also a strong support for the government and the President when they make foreign policy in practice. That's very good. Then the big thing is that when everyone agrees that multilateral cooperation is a challenge, what can be done? Of all the things that have been said here, I think that every time we come across the fact that this is our real tool here is the European Union. The European Union should play a bigger role than what has been hoped for here, and Finland should be building this cooperation for its part. Without a strong player, there are no tables where the great leaders of this world are from the United States to China and Russia. The European Union is the only chance, and it is a big thing for us to realise this and invest in it. German Chancellor Merkel said that Europe must learn to stand on its own feet. That was a wise thing to say. It is not going against anyone; the Europe that Merkel in Germany is building, which we must build, is also a Europe of cooperation on the outside. Finally, I should like to express my thanks and congratulations on the agreement with Korea. That is the most important positive thing in recent years. Although it may have been the wrong people in many people's minds,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u34	Madam President! The international rule-based system and institutions are really being shaken from a wide range of angles. Just as has been said in previous speeches, it is now important to find those factors and the right means to support this system and Finland must work strongly within the EU. And a strong EU is a very important player in this. There is room for action at the moment and also for more power to support these institutions. The UN may have been criticised on this issue, and it certainly needs reform. But what the UN has achieved in recent years is often forgotten, for example, the Agenda 2030 Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Climate Agreement, which the United States has subsequently resigned from. They are important actions, global actions, for the benefit of this world and, more specifically, for the poorest and the most disadvantaged in the world. These issues must also be strongly promoted by Europe and Finland. The Minister for Foreign Trade mentioned the difficulties of the World Trade Organisation, which have been known for a long time, and now, of course, the difficulties have become even stronger when the US's criticism of this particular organisation has been very strong. Now it would be interesting to know how Europe and the EU are going to support the strengthening of the WTO, because although we are actively engaged in bilateral trade agreements around the world, which are truly worthy and fine for a small Finland, we still need global trade rules to ensure fair trade and respect for human rights throughout the world. Is there any indication of how the WTO could be strengthened and with whom?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u35	Mr President! At the time of the presidential elections, a debate began on feminist foreign policy. I would like to continue to do so, even if it is because there are often men in this Chamber in the voice of foreign policy. Looking through feminist glasses shows the sexual orientation of security policy. The aim of Feminist foreign policy is to correct this imbalance. A sustainable society is built when everyone is involved. In resolving conflicts, it is essential to ensure that women are involved as actors. Similarly, the implementation of human rights and the improvement of the social status of women must be taken into account in the reconstruction process. A key element of feminist foreign policy is the abolition of violence against women. Sexual violence is used as a means of warfare. Ensuring every physical security is a prerequisite for lasting peace. This can be ensured by supporting the bringing of criminals to justice, by helping victims of crime, by integrating former soldiers into society, and by highlighting the link between the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons and violence against women. Development policy must improve the position of girls and women, as well as sexual and reproductive rights. Ensuring the political and economic rights of women improves the functioning and stability of democracy. There must also be requirements for the assessment of the gender impact of trade negotiations. Mr President! Finland has increased the role of women and girls in its foreign policy. We are now also occasionally implementing a feminist foreign policy, but in the future we must be able to do so systematically in both bilateral and multilateral cooperation. The debate on women's and girls' rights will remain a political rhetoric unless their implementation and the development of funding is followed by clear indicators.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u36	I have to say, as President, that I believe that women have been given the same speaking time here. There is nothing the President can do about it if the group speakers are men for the most part.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u37	Mr President! Development cooperation is indeed one way of supporting human development and the stable development of the world in the future. It would now be particularly important to ensure the basic funding of UN development actors, which has been plagued by the US withdrawal from financial responsibility. There are now more than 200 million women in the world who lack the modern prevention services they need, and the figure is on the rise due to the development finance cuts decided by Trump. This leads to unwanted pregnancies, unsafe abortions and maternal deaths. The lack of sexual and reproductive health rights and services is also an important source of rapid population growth and instability. Finland and the EU should increasingly channel development funding towards sexual and reproductive health services, in particular the UN Population Fund (UNFPA), which now suffers from a significant lack of basic funding, which leads to women not receiving the services they need from developing countries, and this will also have an impact on the population growth that has been mentioned here in the past. Mr President! As far as international trade is concerned, the best thing would be for the rules of international trade to be defined multilaterally within the WTO and not just through bilateral agreements. The removal of unnecessary barriers to trade is justified, but labour rights, environmental regulation, public services and health standards must not and cannot be seen as an obstacle to trade. The rules of the game must also be binding on large global companies, for example with regard to the payment of taxes and the implementation of human rights. But, Mr President, I would also like to ask the Minister: how do you see the situation in the WTO, and is there any way out of this stalemate when it comes to WTO failure?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u38	Mr President! The Prime Minister rightly said that we must understand the change in the international environment. Unfortunately, the Government's review and the debate here show that it is not sufficiently understood. After all, the crisis of multilateral cooperation is essentially due to the fact that Europe and the world are entering a new era: the era of uncontrolled globalisation and supranational integration is coming to an end. Globalisation must be brought under control. This, of course, requires strong multilateral cooperation. This requires effective implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. On the other hand, it must be understood that a change of direction is necessary. Both multilateral cooperation and European integration have gone too far in a supranational direction, and people are now protesting against this. When it comes to multilateral cooperation, there are two options: either it is implemented in a transnational, intergovernmental way, or it is going in a supranational direction. Here, for example, Mr Vanhanen continued to talk about the need to transfer sovereignty to supranational decision-making. It is the supranational integration and cooperation that is now being protested against. We must now realistically look to the future and try to find ways forward in the development of multilateral cooperation based more on nation states and more on intergovernmental cooperation. The time for supranational integration and uncontrolled globalisation is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u39	Mr President! It is, of course, good that Mr Väyryne, as the man of the future, has come to tell us how things are and, of course, I welcome him here. Referring to Mr Heinäluoma's speech, perhaps this is where the blue-red axis of some kind begins to form in the sense that, yes, Europe must be able to stand on its own feet, although with the addition that the line of this government and the line of the President of the Republic that forms of cooperation in the direction of the West have been quite right. If President Trump has been right somewhere, then Europe must be able to increase its funding for its own defence, and that is something that there is obviously a consensus in Europe. It was pointed out that there was some sort of new normal birth. I myself would ask whether we really want such a new normal to be born. Of course, it is true that back in the times of the great leaders it seems to have gone, but if we look back at the situation in Finland before World War II, is it really in the interests of a country such as Finland to go into such a new normal situation, which causes us a very abnormal situation and is contrary to our national interests and security? This is what I would like to ask those who are talking about a new normal situation in the middle of nowhere. I would also like to point out that, in reference to Mr Arhinmäki's speech, this is not a message from the Lords, it is a message from Mr Elon, that it is indeed worrying, although I am perhaps more understanding of Brexit than many Members of this House, that it has just come to light that the Russians have had much closer contact with the Leave campaign than has been said in the past. This is the worrying situation that Europe is facing in practice when it comes to trying to break us apart from the outside. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u40	We are still having a debate here for about 10 minutes, and then both ministers will make short speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u41	Madam President! The oldest human rights and cooperation organisation in Europe, the Council of Europe, will be 70 years old next year, and it is indeed an honour for Finland to hold the presidency of the Council of Europe as of November this year. The Finnish Presidency is subject to high expectations because of these very many challenges and problems that our international environment is facing at the moment, but at the same time the Finnish Presidency also offers many opportunities for both Finland and the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, the activities of the Council of Europe seem to be rather little known here in Finland, even though we have been a member of the Council of Europe for a very long time. It is hoped that during the Finnish Presidency of the Council of Europe, among other things, the Foreign Minister will attend the meetings of the General Assembly, as well as the President of the Republic. I really hope this will happen. In fact, I would like to ask Minister Soin whether he intends to attend the General Assembly of the Council of Europe in January and April next year. I would also ask the ministers, including the Minister from Estonia, who has been a member of the Council of Europe delegation: how do you see this Finnish Presidency, and what opportunities could it offer? There has been talk, among other things, of strengthening the whole system of agreements and of emphasising the role of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u42	Mr President! Since the Second World War, countries have relied heavily on multilateral cooperation. However, it must not be completely blind to think that supranational decision-making is in some way the only way to create peace or promote prosperity, and this is precisely what was seen in the Korean Peninsula through bilateral negotiations when Trump and Kim Jong Un met. On the other hand, it must also be remembered that in the Korean war, the United States sacrificed 35,000 soldiers to defend the freedom and well-being of the Koreans. Here, in some ways between the lines, the idea often comes as if countries were not acting selfishly. After all, denying it is a very great intellectual poverty, for the nation itself has the advantage of a functioning nation state that negotiates and promotes the national interest of its nation state with the various actors. For example, recent European Union trade negotiations with Canada and the United States have been examples of the fact that centralised negotiations through such a large organisation do not always lead to the best outcome for a small country. This is also the case with trade relations and other relations. If Finland were not a mere cuckold of the EU, our role could also be a model of non-commitment and mediation on a global scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u43	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Paloniemi for this speech on development cooperation funds. We strongly believe in Christian Democrats that Finland could afford to increase development funds, but we also need voluntary donations from the Finns of Peru. Mr President! No prolonged international political conflict is so simple that a single player can be pointed at with a finger. In the Middle East, for example, crises seem to continue, and finding a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has proved far from simple. This conflict has been triggered by decades of different attempts to create a mutually acceptable solution. But it is good to remember that in this conflict there is not only a poor and oppressed group of Palestinian refugees and one of the most powerful armies in the world, that is, the Israeli army, but also a small Israel and a Jewish nation against the Islamic powers of the world and a large number of their supporters around the world. The greatest violation of Palestinian human rights is their own administration. The Gaza Strip is dominated by a terrorist organisation, Hamas, which violates the human rights of its people by arbitrary arrests, torture, violations of freedom of opinion and religion and the trampling of women. These injustices, which Palestinians are subjected to by their own leaders, are such that they should be tackled by the whole world. Unfortunately, the Palestinian Authority, the terrorist organisation Hamas, is often protected by many international actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u44	Mr President! The change from the world of the multilateral system to the Great Powers has been rapid, but it is evident that we are living in the age of strong authoritarian leaders, and the underlying factor is, of course, the withdrawal of the United States from the liberal world order and hence from this multilateral cooperation. When a superpower withdraws, it gives way to new regional powers, and we are now witnessing Russia's efforts to maintain its influence, we are witnessing Iran's efforts to increase its influence and we are witnessing rising China. This world of great powers is a vulnerable world for a small country such as Finland, and it is in our interest to seek and support the multilateral cooperation that remains. Mr Soini, where the EU, there is a solution. It is now in Finland's interest to strengthen the EU's ability to act in every way. The EU is now the adult in a room that brings the light of reason to this darkening world and guarantees the rule of law, human rights and democracy. German Chancellor Angela Merkel recently, in her extensive interview with Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, strongly and in every word translation, stressed the need for the EU to be operational in this world, and this message should be supported and supported by Finland. In this interview, Mr Merkel also raised the need to reserve a seat for the EU in the UN Security Council in a changing Member State. Europe has two seats there, one of which could belong permanently to the European Union, and this would also strengthen the EU's ability to contribute to the resolution of global crises. Is it, Minister for Foreign Affairs Timo Soini, that Finland could support this Merkel proposal that the EU should have a seat in the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u45	Mr President! It is easy to go on from this when Mrs Tuppurainen spoke about the UN Security Council. I said in my speech that the chain is as strong as its weakest link, and this also applies to the UN and its Security Council. As we know, there has often been a right of veto in the case, which, at the time of the solution, has made the UN Security Council a sort of toothless paper tiger. This is very regrettable when things could be different there. A few years ago, England and France tried a little to shape the ground for such a reform of the UN specifically in relation to the Security Council, as the idea of relaxing the veto in an appropriate way. But, of course, the superpowers are opposed to this kind of development, because the Security Council is their place of play, precisely by the rules and the structure that it currently has. But, Mr Foreign Minister, do you see the slightest chance that this debate could be carried forward on some schedule with the aim that the Security Council would become such a place of play, that, with the EU’s help at its own place of title, such a general new structure would get these toothless paper tigers out of there and replace their teeth?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u46	Let us take three more brief speeches, followed by the answer of the ministers. Then we will move on to another subject. These three people are Haavisto, Judgments and Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u47	Mr President! The debate has been interesting and I will raise two points. I'll take a closer look at them. The second is what the European Union can do in Africa. I agree with all those who have said that we should have a more and deeper African policy, Mr Elo, Mr Rinne and others, and that population growth should be affected by this. My own experience is that we easily come with great enthusiasm from the European side to Africa, we start hussing, that this should be done, and here is the money and we order. What does this wake up in Africa? It awakens the memory of colonialism, it awakens the memory of a Europe that has tried to put Africa in order in the past, as if without hearing Africans. I believe that this is a major challenge: how do we work together equally with the Africans today and in this time? As institutions, for example, cooperation between the European Union and the African Union will then be good. All the experience that we Finns have to look at people with a beak appreciates them as all people are appreciated, is very important in the world. Unfortunately, we have European partners who may have little of that colonial mindset in the back of the head, and I can tell you that this thinking does not work. Another idea that I would like to share is that often when we talk about Finnish companies and internationalisation — and this is also related to the ideas of the Minister for Foreign Trade — we think about our exports and how our exports are going and how our companies are doing well abroad, but perhaps we should also think of companies as the ones who solve matters. When we talk about Agenda 2030, we need new innovations, Finnish know-how and entrepreneurship, but also the kind of interaction that our companies can see what problems are in the world. In fact, the lifeblood of companies is that they become international, not just that they export and catch up with exports, but that they learn from the world what problems need to be solved and what things are important in the future. We should pay attention to these. Companies will also be involved in this Agenda 2030 work!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u48	Mr President! Every international agreement, whether bilateral or multilateral or international, restricts our sovereignty. And we have chosen it ourselves because either we share the values on which these agreements are based or we see and understand that in this way we are also promoting our own interests. I also emphasise values, because issues such as human rights, the way people are treated, are no longer internal affairs of any country in today's world. Each of us in Finland is also responsible to international human rights organisations and the Court of Human Rights for their compliance. And that's how it's supposed to be in this world. But the benefits of international cooperation are also evident. The world is past the time when it was possible to pursue its own national interest at the expense of others by enslavement to other nations, by taking over their natural resources or territories. No one gains a lasting advantage in this way anymore. This is the basis on which this multilateral system has emerged, through which it has become stronger and through which it must be safeguarded, because there are also short-sighted players who believe that by promoting the interests of their own country, at the expense of others, one can claim to be of benefit to themselves. In the present world of interdependence, where these global challenges cannot be solved except by the widest possible international cooperation, such thinking will lead to ruin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u49	And the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u50	Mr President! I would also have replied in the direction of Mr Tavio that of course the nation state is the basic unit of our action, but, just as Mr Tavio said, the nation states often negotiate very patiently and prudently international agreements that create new standards, international rules, international law. They will then be supranational rules. But they have been done with our own discretion, they will be ratified here in Parliament, and it is our job to try to create credibility that these types of agreements also hold that there will be no such practice that, in the next or next parliamentary term, they will be made redundant in different countries. Here quite a few representatives, Huovinen and Pelkonen among others, asked the Minister From Soin, I saw the bridge of our future presidencies in each other's direction, and they are opportunities in which Finland itself can do much to strengthen this international system. The Presidency of the Arctic Council, at its best, may be an opportunity for the present regimes of Russia and the United States to finally meet. It is certainly not up to us, but we can bring and create conditions for such a meeting. The Presidency of the European Union may become a very challenging one. A little depends on how this spirit develops around Brexit and how unity within the EU develops. If, in the EU, this dispersal trend, which is going on, continues and happens in Brexit, I fear and a sort of horror scenario is that if the EU is not operational, then Europe will return to a Europe of great powers where Paris, Berlin, London, Russia and Rome are the centres of power that are then trying to settle between them — because there will never be a vacuum here. That is why, of course, it is in the interests of small countries to stick to the unity of the EU, and hopefully the Finnish Presidency will make this a strong priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u51	And the answers of the ministers. Minister Soini, no more than 3 minutes — if that's enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u52	Madam President! Thank you for a good conversation. I believe that this has been extremely necessary. When you look at how little foreign and security policy has been addressed in this Parliament, this is an excellent and good debate. Much to myself to learn and to show. I'll start with that Africa. It is exactly as Mr Haavisto said that this old colonial tradition is printed there, but there is a great opportunity for the Nordic countries in particular. Last week I was in Denmark, where we were five Nordic foreign ministers and African foreign ministers. There was a big chance. The Nordic brand is good. We don't have a colonial past. We have the same level of cooperation. There was an opportunity to be at the banquet with Angola, with Algeria, Botswana, Benin, Mozambique, many of these countries, which are practically not easy to meet, and this is the big thing we can do — and through honest trade. There's a chance. I am planning a possible trip to South Africa, Mozambique, Angola next autumn, and I will then try to involve NGOs and business opportunities. It must be done, not that we meet once and sign a statement, but that we have to go there, that we have to come here. This is how it works. Then, as far as the Council of Europe is concerned: It is a good thing that the matter has been raised. I have been to this Presidency both in Strasbourg and in Helsingør, Denmark, where we had a meeting of foreign ministers on the Council of Europe's affairs. Surprisingly, there was a meeting of foreign ministers, where I think there were three or four foreign ministers, and this is true of the lack of commitment and the problems. There are a couple of bigger ones there: one is, in a way, Turkey's activity, and then, of course, Russia is not paying its fees at the moment and is not taking part in this. And that is our headache, of course, right next autumn, and that is it anyway, but then we will be in the chair. We are being followed by France, and the French Minister for European Affairs will be here next Friday, and I believe that this will also arise. The Presidency of the European Union and these are both important issues. The presidency of the European Union comes to quite a seam: it starts in July when the next government to this good government takes care of it. [EeroHeinäluoto]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u54	Then Minister Virolainen. Would two minutes be enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u55	Madam President! I will start with Mr Toivaka and Mr Sarkkinen's questions on what to do to resolve the problems in the WTO. There are actually three lines of action at the moment: a smaller group has already begun to discuss e-commerce and investment facilitation, for example, and here we are now using the term plurilateralism. The second is that we are actively seeking a solution to how the problem of this appeal body can be eliminated — whether it is a type of arbitration or what, it is still on the table. And thirdly, in order to put an end to the confrontation between industrialised countries and developing countries, dialogue has been intensified. With African countries. Several representatives then raised an important question here: the role of girls and women and sexual and reproductive health and rights. Let me remind you that girls are a priority in our development policy. In particular, Mr Sarkkinen expressed his concern about the financing of UNFPA. We are the eighth largest financier, and tomorrow, when the President-in-Office arrives in Parliament, we will probably be able to discuss our future cooperation. Many representatives then expressed their concern about the adequacy of development cooperation funds. I am in the same line with you, and for that we need a common vision of how we build the path to the 0.7 on which we are all committed. Then, Mr Räsänen, you asked about the hate speech in the schoolbooks of the Palestinian Authority. In May, I visited the region, Ramallah, and met the Minister for Education. I told you this was our concern. We had a frank discussion, and he promised that they would undertake to give us an international external evaluation of what this curriculum contains. Let me remind you that it is all open on the Internet that we can check it out. Then I would remind you of the effectiveness of development policy that a debate will take place in this Chamber in the autumn when we get the performance report here — then the few doubting importing countries may also change their perception. Thank you all for maintaining our common values. Human rights, the rule of law and democracy, we must all have them in mind every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u56	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Committee on Defence must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches and other pre-arranged speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order I am considering, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of reply. First of all, the presentations, Minister Soini and Minister Niinistö, both five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u57	Madam President! The report to the Parliament provides an overview of the situation in Afghanistan and Finland’s support for Afghanistan. The report also consults Parliament in accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act on Finland's participation in the Resolute Support crisis management operation. The development and stability of Afghanistan call for a sustainable solution to the conflict and the country's government's ability to assume responsibility for the security and functioning of its citizens. It is clear that further support from the international community is needed to achieve this objective. Finland should continue to be involved in supporting Afghanistan. We have been involved in the stabilisation and reconstruction of Afghanistan since 2002. Afghanistan is one of the priorities of Finland's foreign and security policy. Afghanistan is Finland's largest bilateral partner in development cooperation, which we have committed to supporting with approximately EUR 28 million per year between 2017 and 2020. We have also supported Afghanistan through crisis management. Finland participated in the ISAF mission that ended in 2015. Since then, we have been involved in a smaller NATO Resolute Support mission aimed at supporting capacity building and the capacity of Afghan security authorities to be responsible for the security of the country. Finland’s approach is comprehensive. Our support also covers humanitarian aid and, as a topical theme, cooperation on migration and return. Afghanistan is still a fragile country. The security situation has not developed as desired in recent years. Creating development is slow and risky. I must admit this. However, it must be borne in mind that support from Finland and the rest of the international community has also produced important results. The report shows that there have been positive developments in relation to the situation in Afghanistan in 2002. After the Taliban, the country was in ruins. Improvements have occurred in the education and health sectors. Life expectancy has risen and is approaching 61 years. Some 40 per cent of children starting school are girls, while girls could not attend school at all at the beginning of the 21st century. Madam President! In the human rights situation, progress has been made on freedom of assembly and media and freedom of expression. Tax recovery has improved and there are signs of stimulation in the economy. There is a prospect that Afghanistan could move from aid addiction to greater self-sufficiency. Despite difficult circumstances, more elections have been held in Afghanistan and the country is currently preparing for the October parliamentary elections. It must also be borne in mind that security responsibilities were transferred to the Afghan security authorities in 2015 at the time of the termination of the ISAF mission. This will continue to be the starting point. However, the security situation is weak, and this is one of the main obstacles to development. There is also a need for a regional approach — A constructive contribution from neighbouring countries is also needed to stabilise Afghanistan. There are more than 20 international terrorist groups operating in and around the country. A further deterioration in the security situation would leave room for the strengthening of terrorism and extremism. The action of these extremists does not look at the borders of the states. Increasing instability in Afghanistan could also lead to uncontrolled migration. The cooperation between the Finnish and Afghan authorities on return issues is working well at the moment, but since the conflict in Afghanistan continues to be challenging and the general lack of visibility of citizens is high, a new activation of migration cannot be ruled out. Madam President! A few words on Resolute Support: It is a key tool for the international community to support the stabilisation of Afghanistan's security. Its main starting point is that Afghanistan's security responsibility lies with its own security forces. The mission will focus on training and advisory activities. The independence of the Afghan security authorities has improved with Operation RS, but is not at an adequate level. Continued international support is essential. As the security situation continues to be difficult, the initial plans for Resolute Support could not be advanced. The number of troops is to be increased from around 13,000 to around 16,000, and this strengthening of the mission will also emerge in the context of the NATO Summit in July. Finland is currently participating in the operation with 30 soldiers, and the national participation mandate has been around 40. The present report states that: Finland would strengthen its participation by raising its participation to approximately 60 soldiers as of 1 January 2019. Participation would be concentrated in the northern command area led by Germany. Madam President! Finally, increasing Finland's strength would be in line with Finland's active participation in military crisis management and Finland's position as an advanced partner of NATO. It would also be an important part of Finland's overall commitment to stability and development in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u58	Next up, Minister Niinistö, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u59	Madam President! As we are well aware, Finland has been involved in crisis management in Afghanistan for a long time, in fact since 2002, and there is still no end. Most of the country, in the previous ISAF operation, served 195 Finnish soldiers. As Minister Soini said earlier, the objective of the current Operation Resolute Support (RS) is to bring the security forces and structures in Afghanistan to such a level that they will ultimately be able to maintain the country’s security stability independently. There's still a long way to go. That is why we need strategic patience. Therefore, in their assessment of the situation, the forces involved in Operation RS have concluded that the operation must be extended beyond the initial plan and strengthened. There are no troops in the operation and there is now an attempt to increase them. In a debate held last week at the NATO Ministerial meeting, 23 countries announced an increase in the number of their soldiers, including Finland. I was there. All in all, there are 39 troops-setting countries in Operation RS. The situation in Afghanistan will next be discussed at the NATO Summit in July. Madam President! In the context of Finland’s crisis management participation, it is also justified to regularly assess the size of our crisis management participation in the plenary debates of Parliament, which operations we participate in and what performances we have. Participation in Operation RS is part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. From the point of view of the Defence Administration, it is important that participation also supports the development of national defence and increases the competence of our main personnel and reserve staff. There is always a risk of crisis management participation, and I would therefore like to reiterate what has been recorded in the report in this regard: ‘The safety situation in the capital Kabul continues to be weak. Terrorists are targeted at government and security forces, including ministries, courts and police stations, as well as targets of the international community, such as RS bases and embassies. The rebel range of means includes explosive attacks, car bombs, suicide attacks, direct fire, indirect fire, mini-airplane and chopper operations and multi-purpose attacks combining different elements.’ The focus of Finland’s participation is at present on advisory activities, which also includes self-protection personnel working as advisors in Kabul. In addition, Finland's participation includes participation in the mission's headquarters tasks and the necessary national support. The advisory work is now mainly carried out in the northern region of Mazar-i-Sharf. In the Kabul region, Finland's participation includes staff officers, advisers and the self-protection team of such advisors. Finland will strengthen its participation by increasing the number of troops to 60 from the beginning of next year. At the same time, Finland’s participation will be centred on the northern command area Mazar-i-Sharf, led by Germany. In the future, the mission will include a team of jägers, advisers, trainers and staff. The provision of a Jääkäri team for Operation RS provides a natural continuation for the use of trained personnel and ready-trained reserve personnel in the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon under demanding conditions. This will also provide experience in, for example, crisis management requiring operations and in demanding advisory tasks. In Mazar-i-Sharif, Finland has ready-made national maintenance support systems, contracts and base structures. At the same time, Finland’s participation in Operation RS constitutes a clear regional and operational priority. Raising the mass force to 60 soldiers will enable the formation of appropriate groups, as well as the management, maintenance, administration and national support of the Finnish troops in accordance with the circumstances. Madam President! Finally, I would like to say that the cornerstone of participation in military crisis management is national defence. The basic military expertise required for crisis management operations shall be created in the tasks of national defence. Quality and quantitatively sufficient domestic training and training activities together with international training activities are a basic prerequisite for service security, effective and effective crisis management participation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u60	After that, we go by parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u61	Madam President! A lasting political solution is needed to stabilise Afghanistan. The international community has been involved in the stabilisation of Afghanistan for many years. Finland has also assumed its international responsibility and has been involved in the stabilisation and reconstruction of the country since 2002. Over the past 15 years, respect for human rights and the role of women have improved in some respects, but there are still serious problems in terms of equality and access to education. Afghanistan is a fragile country whose security situation has deteriorated since the end of the ISAF mission. The political situation is uncertain. There are more than 20 terrorist groups in and around the country. Drug production is a major problem and the economy is based on foreign aid. The problems are a breeding ground for terrorism and extremism. The increase in instability would also lead to increasing uncontrolled migration. Therefore, the NATO Resolute Support mission must be continued in order to put the country on a more sustainable path to peace. The key to the stabilisation of Afghanistan lies in a sustainable political solution, free elections and strengthening the country's own carrying capacity to assume responsibility for security and its future. The international community, at the forefront of the UN, must be able to create a clear road map and an action plan towards a sustainable political solution to support the peace process in Afghanistan. Mr President! Since 2015, Finland has participated in military crisis management in the Resolute Support operation. The United States and the EU have made a significant contribution to this operation and its continuation has been based on a need-tested approach. Two Finnish soldiers have perished in Afghanistan while performing service duties. The burden has been heavy. Participation in military crisis management is a valuable, demanding and dangerous task. All necessary support must be given to those who leave, repatriate and repatriate operations. Finland's participation in operations cannot be permanent. Participation must take into account, on a case-by-case basis, the needs of international cooperation, the risks of the operation, the tasks we would be required to perform and the benefits for national defence. Mr President! My own experience of UN missions dates back to 89-90 in Namibia. At that time, Finland was a great Peacekeeper state, both in terms of the number of soldiers and influence. 88 Finns were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. In Africa Namibia was the first major Finnish operation. There were over 2,000 Finns down there. Of them, 950 carried out their mission in Namibia. But the lesson of that operation was that it began in March-April 89 and ended in April-May 90. That's where we went, the mission was carried out and we came home, which means that it was a peace-keeping operation in the hands of the Finns, which was completed. Martti Ahtisaari is a good example of this in Finland, probably the most distinguished person. Mr President! In view of the fragile situation in Afghanistan, the parliamentary group in the centre considers it justified to strengthen Finland’s participation in some 60 soldiers from the beginning of next year. Through our participation, we gain experience in demanding crisis management tasks and advisory tasks. Participation also strengthens Finland’s position as an advanced partner of NATO. Finland has an honorable history in peace-keeping and crisis management. We are a peace-building country whose soldiers are appreciated by both local and cooperative countries. On this basis, we will continue to promote peace, stability and security within our own resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u62	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen and colleagues and others present! When the Parliament last discussed Finland's involvement in the stabilisation of Afghanistan in 2014, the situation was difficult, but the faith created Afghanistan's growing responsibility for its own security. The international community believed and trusted that progress towards better development would continue and Afghanistan would succeed in the future with lighter support. Unfortunately, the last few years have proved our optimism wrong. Afghanistan was not, and is not, a country that could stand firm on its own feet for a long time. The security situation has deteriorated and new terrorist groups have gained ground. However, this is not a time when we should give up and leave the country to its own devices. Now is the time when the international community, including Finland, must strengthen its support for Afghanistan. Finland has been involved in the NATO military Resolute Support crisis management operation since its establishment in 2015, as well as in the ISAF operation prior to that. Initially, Finland trained, supported and advised the Afghan security authorities with some 80 troops. Later, the operation has been reduced when the situation seemed brighter. In view of the difficult situation, NATO has now decided to continue and re-strengthen the operation on a need-based basis for an indefinite period of time. Finland has also been asked to support this. In the report we are discussing today, Finland proposes to increase the number of its soldiers from about 30 today to around 60 from the beginning of next year. This is a sensible crowd size that serves both the operation and the national interests of Finland. It enables Finland to participate in a regional and operational focus by focusing its participation on the northern command area Mazar-i-Sharf, led by Germany. Operation in demanding crisis management and advisory tasks will undoubtedly also benefit our national capabilities, although the importance of this objective is not as important as it was in the past. However, the motives for crisis management are always diverse. The Coalition Party believes that Finland should be one of the countries that show and shoulder responsibility and support the most fragile countries. It's about values. Equally, it is a question of strengthening partnerships. Finland is an advanced partner country in NATO, and there are also certain obligations arising from its special status. Thirdly, it is a question of Finland's own security. The stability of Afghanistan is directly linked to international terrorism and the number of refugees. The Taliban has regained strength. The Afghan branch of Isis-Daesh is also intensifying. In total, there are more than 20 international terrorist groups in the region. In 2015, we had concrete experience of how close the crisis really is when more than 5,000 Afghan refugees arrived in Finland. The strengthening of extreme thinking and uncontrolled migration are neither of our interests. Mr President! Although the outlook is gloomy and the security situation is not expected to improve in the near future, there are also bright spots: in 15 years the position of women and children has improved, infant mortality has decreased considerably, and as many as 40% of children starting school are girls when they were not allowed to attend school at all in the early 2000s. We are well aware that the rights of women and girls play a key role in creating peace and a sustainable society. Finland has done valuable work in this regard. The stabilisation of Afghanistan is a priority for Finland's foreign, security and development policy. A comprehensive approach is necessary as the achievement of development objectives requires stability and stability requires a functioning society, the realisation of human rights and prospects. The processes are long and a country such as Afghanistan must also be prepared for backwardness. Mr President! The truth is, there are risks to the operation and they should not be underestimated. Self-protection and insurance cover must be up-to-date. However, there would be a higher risk of non-participation and non-assistance. With the support of Finland and other countries, results have been achieved. They show that even in difficult circumstances things can develop toward the better. Patience is an asset now. Finally, it is also good to remember one thing: if we want solidarity from our partners, we must also have the will and the willingness to bear it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u63	Mr President! Since 2002, Finland has been involved in the stabilisation and reconstruction of Afghanistan at the request of the international community. Despite the progress made over 15 years, Afghanistan is still a fragile country. Following the end of the International ISAF crisis management operation and the transfer of security responsibility to local authorities, the security situation in the country has again deteriorated. The difficulty factor for stabilisation in Afghanistan is high. In the event of a prolonged crisis and a deterioration in the security situation, it is appropriate to recall the limitations that always relate to foreign military intervention and a more permanent presence. Despite good efforts, the internal stability of Afghanistan, the construction of a functioning democratic regime and the rule of law have not been sufficiently achieved. A number of international terrorist groups continue to operate in Afghanistan and neighbouring areas, which would require not only security but also economic progress in the well-being of ordinary Afghans. We therefore need Afghan society's own responsibility both for the development of the country as a whole and for internal dialogue. Mr President! I visited Afghanistan as President in 2012. At that time, Timo Soini, then Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Niinistö, Chairman of the Committee on Defence were also involved in the parliamentary delegation. The experiences of that trip were memorable and impressive, even today. Our soldiers played their part in the security of Afghanistan with great knowledge and skill. It became equally clear that, as foreign troops leave, the security situation will deteriorate if there is no political solution to the country. That is exactly what has happened now. It was also clear from the experience of that trip that change in Afghanistan requires not only security measures but also these genuine opportunities for living, especially job opportunities for young people, and also the health of the country's administration. The fight against corruption must take place genuinely, not only in words. Over the years, our parliamentary group has consistently emphasised the primacy of good governance and human rights in Afghanistan policy. In order for Afghanistan to get on its feet, all forms of corruption must be eradicated from its administration and sustainable pillars must be built for the functioning of the rule of law. Improving human rights, especially the role of women and girls, will support the security and development of society as a whole. Finland has made a strong contribution to the stabilisation and development of Afghanistan. Nearly 2,000 Finns have served in crisis management forces. Finland has spent more than EUR 600 million on crisis management and development cooperation. It is fair to say today that the results achieved cannot be satisfied. The eyes are turning strongly inside Afghanistan. The parliamentary and presidential elections in the country over the next few years will be the next test for the integration of national democracy and the rule of law and the emphasis on Afghan own responsibility. Mr President! It is known that there is no military solution based solely on force in sight. After fifteen years of constant fighting, one should look the truth in the eye. The Finnish Government must work in the European Union and to a wider extent to change the strategy based on the military use of force in Afghanistan. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group supports Finland's efforts to stabilise Afghanistan and accepts an enhanced presence in Afghanistan. At the same time, we note emphatically that there is no prospect of a military solution. We need a strong dialogue within the country and a peaceful solution to the crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u64	Mr President! Afghanistan has been in civil war since 1979. The situation in the country is still very weak. The view of the Blue Parliamentary Group is that improving the security situation is the first and biggest of the challenges facing Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, along with Taliban, there are many other armed groups that make their living through, among other things, a thriving drug business. Ethnic and regional tribes compete for power. Central government is weak. However, the government is seeking peace through political negotiations. According to the UN, achieving peace calls for the Taliban to enter into negotiations, something that has not been done before. The exclusion has been seen as an increase in the number of terrorist attacks that the movement seeks to improve its negotiating position. The Taliban acts mainly with the support of Pakistan. Pakistan and Afghanistan are long-standing regional rivals. The war in Afghanistan is therefore not only a civil war but also a regional conflict. The major NATO-led military crisis management operation ISAF was closed in 2015. The operation failed to bring peace or defeat the Taliban movement to Afghanistan. The mission was replaced by a much smaller, still NATO-led Resolute Support operation, in which Finland participates. The purpose of the mission was to train and advise the Afghan security forces to which responsibility for the security of the country was transferred. There will be no international troops involved in the fighting. Since the end of the ISAF mission, the security situation in Afghanistan has slipped from one year to the next. The second worst terrorist attack in Kabul took place a year ago in May. The United States is planning to strengthen Operation RS for 16,000 soldiers, which is hoped to prevent the country from re-entering Taliban control. Finland is prepared to increase its participation in the operation by 20 soldiers. Mr President! The position of women in Afghanistan is poor. Although the end of the Taliban regime meant an improvement in the position of women, the position of women in rural areas is, above all, still weak. In many places women are subject to conservative rules based on the Islamic legal system. Almost half of women are married at the age of 18, one in ten at the age of 15. Domestic violence against women is known to be widespread. Only 19 percent of women can read, in rural areas less than 10 percent of the population can read. According to UNICEF estimates, four out of ten children from Afghanistan are not educated at all. The Blue Parliamentary Group sees women's education as one of the most important means for the future of Afghanistan. According to the population survey, women in Afghanistan feel illiteracy and lack of education are the main problem. Most of Finland’s development aid is targeted at gender equality work, which focuses on strengthening the education sector, securing girls’ schooling and promoting women’s literacy. Promising progress has been made in these areas. Mr President! Finland has been a small giant in peacekeeping operations. It has achieved good results through determined work and has earned international appreciation. Finland builds peace, promotes literacy and reduces maternal mortality. How is the situation in Afghanistan reflected in Finland, and why should Finland invest around EUR 46 million a year in the stabilisation of Afghanistan as the crisis management operation expands? Last year, over 400 asylum seekers arrived in Finland from Afghanistan. Emigration will be prevented and regional stability promoted best through peace-oriented efforts. Finland maintains its international relations by participating in a joint crisis management operation. The Blue Parliamentary Group supports Finland's participation and the expansion of the mission.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u65	Mr President! Afghanistan has long been in a fragile situation in many ways and still is. The main problems are the uncertain political situation and more than 20 terrorist groups in and around the country. If stability deteriorates, terrorism will be strengthened and uncontrolled emigration will increase. Insecurity is also increased by organised crime and the increase in kidnappings. Resolute Support has helped the Afghan authorities to strengthen regional stability and fight terrorism. One of the most important tasks is to improve the quality of the leadership of Afghan security forces, to reduce corruption, which is always worth paying attention to, and to transfer police forces from combat to actual police missions. Indeed, international support has produced results: the security forces have been able to prevent the rebels from occupying major settlements. In this context, it is also worth remembering that terrorist organisations are also criminal organisations that receive funds from smuggling, drug production and, in the case of the Taliban, from mining. A new problem in Afghanistan is the strengthening of the ISKP branch and its attacks on Shia Muslims and other religious sites. Mr President! According to the UN, the human rights situation in Afghanistan has improved in certain areas over the last 15 years. However, violence against women and children, abuse and child marriage remain serious problems. Afghanistan has extensive drug production. It is estimated that the country produces about 80 percent of the world’s raw opium. Most of the output ends up financing illegal armed activities. Finland has been involved in anti-drug activities by supporting the creation of alternative livelihoods for farmers and increasing the capacity of public authorities. Finland’s Afghanistan policy has been quite rational because it combines political influence, international relations, development cooperation and both military and civilian crisis management. In 2015, 5214 asylum seekers came to Finland from Afghanistan. The Finns believe that cooperation on returns in particular is an important part of Finland's Afghanistan policy. The objective must continue to be to return and to work together more effectively with regard to asylum seekers who have received a negative decision. In 2015, the Government set an asylum policy action programme when the Finns of Finland were still working on it — if anyone remembers — as one of the key objectives of concluding a return agreement and effective returns to Afghanistan. The deal's done, and that's good. Persons who are illegally resident and have received a negative decision, as well as those who have committed crimes, must be brought back to their country of origin effectively by developing cooperation between the Finnish and Afghan authorities to become more effective. The Finnish Immigration Service updated the security situation in Afghanistan in December 2017, when it was concluded that the country is not in a state of war as a whole and that the general circumstances of the country are not grounds for granting international protection. Here I could remind you that Kabul is probably one of the fastest growing cities in the world at the moment. The True Finns also demand that the possibility be fully realised to return a person to another peaceful part of his or her home country if the part from which the asylum seeker has come is not considered safe. The ethnic divides divide Afghanistan politically. The majority of the population are pashtu, but significant sections of the population are also Tadzhik, Hazarat and Uzbeki. Local and regional forces have a lot of power. The government is also divided according to ethnic groups, and its internal conflicts are great. Here is another example of the fact that so-called multiculturalism does not always seem to work. In the future, it might perhaps be worth considering the development of more autonomous regions in Afghanistan. If nothing has been done since the 19th century, perhaps we could consider changing the whole pattern. The Finns Party considers it important to participate in this Resolute Support crisis management operation as planned. The aim must be to transfer security responsibility to Afghanistan's own security forces, the military and the police, so that they will ultimately be able to maintain stability in the country's security situation independently and in a credible manner in accordance with the principles of good governance. The Resolute Support Action Plan emphasises the need to prevent terrorism and is always to be welcomed. The countries participating in the mission have come to the conclusion that Operation RS needs to be continued in order to achieve a more sustainable security situation. We agree. The focus of the Finnish Resolute Support operation is on advisory activities. The Finns of Peru support the increase in participation from 40 to 60 soldiers. It enables the formation of appropriate groups, as well as the management of the Finnish group, self-protection, maintenance, management and national support in accordance with the circumstances. Finland must stay with other democratic countries in Afghanistan, because those who are involved have the power to speak. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u66	Mr President! Since 2002, Finland has supported the stabilisation and reconstruction of Afghanistan as part of the international community. We have participated in the work through military and civilian crisis management, development cooperation and humanitarian aid. Despite considerable efforts, Afghanistan remains one of the poorest countries in the world and a very fragile country. Security responsibility has now been transferred to Afghanistan's own security authorities, but the security situation has not improved in the desired way, quite the contrary. International support is still needed to achieve lasting peace and stability. The Group of the Greens therefore believes that the continuation of the Resolute Support crisis management operation is justified and we support the increase in Finland's participation. Mr President! Wars do not end by war, and lasting peace will not be achieved with weapons. The only way is to negotiate peace. In Afghanistan, this requires the inclusion of all the parties involved, including tribal councils, Taliban leaders, women's networks, young people and the international community. We must also be able to negotiate with terrorists. President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan has been willing to build a dialogue. Support for this is a key task for Finland and the international community as a whole. Mr President! Although the situation in Afghanistan is still very difficult, Finland’s years of work there to improve the position of women and girls and to promote human rights and the rule of law have not been wasted: Infant mortality has decreased, sexual and reproductive health services reach an increasing number of women, and the share of girls starting school has risen to 40%. The freedom of expression situation has improved and the media field has expanded. More than half a million people have been trained in human rights. But we're in the middle of a job. Moreover, violence against women and child marriages, for example, remain serious problems. The torture of prisoners is systematic and continuous. Mr President! In addition to military crisis management, civilian crisis management, political influence, humanitarian aid and development cooperation should form a whole. This calls for a better dialogue with the various actors in the same region, so that the joint efforts for peace, stability and development can be realised. It must be possible to commit to crisis management operations and the comprehensive crisis management work carried out alongside them for years to come. This must also be reflected in resources. I'm afraid so. The Sipilä government cut not only development cooperation money but also crisis management. A radical reduction in crisis management was included in the Government Programme. Fortunately, the Government Programme has not been implemented, but Parliament has approved the operations with separate funding one at a time and the participation has been kept at the level of the last period. Crisis management is long-term work. Building trust and lasting peace takes time. You can't do that. You can't do that. Minister for Defence The recent throws from Niinistö about cutting down crisis management were irresponsible. The Greens believe that in order to ensure a long-term perspective, we need a crisis management strategy prepared in a parliamentary way for Finland. It should define the objectives, priorities and sufficient resources for action over the parliamentary term. Mr President! Although Finland is no longer a major country in crisis management, we are a respected player in the world. Soldiers, reservists, authorities and volunteers serving military and civilian crisis management tasks are skilled and competent. Thank you so much. The promotion of the Women, Peace and Security resolution is strongly reflected not only in our activities in the target countries but also in the participation of more and more Finnish women in crisis management tasks. These strengths must be maintained. Mr President! Participation in crisis management increases the performance of national defence. Crisis management is an effective means of supporting people in conflict areas on the ground. It will prevent problems and address the root causes of refugees. Nevertheless, the importance of crisis management lies first and foremost in Finland’s taking on its international responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u67	Mr President! In Afghanistan, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union and the United States/NATO have each, in turn, tried with military force to solve problems for which there is no military solution. The Soviet Union tried to use weapons to export atheism and communism, the United States of America’s freedom and democracy — both projects failed just as badly. Afghanistan is today's Vietnam. Finland is practically a party to war in Afghanistan. When the ISAF operation was converted into Resolute Support, it was given the impression that the capability of Afghan security forces to conduct and conduct operations across the country has been strengthened. At present, however, the rebels have a larger area in their possession than at the start of the ISAF operation. In Obama's time, no military solution was achieved, even by 100000 soldiers. How can you do that with a fraction of that amount? President Trump's request to his allies to increase troops in Afghanistan is not about a new strategy, but about an old one. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Vanhanen, said, surprisingly quickly, that Finland too should increase troops if the request from the United States leaves. On the contrary, Finland will be forced to break away from NATO-led military operations and withdraw its troops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u70	Ärade fru talman, Mr President! The World Bank estimates that as many as 15 million children under the age of 18 are forced to marry each year. Child marriages remain a strong tradition also in Afghanistan. This is one of the main obstacles that makes it difficult to achieve positive social development. According to UNICEF, almost half of women in Afghanistan marry under the age of 18 and more than one in ten are under 15 years of age. Boys too are at risk of being forced into marriage as minors. Girls forced into marriage often drop out of school, which reduces their chances of employment. In addition, maternal mortality rates due to early pregnancies are the worst in the world, particularly in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is indeed Finland’s largest bilateral partner for development cooperation. The Swedish Parliamentary Group considers the efforts made by the education sector to ensure girls' schooling and to improve women's literacy to be particularly important. The focus of the government's aid efforts is therefore in the right place. At the same time, however, it has to be said that the drastic cuts made at the beginning of the parliamentary term have weakened Finland's development policy in a way that cannot be defended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u71	Madam President! We have heard excellent group speeches here. In particular, I found it interesting to hear Mr Mustajärvi's reflective and questioning speech. Afghanistan is still a fragile country and needs support from the international community. The Christian Democratic Parliament Group shares this view in the report. In recent years, Afghan asylum seekers have also come to Finland to prove the serious situation in Afghanistan. The creation of peace and stability is of the utmost importance for us and, in particular, for the people who live in and have left the country. For this reason, our parliamentary group supports the Finnish line in providing financial support for the country and continuing to participate in the international crisis management operation. Although our group fully supports international support, we are concerned about the slow pace of progress. Afghanistan is still very politically divided. The establishment of a true lasting peace seems truly distant. Political tensions are compounded by large-scale corruption, as is well highlighted in the report. The international community must make an ever stronger effort to influence the fight against corruption. The assistance provided must be found and reach out to the most vulnerable Afghans. Mr President! Democracy, economic stability and a functioning civil society cannot be created in the midst of war and terrorist attacks. As stated in the report, the unrest has increased in recent years since the end of the International Mission for ISAF. The transfer of security responsibility to Afghanistan's own security authorities has therefore not been a successful solution in all respects. Should I have done something different? This is a question which certainly raises a number of concerns. It is clear, at least, that the Afghan Government and the security authorities need international support for a long time to stabilise the country. Continued efforts should be made to support the rule of law and the police force in Afghanistan. The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group welcomes the Finnish approach to continuing support for the Afghan police sector and supports the sending of experts to support this valuable work. Afghanistan is Finland's largest bilateral development partner at the moment. We believe it is important that the promotion of the status and rights of women and children is at the heart of this cooperation. Investing in women's education and rights can provide a basis for a sustainable future. We are also in favour of investing in human rights issues. The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group welcomes the government's approach to concluding bilateral return agreements and achieving safe and effective return practices. We need an effective system for returning asylum seekers who receive a negative asylum decision. However, we would like to remind the government that every asylum seeker must be guaranteed fair and individual treatment. The increased efforts of the government in the asylum process have undermined the legal protection of applicants, to which legal scholars have also drawn attention. The process of seeking asylum must also take into account the person's religious convictions and the resulting threats to the asylum seeker. For many Afghans, turning to Christianity can mean almost a direct death sentence if they return to their homeland. Mr President! Finland has long participated in various crisis management operations in Afghanistan. The contribution of Finns has been appreciated, and at the same time the participation has increased under demanding operating conditions for the Defence Forces, and we consider it important that Finland participates in supporting the Afghan security authorities as an advisor and leader. This is important work to stabilise and develop the country. The Christian Democratic Parliament Group supports the continuation of Finland's participation in the Resolute Support operation. We are also in favour of increasing the force to 60 soldiers. Mr President! We need a broad, comprehensive vision to stabilise Afghanistan, we need the nerves of the cow, we need the ability and we need the will to start over and over again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u72	Now, after the round of group speeches, I will give the ministers three minutes' answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u73	Madam President! Thank you for these group speeches, they were well prepared, they had been examined. It is pleased that when serious issues are being discussed in Parliament and are being sent to our people, men and women, for these serious and demanding tasks, it is being done with due justification and insight. And for that, thank you to all the groups. There is no military solution to this situation, we know that. President Ghani has now taken a negotiating initiative in February in the direction of Taliban, and the first cease-fire proposals and cease-fires may be the solution. I remember well when Mr Heinäluoma was the chairman and we visited there in 2012. That's when they could still live in a hotel. They can't now. I went there again when I was a minister, and the situation has not improved. But how bad would it be without being there? It must be remembered that the Taliban hold almost 40% of Afghan land and the Taliban's goal is to rule Afghanistan in accordance with Islamic law, sharia. In addition to the central management and the so-called ministers, the Taliban is organized into governor-led provinces and groups led by regional warlords. This control system is fragmented, but it has not weakened Taliban's fighting power. In addition, there are more than 20 international terrorist groups in Afghanistan that seek to exploit this fragile security situation and instability. We are also talking about the activities of our neighbours, Pakistan's role is twofold. There is reasonable doubt that they are helping or providing supplies and that they are also enabling Taliban to operate. It is also good to remember that a famous terrorist, Osama bin Laden, faced his fate specifically. In Pakistan before that, I believe he escaped from Afghanistan. It will not be easy, but this is precisely the multilateral international rule-based cooperation that is needed here. The second case is to pick up his gear and run away. By the way, Mr Mustajärvi's speech, but I think that the conclusion was irresponsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u75	Madam President! Thank you, too, for the good group speeches and support for the government line. Criticism came, as it should be in democracy, and this time from the left. In this respect, I agree with the Left Alliance's parliamentary group that the continuation of the Resolute Support mission should not be justified too much by the development of national defence. Yes, more or less all military doctrines have already been applied for, obtained and put into practice by the Afghan operation — many, for example, even in field medical training in garrison training. And it's a good thing. Therefore, the RS mission is about Finland's foreign and security policy, and we would undoubtedly be more effective in developing Finland's national defence by putting this same money in even if the reservists' refresher exercises, I do not deny it at all than by participating in the RS mission. But as I said, this is part of Finland's foreign and security policy, and it includes not only crisis management but also development cooperation and political engagement in Afghanistan. As far as the reduction of crisis management operations is concerned, they have been carried out in accordance with the Government Programme during this parliamentary term, Mr Mustajärvi. The so-called fragmentation operations have already been eliminated, for example, UNMOGIP, UNDOF and Althea. In accordance with the Government Programme, we have concentrated our participation in more impressive and larger operations, such as this RS and the ORI mission in Iraq, and the largest UNIFIL mission in Lebanon, where we are already in the fourth decade and at present 340 soldiers. In other words, Finland will continue its active participation in international crisis management.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u76	I'm opening a debate. I would ask those Members who wish to use the reply to press the V button and stand up. I will start with two minutes of speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u77	Mr President! First of all, the good news: I remember a period of mass murder at Kabul Stadium. The boys played football on the victim's skulls. The bad news is, of course, that today, corruption, still poverty, violence, human rights violations, drugs and so on and so on are being held back in Afghanistan, and everything has been involved, as has been said here, in a number of ways in the nuclear state of Pakistan. The biggest mistake, Mr President, would now be to give in to the Taliban and withdraw from those regions. In many ways we need support measures. Of course, we need a regional political solution. What has been overlooked here, however, is that the UN has decided to give a mandate to NATO, which is only doing the task assigned to it. It is pointless to take NATO as guilty of what has happened or has not happened in Afghanistan. Instead, I would like to ask: while it is important to assume responsibility on behalf of the international community, would it not be possible for the European Union, in addition to this NATO operation under the auspices of the UN, to do something on the civilian crisis management side, which was widely discussed in the recent agenda item and the need to assume increased responsibility as an international actor, to stabilise the situation in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u78	Madam President! There has been a commendable debate here on the situation in Afghanistan, and the centre, in its own group speech, wanted to highlight in particular this need to find a political solution and the road map of the future which, in our opinion — and only so — will enable the Afghan operation to be resolved. Military solution, the final solution, is not possible in Afghanistan either. So we have to find the road map. But I too would like to raise the question: what really is the role of the UN in this operation, has the UN done everything in its power, and, as in that previous speech, does the EU have such resources and abilities and skills to resolve such international operations? I am indeed concerned about the situation in Afghanistan. The situation of women and children has certainly improved, but work must continue to be done to ensure that children are able to attend school, and especially on the issue of equality between women. There is also the issue of drug trafficking, which finances important activities in Afghanistan. Should we Europeans also look at ourselves in the mirror, for when we buy those drugs, are we in this way contributing to the bad development of Afghanistan? I would also like to see an answer to these questions. But, in particular, on this road map, I ask the minister concerned: is there such a road map, and is it practically possible to do that?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u79	Madam President! “ Finnish War Calculator in Afghanistan ” — Headline 15. The President Lieutenant Jukka Kansonen lost his life in an armored mine, an IED. Pekka Jylhä was in the same car, and he was seriously injured, injured for the rest of his life in an ISAF crisis management operation. The security situation in Afghanistan and Kabul remains weak, as the ministers went through in their own speeches, and we have also held this issue on numerous occasions in the Committee on Defence. When the current Minister of Defence, Niinistö, was chairman of the committee, we raised, among other things, this case of Pekka Jylha and concern about how the Treasury did not deal with it. The crown did send his sons but did not care for his sons to the end. In your time, Minister Niinistö, the matter has been corrected and in a better situation and we have a crisis management veteran programme in which we take care of these men and women who are leaving, but I would like to ask you: how has this programme now worked, what kind of insurance cover, and are we still having this debate? It would also be interesting to hear about self-protection in this operation. Finally, Mr President, I think it is important that we carefully consider which operations we are involved in and how many operations we are participating in or whether we are looking for precisely the kind of operations where we are able to be even more impressive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u80	Mr President! The fact is that the results of the present presence in Afghanistan are not at all what was thought 15 years ago. This operation has lengthened, become much more expensive, called for much more troops, and the internal development of Afghanistan is not what we thought in the early 21st century. As has been pointed out here, it is now once again thought that some progress can be made by increasing strength. It is likely that the situation can be restored, but this dilemma, which is why we are now going there with more power, will then be re-emphasised in a moment. This was at least my own conclusion when I came to this country and listened to both the citizens and the political influences of the country and then the soldiers who are there. This makes you think about the whole logic of the entrance. Western military power and technology are absolutely superior, and yes, the ground is not a problem, but then the question is: what happens afterwards? The United States has been faced with this same issue in Iraq for the same time now, and this is also the issue of Afghanistan, that it is easy to say the good objectives we have, but if the internal development of that country does not start and there is no national dialogue and no agreement on the basis of it, then these good intentions will be left in the air. Or we must accept that we are permanently present and that we are paying for the troops as well as for development aid on a permanent basis. So, yes, I come to the conclusion that the international community should rethink this strategy for Afghanistan and make a strong contribution to this dialogue and that this increase in military power can only work in such a way as to encourage and help the Afghan parties to reach a common table.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u81	With regard to this speech by Mr Heinäluoma, I would like to continue: The Afghan truck mechanic and poet Matiullah Turab writes: ‘Oi,the world’s ticket bearers,who assumed that our security name was a threat to peace and security,as well as weapons and ammunition. “ — Puts the time right at the heart of the international community, precisely the speech that has fortunately been made here today on what we can do with a crisis management operation if we do not have an impressive peace process going on at the same time. We need a strong peace process alongside military crisis management operations and we need civilian crisis management to strongly support the security situation in Afghanistan that is currently very weak. I would like to ask the ministers: how do you see this, how can we bring a genuinely stronger peace process alongside the crisis management operation, because it was Taliban or Afghan, and war will not solve it? Peace and peace, a political solution, is the only way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u82	Mr President! At the beginning of its term, the Government had the objective of significantly reducing participation in crisis management. The plan was that troops would have been reduced so that in 2017 we would only have had 90-120 soldiers in military crisis management missions. Well, as we know, this has not happened, fortunately. The Parliament has decided on additional funding and military crisis management has remained at the 2015 level for some 500 soldiers. Today, too, we are prepared together to increase the number of soldiers in the Afghan operation. It seems that the government has understood the importance of participating in military crisis management as part of Finland’s foreign policy. Minister for Defence, of course. Niinistö flashed a few weeks ago about cutting out crisis management. So I ask the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence: what is the government's line now? Has it changed its mind since the government programme and wants to maintain a high level of military crisis management, what has it looked like in practice, or is it going to reduce participation significantly, as the Minister of Defence said recently? And do you think it would be sensible to establish a crisis management strategy by means of parliamentary cooperation so that we can avoid cooping and act on a long-term basis over the parliamentary term and together define the type of operations we are involved in?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u83	Mr President! Somehow I expected a strong taste of guilt, but it's okay. I have tested the resistance to social pressure before, so that it is familiar. You should think about why these problems of international conflict are so deep. There are wealthy countries and there are fragile countries. Quite often these prosperous countries are involved in the situation of fragile countries, and that is not so long ago. Take, for example, Africa, North Africa, the Middle East, Iraq or Afghanistan, where many countries have a very questionable heritage, both in the East and in the West. If you think that there has been war in Afghanistan for at least the last 40 years, then it can be summed up in such a way that foreign soldiers have a watch but the Taliban has time, and it seems to be there. In view of the fact that good objectives are recorded which are acceptable in themselves, and when time and again it has been demonstrated that the objectives set have not been achieved, then new objectives are set and new errors justified. And here I am using the wording that I have said on other occasions before that naïveism is not an idea, even though it is at the end of the word. Not to be fooled indefinitely by the fact that if you declare all possible good things, they themselves become real. But there's a war going on in Afghanistan, isn't there? On the other side there is not a UN force, but a NATO-led force, although there the UN decision is the basis. But let me remind you of what the Committee on Defence has said four years ago in its own opinion. It says: ‘The committee considers it important that,after the end of the military presence inAfghanistan, an evaluation process is being
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u84	Värderade fru talman! Trots att processen är utdragen och har stött på många motgångar är det nu skäl attdra sig till wheres de massmord och den barbari som hotade Afghanistan, och säkert större områden, med Talibanerna i spetsen när det begav sig.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u85	Mr President! In my reply, I will address development cooperation and development policy, and in my actual speech I will talk about military crisis management. This government report shows that Afghanistan has become the most important partner of Finland’s development cooperation. I remember very well the decision-making of Vanhanen's second government. There was an increase in the number of troops in Afghanistan, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence put pressure on the then Minister for Development to give more money to development cooperation as well. The then Minister for Development refused to do this because it was found that this was not justified in terms of the quality of development cooperation. Afghanistan is a very difficult environment for development cooperation. It is difficult to go there with the Finnish forces and to give money to international organisations. It's hard to even monitor what's going on in there. Effectiveness is weak. That is why I was opposed to an increase in funds and not an increase in them. But since then it appears that there has been another line, and it has been given to these political pressures. I do not think that this is good development cooperation, that as much of Finland's money is spent in Afghanistan as it is spent. I hope that this aid to Afghanistan will be examined in the course of the report as part of Finland's wider development cooperation and development policy, and that it will be considered whether and how this should be done in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u86	Reply, Minister Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u87	Madam President! Mr Pakkanen asked about the role of the European Union and what has been done and thought about it. The European Union has renewed its Afghanistan strategy in 2017, including four priorities: first peace, stability and regional security; second, democracy, the rule of law and human rights; third, economy and education; and fourthly, migration. The EU's annual funding is EUR 200 million. This is the fact. But then, if we think about this big picture, it is of course a regional picture. It's also a picture of the Muslim world. The Sunni Muslim-led Taliban. It's about power. It is also a matter of many parties — drug dealers, arms dealers — benefiting from this situation. There are a large number of actors who want this to continue, because they benefit from it, they spend money on it, they use violence to help them. But if we have spoken before this about what international rule-based cooperation is, then I cannot come to any other opinion than the experienced Member of Parliament, Ilkka Kanerva, who said here: the UN has given a mandate to this action. What is the larger mandate than the mandate given to this activity by the World Organization? And really, mass slaughters have taken place in the football arena in Afghanistan. Is that what we should watch while we have an international mandate? We can't do that. We cannot be numb in the face of this disaster. But the world is evil, there are not always optimal solutions, and when there are no such solutions, you have to be involved in making things more bearable, and that is the line of this government. You also have to think that every girl who got into school, every child who learned to read is better than no one could have learned and no one could have gone to school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u88	We will continue with Minister Niinistö's answer, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u89	Madam President! Representative Heinonen brought up a sad memory of the days of the ISAF operation when Jukka Kansonen died of an IED bomb and Pekka Jylhä was seriously injured. We must not forget these sacrifices that have been made in this operation and in other operations. And it is true that the Treasury was clammy at the time. The situation is better now, at least as far as the opinion of the organisations is concerned. I understand they have been satisfied with this programme of crisis management veterans, and the level of this insurance cover has also been reasonably satisfied.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u92	We will continue the debate with a 1 minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u93	Mr President! Surely it is justified to send advisory troops and self-protection to Mazar-i-Sharaff, a familiar Finnish region. The perspective of Afghanistan is not very flattering. Unfortunately, the security situation has deteriorated all the time. If you think about it from the perspective of Finland and Europeans, of course, the risk of refugees and the introduction of drugs into these areas is a clear reason why we also have a personal interest in getting things right in that area. Crisis management is needed, civilian and military crisis management, both sides are needed. At the same time, however, we must seek a political solution more forcefully, starting with the fact that the export product may not produce any results there, but that it must be found on its own basis as a regional political solution. What it is, exactly, is different. It's a local negotiation. But in any case, support is a political solution, because it may be more durable on the long run than living on weapons.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u94	Madam President! Crisis management is very important work for a more stable society, but, as has been pointed out here today, this alone is not enough. We must ensure that stability is sound and sustainable. And that is never the case unless we pay enough attention to the role of girls and women, and it is gratifying that many Members have spoken here today from this very point of view. It is important that respect for human rights in Afghanistan has improved in some respects in recent years, but we also know and understand that abuse and violence against children and women and child marriages continue to be very serious problems in Afghanistan, and they must not be ignored by any means. Therefore, Finland must continue to be very closely involved in its contribution. And under no circumstances should Finland compromise on these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u95	Madam President! As vice-chairman of the Committee on Defence, I was able to visit Lebanon, Beirut and South Lebanon with the chairman of the committee at the time of the May Day, and indeed the lesson of that journey is that such conflicts can last for decades and instead of military solutions, political solutions must be sought. And it should be said out loud that if we had not intervened in time, between the fighting parties, there would have been no such political solution in the Lebanese region either — only shells that the international community would have come to collect. It was also a pleasure to hear from the Foreign Minister that we broadly share in Parliament the importance of this international multilateral cooperation. However, I would like to ask the Minister of Defence very quickly: have self-protection issues been considered in Afghanistan? In Lebanon, too, the fact that the Afghanistan operation is of a significantly, much more difficult nature was highlighted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u96	Mr President! Last year, the EU also renewed this strategy for Afghanistan, and that was the key points of achieving peace and security and democracy in the region, improving the economy and solving migration. But in order to achieve these, I believe that we have a rocky road ahead of us, because today many ordinary citizens live there in the midst of poverty and terrorism, which means that there are many difficulties for the very ordinary person who has nothing to do with the situation, for example. But if we also talk about development cooperation, Finland has been involved in very good projects: this reform of the legal sector, education, tens of thousands of women have had literacy, and mine clearance has been supported for more than 20 years. And there are large mineral reserves, and the Finnish Geology Research Centre cooperates, providing expertise in ore exploration technology. It's been good, but we're going to have to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u97	Mr President! Last summer I visited Kabul and met not only President Ghani but also the guerrilla chief Hekmatyar and also Mr Mutwakil, former Taliban foreign minister. It was interesting to go through with them what has happened over these years, and indeed their idea was that the United States has not allowed such a peace process, which would be inclusive, in which these various parties would genuinely be involved, but has perhaps sought a different, military solution under the leadership of ISAF. And this same issue has not only resulted from the lack of genuine peace negotiations but also from the fact that the UN has been kept in the background. The UN has not played a coordinating role where it usually exists after the conflict, but has been pushed aside a little, because it has in a way been sought to find a different type of solution. Now, hopefully, the time has come for a comprehensive peace settlement to be sought, for the UN to play a central role in this coordination of aid to Afghanistan and for us to move forward in this way. On this basis, I believe that there should be a lasting solution, the Afghans' own desire for peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u98	Mr President! The representative, Mr Haavisto, did say the words of truth here. Yes, we must also be prepared to look critically at the activities and key choices of this Western camp. The former President of Afghanistan, President Karzai, whom we met on our trip to 2012, has now this week said out loud this fact: he has accused the West of not being prepared to engage in dialogue with the Taliban and to allow the construction of a new system in connection with it. And he also said frankly that when the meeting in Bonn met to plan for the future of Afghanistan after the attacks of that United States-led coalition, even then the Taliban should have been included in that meeting and not shut them out. Here we come back to the fact that when you go to a country with military force, it is easy to go, but then it is a question of whether there is a policy that allows the country to develop internally,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u99	Madam President! The road map must certainly be able to be created in order to stabilise Afghanistan, but first, of course, it would be good to find all the parties around the table. The Taliban are not a single group, but there are a wide range of sub-groups and other terrorist organisations, as we all know. I believe that strengthening the central government of Afghanistan and holding elections alone will never increase stability and security in clan society. If people in the provinces do not see that their lives are improving and they too are getting justice, including the poor and the women, then I do not believe that simply holding elections there will change the situation very much. This is something we should pay attention to. Then I can tell you myself that I went to Afghanistan in 2004 and saw very well-functioning projects. Marie Stopes is doing no sexual health, reproductive health and family planning projects in the middle of poor villages. There are religious leaders and village elders, and these projects work very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u100	Mr President! It is unacceptable that, at the same time as we are talking here about the recent deterioration in the security situation in Afghanistan, asylum seekers are being forced back into the midst of violence. At a time when the security situation in Afghanistan has recently shown signs of deterioration, Finland has sought to intensify the return of asylum seekers who have received a negative asylum decision, including through bilateral and multilateral return agreements. Among other things, Amnesty International has appealed to the Finnish Government to suspend returns to Afghanistan. At present, children or families with children should not be returned to Afghanistan. Mr President! The possibility of an internal escape should be applied only under limited conditions, taking into account, among other things, people’s ties and safety nets in the region, but in some places the Finnish Immigration Service has appeared to apply the internal escape criterion almost regularly, and the UN refugee organisation has had to take a stand, as the Finnish Immigration Service has done, to assess the possibility of an internal escape. In practice, Finland is in no way able to ensure what happens to people returned to Afghanistan when they land.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u101	Madam President! As a peacekeeper, I would like to point out that this debate sometimes goes a little bit like that when Finland sends soldiers to a crisis management operation, the soldiers would go there to fight. It is not so, but they go there between the negotiators to ensure that the negotiating situation is maintained. It's the Peacekeeper's job to be involved in that operation. It is not there to fight against those parties, as has been suggested here that we are going to fight there. In peacekeeping operations, it is good to remember the old wisdom that power needs to be shown so that it does not have to be used. It is the duty of the Peacekeeper, not to fight, and not to give the impression here that: Finland sends soldiers to fight there. It's not like that, my friends.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u102	Mr President! In the committee hearing, I asked the experts what was the deepest problem in Afghanistan. I got two answers. The first was that Afghanistan is not a state without the support of the international community, but collapses. The second answer was Pakistan. How do we influence Pakistan and this regional conflict that is in hand? - We're Then I asked where is the hope of Afghanistan, where it rests. The answer was that in girls — and I am very pleased about it — and in education. It is excellent that this has been made very clear today in this debate. But I would also like to ask the ministers: how do you look at this Pakistan issue, what can we do about it, because it affects Afghanistan so deeply?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u103	Mr President! I will return to what Mr Heinäluoma said about military intervention, and it is indeed true that the faster the departure, the slower the return, and it has been seen far too many times. In connection with this, I found some old stories that have been shown on Yle's channels and that have been in the Evening Magazine, and there have been interviews with former Russian and Soviet veterans from Afghanistan. They say the Soviet Union once made two mistakes in Afghanistan. The first was that the country was in the first place. Another was the attempt to change the way of life of local people by military force. I think you should remember that lesson today. The worst combination is that if we think that we are taking peace to Afghanistan, and that is not going to happen. It is our export goods, and the imported goods are international terrorism, which may also be directed at Finland. As surprising as it sounds, Finland can be a very interesting destination for those who think about such matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u104	Madam President! I would like to ask you this once again, when the Minister may have taken the view that the development of his own performance is no longer directly supported by these types of exercises. But do they not support it in maintaining performance, knowledge? Surely there is no more demanding international crisis management operation than our operation in Afghanistan in recent years. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on the way in which this maintenance of expertise within the Defence Administration has been considered in relation to these crisis management operations that are currently under way. There is also this reflection on these political solutions in the context of these operations. This report also highlights this multilateral cooperation and comprehensiveness. How, as Minister of Defence, do you see cooperation with the State Department in maintaining this whole thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u105	Responses to ministers, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u106	Madam President! This has been a good debate, because this is a serious matter and it is a very thorough one. Now it goes to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and then comes back to this Chamber. I think it is a good thing that this is really the way it is going to be done. In fact, at the end of the day, I would like to say, in my opinion, the essential thing that Mrs Kanerva said. Why are we in Afghanistan? It is the will of the international community, the UN, at the moment. That's why we're there. The solutions have been difficult and there have been no solutions at all for some, but I do not think that the solution at the moment is to leave a military, political, operational, development policy vacuum. Who's gonna fill it out? I think that option would be even worse. A key issue is the regional solution: Pakistan, Iran, neighbours, international cooperation. But if this could be a little optimistic, who thought that North Korea and the United States would one day be at the negotiating table? If there were any positive developments here too. At least it's worth a shot. However, I would like to thank Parliament for all the speeches, including the critical ones. It's democracy. But I believe that the government has received the firm support of Parliament in this respect, for which I thank Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u107	Madam President! I recognized a couple of questions from the Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kari, about this final debate, to which I am still trying to answer. This Resolute Support operation is certainly our most challenging crisis management operation in terms of risk, so it is right to pay attention to the self-protection of troops, as Mr Kari has done. However, according to the information I have received, the equipment is very good, it is relatively good, and you can ask for more information in committee, and in fact you should always ask in such cases. And indeed, as I said in my previous speech, this increase in participation to 60 increases self-protection in this case, and, in addition to that, the focus of the troops is clearly transferred to a more peaceful and familiar region, the northern command area, to Germany, to Mazar-i-Sharaf, as Mr Kääriäinen also said. In the city of Mazar-i-Sharaf, the rebels have only been able to carry out isolated attacks, but of course there is always a risk. As far as the maintenance of knowledge is concerned, I agree with Mr Kari. And as far as cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned with crisis management operations, it has actually worked better than a man's memory, so thank you to Minister Soin for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u108	Now we're going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u109	Mr President! According to press reports, the Afghan Government and the Taliban agreed on a cease-fire last Saturday. The Taliban announced that it would hold a three-day cease-fire so that the religious eid celebration could be held in peace after the Ramadan fast season, but NATO-led peacekeeping forces were not included in the ceasefire. The government, for its part, announced that it was going to put an end to the war for at least a week, but restricted the Isis fighters outside of it. The brittle was a cease-fire: Yesterday, the suicide bomber blew himself up at the gate of the Ministry of Rural Development and killed more than ten civilians and wounded more than 30 people, including children and women. Isis has signed up for the attack. The question arises as to who can be trusted. In the absence of confidence, the peace-building process is still difficult, even though positive developments have been made, both in the access of girls to school and in the overall improvement in the position of women. It is good for us in this Chamber to be aware of the risks that Finnish peacekeepers face in Afghanistan. That's what they tell you to go to Afghanistan. They all have previous experience in peace-keeping. We must not back down now because that is what the Taliban movement wants, but we must step up our efforts to train the Afghan Government, the public administration, the police and the army in order to strengthen democracy and the structure of society. A strong and united Afghanistan is capable of fighting rebel criminals. There's a lot of work to do, and it's gonna take a lot of time. Without international and many kinds of help, Afghanistan will not survive. Leaving it to its own devices is not the solution, but by doing so we will help the spread of terrorism to its neighbours and perhaps even further away. Afghanistan is therefore still a fragile state. Therefore, improving the security situation is a top priority for the country's development. Development cooperation has achieved significant results, as has been said here: life expectancy has increased and infant mortality has decreased considerably. Above all, Finland has invested in the development of basic services, especially in the education sector, including the provision of girls' education and the literacy of women. In fact, Afghanistan receives the most support from Finland’s development partners. In Afghanistan and neighbouring areas, 20 armed groups are estimated to be active, mainly in the drug economy. Afghanistan is the world's most important opium producer country. Many armed groups are competing for power. The NATO-led ISAF mission ended in 2014 and since then the security situation in Afghanistan has slipped downhill year after year. Following the ISAF mission, a NATO-led Resolute Support operation involving approximately 13,000 soldiers was set up. As a result of Operation RS, responsibility for security was transferred to Afghanistan's own security forces. Now the United States is proposing to strengthen the operation to 16,000 soldiers. Finland's share would rise from 40 to 60 soldiers. In the background of the reinforcement of the forces, there is, among other things, the strengthening and activation of Taliban in the run-up to the parliamentary and presidential elections. It is envisaged that Operation RS will be extended until 2024 by the decision of the NATO Summit in July. Currently, Finland has 30 soldiers in Afghanistan. Twenty of them are in Kabul and ten are in the north of Germany. It is now proposed that the number of Finnish soldiers be raised to 60 and that the majority of them be placed north in Mazar-i-Sharaf. There'll be a few staff officers left in Kabul. There would be one team of jägers, military advisors and trainers, as well as staff. I think the solution is a good one, because Finns have previous experience in the region and cooperation with the German group responsible for the region has been smooth so far. In Afghanistan, then, we are in a stalemate situation in chess terms. There is no military solution to instability; a political solution is needed. However, it will not be possible without the presence of international troops, so that development cooperation and civilian crisis management activities can take place. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u110	Mr President! I am here for the first day now to continue the role of MP and to learn the ways of the house. I have just learned that it is absolutely pointless to ask for actual speeches in such debates, because after the group speeches there will be a debate and after the debate the ministers will leave the Chamber and those responsible in the committees will leave the Chamber. Then we can have a three-way conversation here. Maybe someone in the study is still listening. You learn new things all the time. In my reply I spoke about development cooperation. There is nothing to add. When this matter was raised under the Vanhanen 2nd Government, it was decided to increase the number of troops. I opposed it, I did not think it was justified, but I remained in the minority and that decision was taken, but with regard to development funds I stood by. This operation in Afghanistan shows how crucial it is when it is decided to go along with an operation. If I remember correctly, there was a situation in Afghanistan that some NATO countries did not participate in the war in Iraq and then showed solidarity with the United States and the major NATO countries by joining this operation in Afghanistan. Norway was one of these countries, and when Norway, Finland and Sweden had close links with each other, we moved in this kind of Norwegian wake. Sweden then had a new military doctrine, according to which regional defence had been left aside quite a bit and focused on crisis management. It was a good idea for them to join the crisis management operation, and Finland then joined the crisis management operation. What happened here is that the camp or group of neutral countries was divided. Austria and Ireland, I think both, sent only a few people and a ticket to the headquarters. Instead, Finland and Sweden joined these forces. Subsequent developments have shown that it is very difficult to disengage if you go along. In that sense, that consideration at the time should have been made in a different way. Well, in any case, I think it is important that, in the context of the discussion of this report, a broader consideration be given to the whole of Finnish military crisis management. Mauno Koivisto wrote in his Russian idea book back in 2001 that Finland has taken the path of Charles XII: we use too much military resources outside the country's borders and we are not able to invest enough in defending our own country. Charles XII destroyed the Swedish army in Poltava and was unable to defend Finland afterwards. The scope and quality of military crisis management is also an important issue for consideration in the sense that new activities are being planned and developed throughout the European Union. For some incomprehensible reason, Finland has joined France as a leading force in the development of defence cooperation and common defence, and there is an ever-increasing development of crisis management. Last year a crisis management exercise was organised in Lapland with 100 fighter planes from different countries. I wonder what they were practicing, other than military attacks on targets outside the European Union. Otherwise, the European Union's crisis management activities will also aim to achieve ever more intense crisis management. Now that France took the initiative to develop such a tougher response, Finland already understood whether it would be worthwhile to go there. In my opinion, Finland must now carefully consider first of all how much we spend on military crisis management and then consider how it is shared between UN operations, how far it is involved in NATO-led operations, and, above all, what is being committed to within the framework of the European Union and what is being conducted there. In my opinion, it is very strange that Finland is here, in fact, alongside France, in the pursuit of these tough crisis management projects and in the pursuit of a common defence even for the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u111	Madam President! Finland is a superpower in civilian crisis management. It may sound like a worn - out saying, but it is by no means a coincidence. According to a survey published in spring, Finland sends nine people per million people to civilian crisis management tasks. This has put us at the forefront of the EU countries. Our position of power is a great achievement, and it is based on consistent work. We should be proud of the work we have done. Civilian crisis management is one of the areas of our foreign and security policy in which Finland has a greater influence on the international tables. Another very obvious statement for us is that of universality. Finland has chosen comprehensiveness as the starting point for its crisis management activities a long time ago. The totality bends into many. It's a political line. It's a political line. In addition to its own operations, Finland also promotes international cooperation. Comprehensiveness is also a way of working. All existing means, be they military crisis management or civilian crisis management, development cooperation, humanitarian aid or mediation, complement each other and are used for the same purpose, to support stability and peace. I believe that the importance of comprehensiveness will only be strengthened in the future. Unfortunately, crises are not diminishing, but the resources available, both for individuals and for the economy, can do so. Comprehensiveness is a cost-effective activity. My understanding is that there are still many opportunities for Finland to develop our operations in terms of comprehensiveness. The security situation in Afghanistan, which has been discussed today, has indeed deteriorated since the completion of the ongoing transfer of security responsibilities to Afghan authorities for several years and the termination of the International ISAF mission at the end of 2014. It was expected that the attacks would increase, and this has happened. As the violence continues, the battles have expanded from southern and eastern parts of the country to the rest of the country. This lack of safety is compounded by the increase in conventional and organised crime and the number of kidnappings. It is not estimated that there will be any substantial improvement in the security situation in the near future. Although Afghanistan’s main responsibility for security rests with its own security forces, international support for Afghanistan’s stability and security authorities continues to play an important role. Support for crisis management and the security sector in Afghanistan will also contribute to regional stability and international efforts to combat terrorism. A few words about women in Afghanistan, although they are, and fortunately they have been, there has been a lot of talk in this debate: according to Human Rights Watch, only 19% of adult women in Afghanistan are illiterate, 49% of men are illiterate. Almost half the women get married when they're under 18. The consequences of early pregnancy are devastating; statistically, one woman in 50 dies in childbirth. Girls who are married or engaged at school often have to drop out of school. And the background is not only cultural attitudes, of course, but also enormous poverty. Compared to the early 2000s, living conditions in Afghanistan have improved, but since rapid progress, progress has slowed down. According to the UNDP Human Development Report, life expectancy is 60.7 years, which is significantly more than the estimated 44 years at the beginning of the 21st century. In particular, the mortality rate of children under the age of five has decreased and more than half of births involve skilled staff. According to the Afghan Statistical Institute, almost 40% of the population live below the poverty line. In 2016, GDP was only $562 per capita, where Afghanistan ranked among the 15 poorest countries in the world. Much has been said here about opium production and, of course, it is hoped that it will stop, but it will never stop unless other crops are found suitable for the conditions in Afghanistan. Poor farmers from opium quickly get a good income, but the cultivation of crops, for example, does not want to become a business for them, that is to say, they should simply develop species suitable for those conditions. But at the end of the day, when time seems to run out, I would like to say that we cannot leave Afghanistan alone at the mercy of the Taliban or other terrorist organisations, but we must continue to help them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u112	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u113	Mr President! I would like to thank you for this government proposal to end the calming down of the female as of 1 August 2018. In spite of the fact that the walrus, or hakkinen, is a coat of arms of my municipality, Sauvo. I do not know why such a choice has sometimes been made — the female is actually a scavenger — but apparently because: There is a high church and a church tower, and the female is a church bird, as they say. Transferring the female to an unsettled bird is a very important measure. Over the last few years, the population of the female population has grown strongly. The walrus causes damage by, among other things, blocking chimneys and other structures, mixing the environment with its feces and destroying nests of other birds. The walrus also causes damage to agriculture. The damage seems to be particularly concentrated on south-west Finland. The damage caused by the female has increased and most of the damage is not known to the authorities, since claims for compensation and the search for an exemption are only the tip of the iceberg. Nevertheless, the disadvantages shown are significant. In a resource-saving way, stopping female tranquillization solves many problems: paying compensation, frustrating search for permits and delaying permit testing. Mr President! I should like to thank Minister Leppää for doing more than that. After all, he has intervened in many important matters, including by facilitating hunting time by prolonging the hunting of a white-tailed deer, which in itself is a nice animal but is extremely difficult for agriculture and transport, for example, when it occurs so abundant here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u114	Mr President! Mr Kiviranta has just brought up arguments, and this is an extremely awaited government proposal in the provinces. In view of the disadvantages that the females have caused both for the industry and for the population, that level of compensation is indeed only the tip of the iceberg. In that respect, this problem and this financial burden, which has been involved in compensation for damage, are not in such a way balanced, since neither compensation nor the write-off permit from Ely in Varsinais-Suomi has certainly been prepared to apply for it and has been affected by it. We are now in the process of reaching a situation in which, after 1 August, the female can be stopped and, as a result, a significant increase in food safety can be achieved when it comes to livestock farms, where the female also contaminates the raw materials of food in animal husbandry. Also when you look at summer time, summer markets in different parts of Finland, it is quite clear that there is such a health risk for all of us. For this to be seen as a holistic issue, these matters must be taken into account equally. Then when you think about the fact that this can also be taken into account in the future as a handicap in real estate like this, it will also greatly improve the image of the city when these can be chased away and stopped. The fact is that the opinions have also become a different point of view on this issue, but in view of all these arguments which I have just mentioned, we are now in the process of getting a good government proposal to the committee, and I am sure that this is the quickest way to get the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u115	Madam President! Nature conservation has its own value. I would just like to say that we rural people have always been conservationists, but we are well aware that if the stocks become excessively large, then they must also be removed and there must be the ability to solve the problems. This government proposal is excellent and very welcome. Finally, progress has been made. Of course, it has already been possible to remove the females if the damage is to be done to the building or to the yard, but now, of course, this law opens up a completely different possibility of bringing this position to its senses, if you say so directly. The assessment of the current situation has made it clear that the stock has grown strongly in the 21st century. The number of couples has been up to 110,000 nesting couples at the beginning of 2010. It's a very generous position. I remember very well myself when I have been the chairman of the game management association in my own municipality for a long time, that the hygiene damage is very strong in the church villages, and especially in areas with dairy activities, milling activities, there are very many females. They are the vectors of all diseases, and against that background, this solution is now a good one. It must also be noted that over 400,000 compensations have been paid each year, and it seems quite reasonable that this does not make any sense. At the same time, if a female has died somewhere and it has been found that a crime has been committed, it has become a fine of EUR 101. As far as legislation is concerned, much remains to be done. It has been said here that they are not sufficient to limit the position satisfactorily, and it is very, very good that a new opening has now been made. At this stage, however, I would like to raise a few other issues with regard to protection when there is a chance. We have now moved forward with regard to the female, and for this, of course, I would like to thank Minister Leppa very much. I think it is high time, when the ministry certainly reads our speeches, that I believe and hope, that this cormorants stock, which is beginning to be part of the coastal regions of the coastal regions, is also affected by the pollution of the landscape. Here, too, I think it would be good to move forward. I also know that the white goose population has grown large, and when it does not know those borders very well and flies outside the Finnish borders, hunting is immediately possible. Here, too, it would be good to have uniform practice in the European Union, because we are like the Community in this European Union. I think it is high time that these protection measures were put into uniform practice. At the end of the day, of course, I hope that when the bear populations in Eastern Finland have grown exceptionally large, the Ministry will use its powers and give a sufficient number of bear permits, that game animals can be hunted in these areas in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u116	Madam President! I am in favour and I am very pleased that this amendment to the hunting law will now change the law so that the walnut is added to the list of unsettled birds, i.e. the oversized walnut population will finally be reduced without the current bureaucracy. Of course, many of us are harmed and harmed by even the very large population at local level, but, especially on farms, the stock of females causes economic losses, for example, by pecking bales and increasing production costs in a variety of ways, especially when production farms are protected from highly arrogant females. In addition to the unfortunate, harmful and economic costs, the very high local populations of the females at worst create a genuine disease risk and thus also a livelihood risk. Diseases spread by females to food have not been reached, but they have become considerable additional costs for the food chain. Mr President! The females do not only mess up and pose a risk of disease on farms. Last week, a meat farmer told of the females who attacked a newborn calf. The females attacked the calf of the suckler cow that was born in the nursery and sought to peck the soft hooves and eyes of the still defenseless calf. The female is not a very sympathetic animal, even though she is the coat of arms of Sauvo, as Mr Kiviranta told us earlier. Of course, calves are less likely to be born into pasture, but when this happens, especially in Uusimaa and Varsinais-Suomi, this overgrown female strain is a real pain in the ass. Of course, even in view of this risk, it is always the case that calves are not born into pastures, outcrops or farms where the females are allowed to enter, but when it comes to natural rhythms, this is not always successful, and it is therefore very important that we now have less red tape to thin overcrowded females. This amendment of the law is very welcome and long-awaited. I'm glad it's coming along.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u117	Madam President! The bird of death, as we used to know, is very common today in a large area. I think Finland is nesting well over 100,000 pairs of females today, and the differences are regionally significant. In fact, to some extent, it might also be worth considering solutions of this kind in the future, that such decisions would no longer cover the whole of Finland or such large areas, but rather perhaps consider regional solutions, if we really feel that there is a need for more women in one area, because in the big area they have certainly not been needed for a long time. And if the influence of the female, the dead body, were as it was supposed to be in the last few days, then I would no longer have this speech, for every day I see hundreds of females around my own district and church village. For the first time in the early 2010s, I was contacted by Loppi farmer Aulis Nikkola, who said that something had to be changed. I asked a written question then, but the Environment Minister, Mr Niinistö, did not consider it necessary to take action on this issue. Crops of grain, dozens of hectares in a moment, the females destroyed, also destroyed bales of fodder, destroyed the roof of the old church, roofs of many other churches and old buildings, pipes, flutes — not to mention the amount of feces that came into the environment, for example. I was thinking that we should leave the situation alone — Niinistö, Niinistö of the Greens, was not allowed to expect a change in the situation. I renewed my question at the beginning of this government, and that was when the matter began to receive a more positive green light, thanks to Minister for the Environment, Mr Tiilikainen and Mr Lepänen, Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, and now we have a proposal to remove the female from the list of protected animals and birds. Of course, this normal nesting period calm would still be preserved, even after that. Mr Reijonen made an excellent speech, and I could almost have said that I agree with it and ended my own speech on it. That is exactly what we have in the countryside today. We understand environmental protection, nature conservation, but moderation in everything, and that is what this has been all about. And I agree with the fact that, for example, cormorants are the following, you might say, a plague. They are already spreading to the lakes of southern Finland, and it remains to be seen at which point the damage is beginning to be the same as in the archipelago. Unfortunately, we have already seen situations in which people have taken the right to their own hands, which of course I am neither in favour nor recommending, but it reflects the situation, the frustration that there is no legal opportunity to intervene, such as the complete destruction of their own cottage island within a year. Then the geese and others are also significantly increasing. That is perhaps why I wanted to take this opportunity to thank Mr Nikkola, who raised my mind and my concern for this — I had not paid attention to it in that way, even though I have watched many flocks of females on horseback. The second reason was that we should consider such regional solutions, that it might be possible to dismantle a large part of a calming decision, for example, and, if necessary, a region could be left behind if it is perceived that populations, for example, are not sufficient and sustainable. And I do not believe that, in fact, any rural person is going to kill a female if the death birds of individual couples are occasionally seen flying in the sky. I would like to thank the ministers from the centre, Mr Leppä, the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for the Environment, Mr Tiilikainen, for taking action. This law is already coming into force in August. In other words, when the calming period of this baby season ends, it will be possible to keep old buildings, new buildings, but also that our agricultural crops will remain our food.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u118	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Heinos, as did Mr Reijonen with regard to the previous speeches. I asked for the floor because I thank Mr Heino for this speech in that he very well described the situation in many areas. At its worst, the situation is as dramatic as the representative described in his good speech. Let me add that I also understand that it may be difficult for those who do not live there or have not experienced the problems caused by this oversized population to understand the content and extent of this problem, both locally and regionally. It may even be a problem experienced by one farm. Females can fly from far behind to eat, disrupt the production and operation of one farm. It may cause a very local problem which, as Mr Reijonen described for the farm or industrial plant concerned, is extremely difficult in the current situation, for example for dairies. But it is also good to emphasise, of course, as Mr Heinonen has pointed out, as Mr Reijonen has also pointed out, that it is not a question of destroying a single species, but of the fact that the stock can be regulated much, much better and more flexibly than it is at present. The female must have her own place in the Finnish ecosystem in the future, but these oversized, overly dense stocks, which cause very serious problems, must be able to and can be reduced in much easier ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u119	Madam President! The amendment to the Hunting Act in this direction, as proposed by the Government, is very good and justified. There are many species in Finland that could be hunted in such a way that nature would not actually suffer at all, quite the contrary. The female is a good example of an explosion in its position. The same has happened, as has been the case in this debate, for example with the cormorants, which are beginning to show huge damage. For example, everyone has been on a boat trip to Stockholm. On the way you can see the islands that have died in practice. All the trees have been destroyed and cause irreplaceable damage because the recovery of nature in these areas takes a tremendous amount of time. I hope, Mr President, that in Finland the balance will finally be struck in hunting matters, that we can genuinely manage the positions. We have a good example, even if it's the management of the wolf population. After all, we have been given the impression that the wolf is an endangered animal, although it certainly is not. We must remember that there is a huge wolf population on the west side of Ural, and Finland is on this edge of the region, on the western edge, an area where there are a huge number of wolves, if not enough, in the view of some people locally, quite certainly too much. In these hunting matters, unnecessary fanaticism should be thrown away and a reasonable approach to the management of stocks, which is the only way to do so. Hunters in this area will certainly shoulder their responsibilities, know their jobs, and, above all, we have very good knowledge in this area from hunting organisations and also from other sources and, of course, from the Ministry. Why aren't we taking advantage of it? Unfortunately, many species are listed on the endangered list of the European Union's Habitats Directive, although it does not belong there, and it has caused the situation we have in Finland, for example, with regard to large predators. I would like to see some sense in this matter. This government proposal is a good one and very worthy one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u120	Madam President! There has been a good debate here on the matter where reason is finally winning, and we will be able to thin out the sandstocks in areas where they cause damage and are a problem for both old buildings and newer buildings and, as has been pointed out here, also for the food economy and agriculture and many others. But, in fact, one of the messages of this debate should be that we should also look for more flexible ways in these cases, for example, when calming works, and it may be necessary to have easier national means of eliminating problem individuals or problem populations. This is not just about individuals, it is about larger groups, and it was precisely the pain that, for example, the Loppi farmer Aulis Nikkola carried on his neck for a long time. At Lope, we have had a very rough population, perhaps for some twenty years — at least what I myself remember. During this time the damage has been extensive: the old church roof has been renovated at least a couple of times, with a large number of female populations being part of it. Even then, it might have been appropriate to find lighter ways of dealing with a very large regional population. And when I looked at the old churches in Turku, for example, it has been necessary to make exceptional decisions in old buildings to protect them from the disadvantages of such fast - growing bird species, and then to look for them. Quite a lot is said about wolves or other types of problem individuals, but it should also be possible to talk about problem populations, which may be very destructive locally.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u121	Madam President! To the extent that the situation that has developed in Finland is visible in my municipality of residence, Ilomants, for example. Everyone knows that the crow is a cultural animal, it seeks to get its food more easily, quite natural, but it has happened in my municipality of origin, at least in the suburbs, where the females have taken over the industry and the crow has had to give way. The old fellow crow has had to give way to the female this time. That in itself would not bother us at all, but the problem is that their behaviour is sometimes extremely aggressive, as Mr Heinonen well described, and this is something that needs to be addressed. That is why we Finns should come to our senses in this matter. This is an excellent example of wolves. There have been dozens of near-miss situations with wolves in recent years. Yet we are given the impression from the Natural Resources Center that there is no problem. Should a child lose his life that we are gradually beginning to believe that the situation is serious? The wolf belongs in the wild forest, there he gets to run completely free and get his food, but when he moves in the yard, it doesn't belong there at all. In the recent debate on the management of various animal populations, game stocks, or whether an animal has been completely protected under the Nature Conservation Act, we need to reach a civilized level in Finland. We have taken nature conservation to such an extent that it seems that every single variety must be protected, even if the regulation of the stock is the only way to get things right. For example, I can mention a bear. We Finns have been fed that it is a nice Teddy Pooh with whom it is nice to live and be with. The opposite is true. My friend told me a case where a bear came to the yard when strawberries were collected from the field. The bear ate strawberries on the other side of the garden bench, and people were on the other side of that garden bench. It doesn't make any sense. It is an immediate life-threatening situation, especially if the bear has puppies nearby. It's an immediate life-threatening situation, and this is just a game. How many more people still have to lose their lives, believing that this doesn't make any sense anymore? The stumps have exploded, and hunting soon seems to be a crime in itself, if anyone engages in it. That weekend I visited a person in Kainuu, and there are so many wolves in their territory that children are afraid to go out alone at night. They're under curfew. You can't go out on your own and play with friends, kids your age, you have to have a parent with you so you can play that it's safe. Continuous wolf visits in the yard indicate that this business has gotten out of hand. The conservationists at our house are talking about the need to protect these animals. There is nothing here to protect but the selfish thinking of man from his own ideal. We must be able to protect these stocks, of course, but we must also be able to regulate them in such a way that they are removed and, in particular, those animals which do not behave in a species-by-species way. For example, a wolf will certainly not behave like a species if he comes to the courtyards. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-12-ps-64.u122	Madam President! There have been extremely good speeches here, and it is here that the whole point of reason prevails. Here we see the overall way in which we can begin to punish and reduce these super-positions so that they will certainly not be so harmful to the industry in the future. It is also a fact that Mr Tiilikainen and Mr Leppä have taken over this matter on a rather fast schedule, and now we are here to deal with this in Parliament so that it is possible to do so from 1 August. Here, among other things, Mr Heinonen has made extremely good, detailed speeches on the level of handicaps, measures — many other representatives — and it must be said that we can also come to the situation in the future, that we will have to think about the way in which we will then be able to eradicate this dog that has been transferred to the hunting law more widely from its territory, because this laundering time soothe remains, which is, of course, also terribly important from the point of view of nature's ecology. But the fact is, there has also been a great risk. Fortunately, nothing significant has happened to the food safety of these animal diseases, which are also being moved by wild animals to the farm. This has been a very significant risk in the hands, and that is what we are going to reject. And it must be borne in mind that neither do the entrepreneurs of the industry who have been in much contact with this issue during these years want to completely remove the female from the ecology system of nature. But it is a fact that the disadvantage must be eradicated. Well, of course, there have been many different possibilities at the moment — the sound effects have been used to getting them out of there — but as you can see, the natural animal is also accustomed to various distractions and comes again and again, and it remains the same place in it. Then, considering the compensation that has now been compensated for the damage, over 400,000, it is indeed just the tip of the iceberg. If this had culminated in a serious increase in animal disease pressure on livestock holdings at some point, we would have had big problems as to how insurance cover would have covered the dairy farm, the beef farm, or anyone’s actual damage.
