ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u1	Eija Nivala, a vicar from Kalajoki, a master of theology, who has become a deputy from the constituency of Oulu instead of Mirja Vehkaperä, who has suspended his duties, has presented me with his mandate and has taken up his duties today. — — — — Welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to inform you that the President of the Indian Parliament, Mr Sumitra Mahaja and his party have arrived to follow the plenary session. On behalf of Parliament, I welcome honourable guests to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u4	Madam President! The Government's proposal to amend the Act on roadworthiness testing and some other laws is under discussion. The proposal relates to the key project for streamlining the regulations contained in the Government Programme. The present proposal forms part of the second two-stage roadworthiness review project. In fact, the reduction in the first stage is already visible to the public in a concrete way, for example, so that cars under ten years of age no longer need to be surveyed annually. In the first phase, it was also decided that no roadworthiness testing obligation was to be imposed on motorcycles in the future. In the second phase, too, the regulation-level regulation has been continued, including with regard to the obligation to inspect museum cars, which is to be facilitated. The Government proposes to simplify and streamline permit regulation for survey activities. The survey activities would now move from site-specific permits to operator-specific licences. A permit for testing would justify activities at several sites, and one permit should provide all testing services. The current distinction between roadworthiness tests for light and heavy goods vehicles and fixed-term and special roadworthiness tests would be eliminated. At the same time, the obligation to provide all survey services would be waived. It would therefore be up to the operator to decide where and what services would be provided as long as he made a notification to the Finnish Transport Safety Agency. Simplification of permit regulation will facilitate the establishment of new testing stations and enable the development of tailor-made service concepts. The possibility of selecting categories of vehicles to be tested would result in more and more spaces being suitable for testing stations. At the same time, changes are also proposed in the monitoring of survey activities. These changes would shift the focus of control from ex ante control to ex post control, as the current start-up checks at the time of issuing site-specific permits would be eliminated. This will free up public authorities' resources for ex-post, risk-oriented supervision. In the same context, the Government also proposes technical clarifications on the regulation of taximeters. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has had a lot of discussions on this subject with the Ministry of Labour and Life, the Finnish Transport Safety Agency and the Safety and Chemicals Agency, and these discussions have concluded that the law adopted is not sufficiently unambiguous in relation to its objectives and thus does not provide sufficient legal certainty for operators. It was therefore considered appropriate to clarify the regulation in order to interpret it and apply it as intended by the legislator. It was necessary to bring the matter before the law entered into force in July so that operators could be assured that a sustainable solution would be sought. The matter was launched on a timely basis and incorporated into the Government proposal on survey matters without a separate consultation due to the uncertainty that has just arisen. There was a separate discussion of the procedures and process with the Chancellor of Justice, and the conclusion was that this could be done, especially given the technical nature of the matter and the consultation of the relevant authorities. With regard to the regulation of the taximeter, the objective remains the neutrality of technology and the possibility of application-based solutions. The aim of the amendments already introduced in the first phase of the Act was to make use of the possibility in many countries of allowing other measurement methods for different types of transport, in line with the EU Measuring Instruments Directive. It is now proposed that the tax measure rule of the vehicle law should be specified in such a way as to clearly reflect the statutory measurement function under the EU Measuring Instruments Directive. The taxi meter should therefore be used if the price of the journey is based on the measurement of the distance and time and the ride has not been ordered and paid by means of a technical connection. In the case of vehicles ordered and paid for through technical access, systems are required to have sufficient reliability of the measurement data and the level of data protection, as is already the case with the amendment of the vehicle law already adopted. It is therefore not a substantive amendment but rather a clarification of the wording of the law. The specifications would have no impact on Kela's procurements, but public-subsidised transport can continue to require the use of a tax meter, as Kela has now done, for example. The only meaningful change in the rate indicator would be to transfer their full control to the Finnish Transport Safety Agency. This would clarify the division of labour between the authorities. It is appropriate and legal certainty that the control of taximeters is concentrated on a single authority. The Act amending the Act on Vehicle Inspection Activities is intended to enter into force in November 2019. Other laws are intended to enter into force once they have been adopted and adopted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u5	Madam President! This proposal therefore proposes to amend the law on roadworthiness testing. According to the proposal, the roadworthiness test activities of vehicles would remain subject to authorisation but the current licensing regulation would be amended so that the permit would be granted in the future on an operator-specific basis rather than on a site-specific basis, as is currently the case. In addition, the current allocation of permits between different types of roadworthiness tests and roadworthiness tests for light and heavy-duty vehicles would be abolished. The operator-specific authorisation is justified in so far as most survey stations act as chains, in which case equipment, requirements and operating cultures will be passed between sites. The removal of the licence allocation cannot be fully supported. Although most of the survey sites operate in chains, it must be possible to ensure in legislation sufficient skills for testing heavy goods vehicles which are highly different from light equipment. According to the proposal, the obligation to carry out all authorised roadworthiness tests would be removed. The removal of the obligation to carry out all roadworthiness tests should increase the services of periodic roadworthiness tests on light equipment. On the other hand, the number of stations providing demanding technical changes and type surveys is falling and possibly the price is also rising. This is likely to focus special surveys on specific stations, and then knowledge will develop again. The requirements for further training of surveyors would also be reduced by this presentation. In its work, the committee must assess the balance between the impact of different levels of training and experience on eligibility for duties after this proposal. Madam President! In the same context, the Vehicle Act and the Measuring Instruments Act would also be amended in relation to the components of taximeter regulation. The amendment would clarify, as previously approved by Parliament, the situations in which a taximeter should be used. At the same time, the monitoring of compliance with the Measuring Instruments Act and the Market Surveillance Act for certain products would be transferred from the Safety and Chemicals Agency for taximeters. To the Transport Safety Agency, Traf. With regard to the first phase of the Transport Services Act, many of us may remember that the interpretations of the LVM of the Measuring Directive, a taximeter or similar, were subject to heavy criticism. And now it inevitably comes to mind that we are looking for a more appropriate interpreter of the regulations. Tukes has a desire to comply with the directives and the Measuring Instruments Act. It should be noted, therefore, that when the Minister is present in this Chamber to present this matter and still present in the box, does this mean, Madam Minister, that only Trafi, under your ministry, can enforce the law as you mean by the LVM? Tukes has strong experience in monitoring technical measuring instruments in various fields. Is it not the task of the MinTC to promote legislation in such a way that an independent supervisory agency can interpret it without risk and not to propose a change of supervisor? It should also be noted explicitly that the legislative proposals for amending the vehicle law, the metering instrument law and the market surveillance law were therefore added to the proposal after consultation of the consultation and the legislative evaluation council. This is a technical amendment aimed at clarifying the text of the act so as to be interpreted as intended by the legislator. For this reason, no separate consultation was considered necessary. And it is quite understandable that, among other things, the Taxi League is really at fault that they have not been consulted since this amendment, and that is why they have not been able to say so now. In that sense, this latter change, which relates to these matters on the tax and taxi side, will certainly be a source of work and reflection in the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u6	Madam President! Representative Mr Taimela spoke well before. Let me start by saying that this survey activity is now being presented with a change of principle, from ex ante control to ex post control. Many questions arise from this proposal, and the most important of them is why the surveying activities and measuring instruments are linked together. The Review Act should have entered into force from the beginning of November, so it would have been a good time to prepare it at this stage and it would not have been necessary to prepare it in such a timetable of urgency for what will then be required for this situation of measuring instruments. With a stick to the eye, who remembers the old ones, but I can't help but recall the discussions in this Chamber and the amendments to the articles that we put forward in this Chamber, among other things, when we decided on traffic services law number one. It was clear to us then in the opposition and in the SDP that we are going into this sort of uncertain situation, just as the minister in the toilet confirmed earlier that this strengthened law is not sufficient for its legal effects, and the law comes into force after Midsummer. So I understand the concern and I understand that we urgently need to change that instrument law, but what comes out of these policies I cannot understand. The introduction suggests that the Taxi Federation has been consulted. Yes, The taxi association has been consulted on this part of the roadworthiness test but not on these measuring instruments. There has been a clear message that this taximeter is controversial and increasingly unclear and disparate, treating entrepreneurs in different ways. It would be necessary if, in this urgent timetable, you now want this instrument law to take forward, so that these sections of the survey law can be excluded from it. We would already have so much work to do to bring this law into force as soon as we have confirmed it here. However, we would not be able to make good preparations in that regard either. Finally, Mr Berner, it has been suggested in this proposal that the control of taximeters should be transferred to the Transport Safety Agency, but, at least, since we do not yet have such a transport safety agency. We have a motion on the Transport Safety Agency that is just being discussed. Are we going to make a law here giving tasks to someone who does not yet exist? Isn't this gonna be good?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u7	Madam President! This reform is a long-awaited reform and will bring a survey exercise for this millennium. Authorisation regulation will be lighter and the number of unnecessary roadworthiness tests will be reduced. I regard this as a good proposal as a whole. These shortcomings have already been highlighted here, and I believe that these will be taken into account in committee in a special way. I do not see that as an obstacle, even though there are still some of these key issues open here, that this proposal could not have been made, so it is good that we get this before us and forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u8	Madam President! Mr Kymäläinen raised this particular question of the metering of the government's proposal. I personally think it is a very good thing that the Minister and the Ministry have brought this matter, which is also a matter of urgency in this government proposal, which was already being dealt with in the case of transport services, both here in the Chamber and also in the Committee on Transport and Communications. At that time, all the members of the Committee on Transport and Communications also had a great deal of discussion on the question of taxometers, and it was felt that this should also be followed up. I still think it is a good thing that this issue is now also being addressed, because this has been a great debate over the last few days and a new so-called taxi law, the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u9	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u10	Madam President! This government proposal is very important. In the case of surveys, it is good to bring more alternatives to those regions and, in particular, to regulate that not everything needs to be checked at the same site, to enable entrepreneurs to make different testing points. The government's proposals, which have already taken place — that is, not having to take a look at motorcycles and facilitating the roadworthiness tests of museum cars — are also a good basis for this. The survey activities in Finland have been heavily regulated over the years, and now that we go to this point, that different types of survey stations are being created in Finland, I think this is a good reform, and it is good to move on from this. Well, as far as this tax measure is concerned, this is an important issue to clarify at this stage, since 1.7. The new law will come into force, so that the same rules will then be followed again in that respect. There has been a debate here on taximeter regulation when the law was being drafted — of course, it was very much debated in committee, but this is a good, clarifying proposal. This government proposal lays down unambiguous rules of play on the matter, comes with legal certainty, and especially when the price is determined by the distance and time, this importance of the tax meter is emphasised in that matter, and I believe that this is a necessary reform. And why do we have to do this on a fast schedule now? This is, of course, necessary because the new law will enter into force on 1 July and we need to know what rules of the game will take the matter forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u11	Madam President! I'm going to go backwards now and say that you won't just forget. Let us not think in this Chamber that this is something new to travel pricing. Each car has a meter, and the entrepreneur himself determines the price of the meter. It's not like it's any kind of bliss. In my opinion, this is a positive thing that this instrument was returned so quickly. I do not think it is bad at all — if there is also hope that we can have a debate on how and how, at certain times, certain trips will then be priced, but that is hardly possible in this context. If I leave this negative side — even if there are positive ones — then when I think of Traf's statements in relation to the law on transport services and the commenting that was not taken at all as a matter of concern that there are no indicators and regulations at the moment, it was a little shuddering in those comments. This means that this wild and free activity, when the control of meters and measuring equipment is transferred from Tukes, who is committed to the directive so that the measuring instruments are compliant, would somehow be a more reliable path than the reform at this point and, therefore, the transfer of functions does not necessarily give the customer the confidence to proceed sensibly now, where we are. But I must say that this survey activity in Finland has needed reforms. They've been made. When you remember as a little boy when the surveyors in the village market were looking at those cars, we have gone a great step forward. It is also good that we are able to increase standards and flexibility in roadworthiness testing, and in that sense I welcome this with a positive mind. But this transfer of measuring instruments to political guidance at this point, especially to someone who is very much, could I say, was sympathetic to the fact that this kind of wild and free activity will be evened out — it is hoped that when this committee comes to committee, when this is opened, it will be possible to return to that pricing through these indicators.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u12	Madam President! After the war, when I watched cars in the '50s, almost all the cars were driven out and the safety devices were a bit like that, not just the steering joints, but often the brakes and tyres. Since then, car technology has taken huge steps forward, and the question has been asked as to whether it is worth using the nation’s resources to survey cars — I am talking about passenger cars, light traffic. Obviously, the fact that motorcycles do not need to be surveyed suggests that it has been understood that this whole entity does not come to reasonable use for the national economy, which is what these car roadworthiness tests take on human working hours and so on. As I recall, there is no need to look at cars in the United States. Of course, when the roads were being salted in Finland, it was worth looking at the key structural elements, whether they were rusty, but now these problems have been largely corrected. The Norwegian Ministry of Transport examined whether it would be advisable to use this amount of resources for the survey compared to the transfer of similar resources to on-road inspections. Of course, unfortunately, a large proportion of fatal accidents are suicides, but what remains is mostly due to what is between the wheel and the seat — or in the rings. I doubt that it would be appropriate to take this reform forward and see at what stage, for example with regard to the latest equipment, this could be completely abandoned or moved to the point that, if the car is maintained, attention should be paid to the duties of the car guardian in relation to those places which involve risk. Then there's this cab meter thing. When a market store requires time-specific measuring equipment to sell carrots or kappa potatoes, yes, in this, I would say, in a documented world, it should be possible for all cars to have a set of instruments from which both the customer and the tax office can reliably conclude that no overwrites and other things happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u13	Madam President! Mr Lehti made a good speech, although of course we must remember that there are many kinds of car fleets. For example, I come from the keeper of the gas meter, whose text says ‘situated for low use’,and there is only nine of them,and this picture of the car population in my home keeper. Nevertheless, it is precisely this gradual progress of the survey that could make sense. As far as new cars are concerned, one might wonder how much longer the survey interval could be safely extended and whether it would be possible to come back to them later on. When the taxi reform comes into force, there will be a lot of fears there, but I also hope that when equal demands are made
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u14	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u15	Madam President! This reform of the legislation on roadworthiness testing is an extremely good project. It is worth remembering, however, the fact that the world has moved forward since the beginning of the survey activity in Finland. I remember a trucker saying back then, at the time of the old law, at the time of the former procedure, that when this new one came and the surveying activities were released, he, when his truck had been surveyed, thought and said peacefully that for the first time he found himself a customer who was important to that surveying agency. That earlier treatment, perhaps a little colder, turned into a friendly service. This is the line we need to continue. And remember the fact, as Mr Lehti well described in his own speech, that the maintenance of today's cars has changed quite a bit in the case of newer cars, even by means of the fact that when the warranty requirements require that the customer spends a certain amount of time in the maintenance of the car in order to maintain the warranty, the maintenance man will certainly see all the points that the car is in order. And with older cars, too, you should remember that professionals working at today’s service stations are very responsible men and women, and when they care for the car, if they find that a rail rod head or some brake discs or others have worn out, they will certainly point out and discuss with the car owner whether they should be replaced in order to make the journey safe. So we have changed into a time that is extremely good and in keeping with today. It is worth recalling this digital technology as another example of modern goodness. After all, it is possible to locate the faults of existing cars through a computer connection alone, what is wrong with the car, that is to say, there is no longer so much room for error in checking the car, and when the number of tests is reduced by the laws that have already been adopted, a reasonable benefit will be achieved here too. In my opinion, these measuring instruments are quite rightly dealt with in this law. There have been huge developments on this side, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u16	Mr President! Car surveying — heart beating, nervous. You're wondering what's going to happen this time again. Well, luckily, we have a very competent and competent group of people watching that car, whatever the situation is with that car at the moment. The whole purpose of the legislative reform is to reduce red tape and increase security in all these areas. It is a good thing that this review of the roadworthiness law now also draws attention to the fact that the most important thing is that the cars are good and fit. Bureaucracy is definitely getting lighter here, and it is worth it, because the technology of cars has developed very much. Cars in our traffic are always better and better and more secure to move than before. Now, about how to deal with cars: Technology has evolved, and it really does not need to be surveyed as much as before. When digitalisation as a whole has increased, it will also help this car survey. It is good that we can take the car to different places for inspection, to different places. Especially when I have a long way to go to the nearest checkpoint, it makes me nervous. Well, that car didn't go through the first time, but it was easy when I knew there were other places I could use when I could, to see if I had fixed it the right way. The law on transport services is a huge piece of legislation, with which we in the Committee on Transport and Communications have worked impossiblely. It was a very bold move to go and build a reform package of this size at one time. It didn't turn out to be perfect at the same time. In phase one, things were done, then in phase two, and a lot of things were already achieved. Perhaps this whole survey should have been a little earlier, but given how impossible our ministry has already been preparing and working on this whole, yes, well done. It may be that we will soon have some other minor points to correct in this legislation on transport services, but we will definitely move forward. I must say yes to the Minister that we have made such good progress on these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u17	Madam President! At the beginning, two observations. Firstly, when some shortcomings or gaps are identified in legislation, even outright errors, it is very good and appropriate that they should be corrected and corrected. The starting point is that there is a need for reform in the field of surveying, but we in the committee would like to do that work properly, because it will also have a major impact on people's everyday lives and lives. We would therefore like to make a law that does not have these mistakes and shortcomings that we would have to go back to, especially since there is no urgency requirement here. This Act is expected to enter into force in 2019. But there is a need for change to this measure, which really requires more precision, so that there is clarity on the road for operators and especially for customers and users of the service. That is why I am continuing to repeat the question and wonder why the survey law was linked to the treatment of taximeters when this taximeter issue is in a hurry and this survey law is not in a hurry. And I will continue to ask the reason why we could make legislation here which would refer control to the Transport Safety Agency, which does not yet exist. We do not know what form that agency will take. I do not know whether or not I am paranoid, someone may think I am, but there is a feeling that with these other legislative proposals we are now trying to force this Agency into force. Then the argument is that we already have this control law in place for these indicators, where the tasks are carried out by the Transport Agency and so on. But at this time — we are now living in Midsummer Week, and for the time being it is known that we will be working here after one more week of Midsummer — we will be able to deal with this vast package in the Committee on Transport, where we have countless other major tasks, such as the Road Traffic Act, but it is quite urgent. Or we are in a situation where we do not consult experts. This, too, is no longer unusual in this house today, but I would like to see this policy not extended to all committees. So I am genuinely concerned that we are not in this big package during the week after Midsummer and the week after Midsummer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u18	Madam President! There has been a good debate here about the survey and the need for it. Personally, I would like to remind you why cars are surveyed in Finland: Yes, the most important principle is, of course, your own safety, so that the tested car on which people move is safe. Its own security is that first angle of income and then all the others. The representative of the magazine did well to compare it with the rest of the world. In that sense, the fact that motorcycles do not need to be surveyed is an important issue. Road transport then has the resources and control of the police on which motorcycle roadworthiness tests are carried out. To this issue of the Measuring Instruments Directive: I would also like to remind you that this measurement task is not defined by itself in that directive, but remains a national decision for us, and it is important to take it into account. That is why I think it is important that we are now dealing with this issue, and it is our decision now to have tax meters available for the ordered ones, where to order rides. When the price of the trip is based on time and bound to the journey, it is good to have a taximeter. So it would not be this kind of market phenomenon, but the taximeter will also give you a receipt, and the consumer would then be able to assess the price of the journey and how it was determined and how it is formed. On the other hand, I think society and others will always need and ask questions, and of course the tax authorities will be left with a mark in the future. But, in particular, the obligation to receive receipts and receipts will be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u19	Madam President! When Congressman Pakkanen brought up the motorcycles once more: Now such a phenomenon has arisen — when the mobile police substantially reduced road traffic control and moved on to tinting police — that when motorcycles do not have a registration number at all, they are completely out of sight. You can drive it as fast and in the wrong lane or whatever, and the police can't track it. Here, too, there is a risk that the so-called light motor vehicles — which are said to have less power but have enough power to allow the speed of the wheel to exceed 200 km per hour — will be able to pass the tin police, and nothing will follow. The same may be true of the fact that driving without driving licences has become more widespread when the mobile police do not have the resources. Young people assume that if you get caught, there is such a small possibility and you can always explain that you were random. And in practice, quite a few people fail to get a driving licence for this very reason that the police have moved to the tin police. I've never seen a tin cop ask for a driver's license more than I have seen you drive under the influence of drugs or alcohol. There are quite a few worrying aspects of how this has been done. From the point of view of road safety, of course, it could be said that when so-called mopeds were allowed in Finland, this means that the risk of injury with them is many times higher, when cars with a much lower cost could have allowed young people to move in a safer vehicle.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u20	Mr President! You have to give the government a positive thumbs-up about rationalizing the survey. That's all right. But these taxi meters have now come up, and I now want to give direct feedback from taxi drivers from Varsinais-Suomi and also from Satakunta. Yes, they are concerned about their income. They have calculated that if the income has been 40000 per year, after these reforms the income will fall to about 32,000, and this equipment is one of the things that goes with the money, so the Minister should also consider what to do with this, since these taxi drivers in rural areas in particular are perhaps already part of the process of quitting their entire profession. It's a tricky thing for people in rural areas, and then the taxis you know don't run anymore. In this Taxidata, which now guides the whole area in Varsinais-Suomi, the requirements are quite tough. These individual cab drivers are on a roll.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u21	Minister Berner, you can talk about that place for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u22	Madam President! Thank you for the debate. A few aspects of this survey law. The requirements of the surveyors will not change in this context, and extensive consultations on the survey law have also taken place and the proposal has been considered to be very balanced in this respect. The whole surveying activity cannot be abandoned. This is an EU directive which also brings us certain minimum requirements which are now being implemented under this law. The law on transport services is indeed a very big change to the transport system, which has also been mentioned here in the Chamber. It is clear and I understand very well that this also brings a lot of concern, a lot of debate. It is also important that, when uncertainties arise, we should also be able to seize them quickly and take them forward. As regards the taximeter, the legislative amendment has been prepared in a very good spirit with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, Tukes and Trafi. There has been agreement on this proposal and it is clearer for operators that there is one authority that monitors the meters and there is no device-specific authority that monitors which device. At the same time, we have wanted to ensure by wording that it is clear that there is a statutory measurement function under the EU Measuring Instruments Directive and that there is confidence and clarity within the actors, as Mr Pakkanen has also said here. In addition to this, when reference has been made to the fact that we are ahead of us, we have stated here that operators should report to the Transport Safety Agency, which is our current Trafi, the existing authority, or later to the Transport and Communications Agency, if, at the time possible, Parliament approves the reform of this agency. In this regard, we are asking for this point of view and we will also keep this in mind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u23	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u24	Mr President! I am very pleased with this proposal. We in the Confederation of Fisheries, which I chair, have had a great deal of discussion on this issue, which is now in the presentation, and now it seems that things are moving forward. The first is the adoption of a law on the national implementation of the European Union's common fisheries policy, and it proposes to clarify the system of fishing quotas per operator in order to clarify the procedure for allocating individual fishing quotas. In this regard, it is important that we should be able to develop the whole of our fishing for the Baltic Sea and, in particular, for the coasts. For Finland, the volume of commercial fishing, especially in the seas, has completely collapsed. For us, the number of fishermen on the coast has been falling very much, and at the same time the fish for sale, the domestic fish, has decreased a great deal. Then where did this fish get off the coast? The number of seals has increased so much in our seas. So there has been a huge increase in the number of grey seals and Baltic elephants, and they are beginning to have a huge impact on our fish stocks, especially on the coast. Now what we should be able to achieve at EU level on these seal issues is how we could commercially exploit seals. Finland has been granted an exemption from the fact that we are able to hunt both a grey seal and an eastern seal, but they must not be commercially exploited. So where do these seals go from there? That's what I ask, and many others ask, thinking. And what is the point of even trying to ask, because asking for them is really difficult and difficult? Well, at one time it was of great economic importance to Finnish fishermen that seals could be used. It is not possible at the moment, and now we only have the hope that at some point in the EU we will understand that, once we have been given some permission to ask for them, they could also be commercially exploited. Another problem we have with coastal fishing is the number of cormorants. In a short time, ten years, the number of cormorants has also grown exponentially to a very high level. The cormorants do a very bad job on the nets. I'm from the inland, and we once had a cormorade in the lake. It was passing from north to south, but what one cormort did with our nets: We were fishing for whitefish there, and when we have surface nets for that whitefish, it really did a lot of damage. One cormorants managed to destroy a large number of whitefish, and large numbers of holes were found in the nets. Then what happens when an attempt is made to catch fish on the coast of the sea and there are a thousand cormorants and they are there all summer? In a few days, I already had so much work done by one of the cormorants. Last week I visited that nearby coast to see commercial fishing activities, and the fishermen were in total trouble. They said that in practice they can no longer fish with nets at all, and the use of the traps has been very limited, because they are no longer able to fish at all and there is no fish left to catch. In other words, we need to get proper stock management plans and results from the cormorants. Mr President! The second thing that is involved in this proposal today is that, moreover, according to the proposal, the first sale of salmon from the Baltic Sea caught in commercial fishing from the river basin would be allowed only to commercial fishermen who have notified the Centre for Economic Affairs, Transport and the Environment that they intend to fish for salmon in the river basin during that year. This is a very important performance. That is why it is important that even now we have huge quantities of salmon in the market, where no one knows where they really are, whether they are from the river, the sea, the Swedish side, where they come from, that who has not necessarily acted honestly here. They have been asked and commercially exploited by the river, but now the most essential thing is that: The Tornio-Moonion River is the most important breeding area in the Baltic Sea region. In that area it would be very important for the salmon to be able to get up properly. The other summer, 100,000 salmon rose, which was a record record for a long time. Last summer, there were only 50,000 of them. For some reason the amount was significantly lower. It would now be important for us to be able to ensure that the number of salmon in the river continues to be very high and we know where the salmon will disappear or remain. The first important point is that the number of seals in the mouth of the Tornio-Moonion river and then these norps can be reduced so that, in general, the salmon can rise up from there. The most important thing about the Tornio-Moonion River is that when the value of salmon caught in a river or sea or purchased directly from a store is only a few euros per kilo, so when it becomes a tourist product it is up to a thousand euros per kilo, which means that it is so important for tourism and economic products and activities that it is definitely always better for the fish to rise to the river as high as possible and then for us to make tourismal incomes. Thank you, therefore, for this proposal. According to this, we will then move forward so that we can hopefully improve our entire fishing activity, get jobs for people and get Finnish fish on our table.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u25	Madam President! The main objective of the Enforcement Act, which entered into force from the beginning of 2017, has been to improve the profitability and operating conditions of commercial fishing. The system of transferable access rights and individual fishing quotas aims to improve the ability to plan and implement fishing in the most cost-effective and market-friendly way, in order to improve the profitability and capacity of professional fishing. Thus, the main responsibility for the use of fishing quotas has now passed on to fishing companies and professionals, when it used to be in the state. The aim of the present proposal is to strengthen the achievement of the original good objectives of that implementing law. It is therefore a good thing that the procedures for allocating fishing quotas are further clarified. The proposal also contains an important addition to the fact that, in fact, the Baltic salmon from river basins are obliged to be labelled in the same way as the salmon from the sea. The purpose of this is therefore to improve the control of salmon fishing, which is very much to be welcomed. This proposed new law slightly reduces the role of the Ely Centre, or in particular the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomi, in fisheries management — that Elyhä Varsinais-Suomi is responsible for the fishing tasks of the sea area in the whole country. Decisions on individual fishing quotas for operators would in future be taken only once a year, except in the case of trawl fisheries. This is how rule Finland becomes clearer. Although the obligation to label salmon caught in commercial fishing from river basins slightly increases the role of public authorities and commercial fishermen, this arrangement clearly improves the ability of public authorities and fish trade to monitor that only legally caught salmon are taken for sale. This bill has no material impact on public finances. Mr President! It is worth noting that extending the labelling obligation also to salmon fishing in the river basin will improve and clarify the awareness of fish trade, including consumers, about the origin and legality of salmon catches, and will improve the control, monitoring and control of salmon fishing in the same river area, and then the value of salmon on the tourist fishing side will indeed increase. In the case of salmon fishing in the so-called ‘terminal areas’ of specially built rivers, only farmed, fat-finned salmon should be selected, not, for example, the wild salmon stock of the river Simo or Tornio in the mouths of the Ii and Kemi rivers. These terminal areas in the estuaries were originally set up specifically to enable the efficient fishing of farmed salmon. For this reason, in these estuaries, in terminal areas, fishing arrangements differ in many respects from other salmon fisheries. It is very good that the Act of Enforcement 6a§ This draft law has now included the possibility to set maximum levels for salmon catches in river basins and restrictions on the composition of salmon caught in river basins. This possibility should be used to ensure that, in future, salmon fishing in the estuaries of built rivers is only targeted at farmed salmon stocks. This procedure also supports the objectives of the national fisheries road strategy and the salmon and sea trout strategy, as the main river areas for commercial salmon fishing are also among the top priorities of that national fisheries road strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u26	Mr President! Indeed, there is a lot of good in this implementation, and we in the opposition and the SDP also welcome this with joy. This is a good thing. Of course, it must be borne in mind that this issue of the quota system is quite a new entity, it is so recent that it is still impossible to draw conclusions from its operation. However, as the representatives have rightly pointed out here, the good news is that, when we have had the problem that salmon in trade, unmarked, cause uncertainty for consumers and operators in the sector and, as a result, have made controls more difficult, this change will clarify the situation. But, of course, all in all, something must be done about our fishing industry. We have a problem both in inland waters and at sea that profitability is challenging, and it is particularly challenging for us in Inland Finland to support ourselves with fishing. But of course, when you look out the window today and see what the weather is like, you can tell that many are out there fishing now. And, of course, if there was any hope from the government for the rest of the season, there would be legislation that would ensure that the fish was delivered. It is, at least in such a personal way, also a challenge for us, the chairman of the recreational fishermen, which is an age-old challenge every summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u27	Madam President! To begin with, Mr Skinner's wish for an improvement in catches: it is probably one of those fishmen's and women's issues, it is up to personal skills, and I wish colleagues and colleagues good luck and success. But with regard to this bill and the increase in catches of fish in this country, it would be very much to be hoped that, at last, legislation will be improved, as is currently being done here, to increase the use of domestic fish. Now we have an unfortunate situation in Finland that huge quantities of fish are still imported from abroad to Finland, even though we live in the world most within the borders of a country with lakes and also a sea area. There are plenty of opportunities here for additional use of domestic fish. And what has now been much discussed about fishing in the Finnish lakes and is, for example, this section of the Fisheries Act, which contains some problematic points where fishing is prohibited, among other things, from flowing waters, I would very much like to see a sensible solution in that area too. It is such a thing that when you visit a big lake you can see the situation really, or even in the sea area: last summer I was visiting a friend of mine on a boat, there was boating one day, and the amazing thing is how few fishermen there are, really, quite individually, boating communities here and there — nothing to do with the Finnish economy. This is also a matter of health. If we can increase the use of domestic fish, it is a very positive thing for human health. Fish is a healthy nutrient and, above all, it improves all these things that are important to human life, including blood values. However, what Mrs Maijala said in her speech about this grey seal and the Eastern Norpe situation should really be influenced by the common fisheries policy to really bring about some sort of control of the grey seal and the Baltic elephant problem, as well as this cormorants. After all, it is absolutely incomprehensible that we have — professional fishermen have spoken about it ten thousand times that these seal and noose stocks should be able to be cut and, above all, exploited. There is no point in removing that animal from the wild and then not taking advantage of the benefits. It's the housekeeping of a fool, that kind of housekeeping. Let it be that the European Union has become such regulations, and I am absolutely convinced that if, in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and in the political decision-making in Finland in general, a small amount of people were to think of the interests of the Finnish people, then we could really make these natural resources an opportunity for us — and not just a forced bolt — so that when an animal has been removed, even now the grey seal, the benefit of it would be used, and it would be an onion. And to Mr Skinner, at the end of the day, I would like to welcome the tight lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u28	Mr President! This government proposal is a good one. To this end, the common fisheries policy of the European Union will be implemented. After all, Finland took a new course in fishing for salmon in the Baltic Sea in 2012, and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry was then proactive and active in this regard, and it was great that the government also listened to the views of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, because that is part of the reason why salmon is rising today to the Tornio River, for example, and it is the recreational fishermen who thank it, and the regional economic importance is different from that of fishing with nets. Of course, these issues should not be overly contrasted, but when we are currently in the best fishing season, I would point out that if there is a common fisheries policy in the European Union, quotas and the obligation to mark in river areas, which is also the case in this government's proposal, then monitoring must ensure that these agreed rules of play are complied with. It must be a public secret, and it can also be found in the documents that Poland is currently failing to comply with the rules of the European Common Fisheries Policy. It overfishes, and then it has a negative effect on the catch of all other fish, and we will then have to assess what the appropriate quota quantity for Baltic salmon is. Somehow we should send our greetings from the Finnish Parliament to the Commission to tighten up and put more pressure on Poland, that this overfishing, poaching and other reporting, which allows overfishing of salmon, will be brought under control, because it is the most important factor for the credibility of this system as a whole. With representatives of the people interested in fishing here, it would be good to hear their opinion, too, but now that we have good salmon rivers and at the moment we have started fishing in the Teno River — the fish is not going to rise very much at the moment — at least I think that quotas and controls should be introduced there too, because it is a guarantee that we know how big these catches really are.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u29	Mr President! It's good to continue with the representative. On the floor of Mr Eestilä. So, first of all, from Teno: I fully agree with Mr Eestilä on these points. I also think it would be good for Teno to introduce the same thing as the Tornio-Moonion River, which means that one salmon per day or two salmon per day at most, and to know how many of them will come. Of course, Teno has now introduced this reporting obligation, after which we will know how many salmon are going to rise, so it is now being announced. It is also a great thing that Teno has finally put these fish counters in place, and now we know how many salmon are going to rise in the river. There are fish counters already in use in the Tornio-Moonion River, and it has now gone quite well for salmon to rise again. But now from Poland: It was shocking to hear that 30,000 salmon have apparently been poached, which is ten times more than that country’s quota.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u32	Mr President! Much has been said here today about salmon, and that is good, but as has been said, there is much more to fishing. But in my opinion, the key issue is what kind of value added we can create for fish, what kind of value chain, and in particular watch exports, because there is a crying shortage of wild fish in the world or in Europe alone. Therefore, Finnish pike and other fish, even it broke, are absolute quality products when they are properly prepared. I was able to learn from myself in Northern Finland and Kuusamo, which is where I said hello. But we also have a huge potential in our inland waters when we look at the fish business as a whole. In that sense, too, I hope — Mr Leppä is not here — that even more new and more effective measures will be taken to ensure that our fish are processed in such a way that the producer is not covered enough and that it is a profitable business. We must learn to brand our Finnish fish products, to make them international export articles, and that is quite clear. But then there's Teno's quotas. I fully agree with the honourable Members that we could well look at this quota issue, because we must, however, avoid the disastrous situation of last summer that permits are not allowed. I was there myself with the children, and the situation was very difficult, and international tourists too had to turn back. They did not receive permission from the Finnish side, either they went to Norway to get it or they had to return to their country of origin. In that sense, too, some kind of quota system would be good, and we could quickly do that so that it could reach us next summer, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u33	Madam President! Talks that taste like fish. Let us hope that it is also possible for coastal fishermen to get salmon stocks to such a level that we, in the Satakunta, can also get salmon on the tables — quite domestic so that we do not have to settle for Norwegian bag salmon. But it is precisely how the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, as Mr Eestilä described well in that regard, has consistently gone to catch the bull by the horns and to support the fishing volumes on the basis of a scientific assessment. We still have a lot of work to do, and one of them is that labelling must start to take place, but it must also be brought to domestic and leisure fishing. In Finland, we have been struggling with this same issue, so that we cannot know how much salmon comes into boats from recreational fishing – it has now been assessed in the committee's hearings, when there was talk of quotas, that a very significant part of what is going to rise, especially in Denmark, but it is only based on estimates, how much it is going to rise. We can't know the fish mortality. We have very serious problems, particularly with regard to the misreported fisheries in Poland. We in the EU need more to unite: I do not want the EU in our forestry sector to create a common forestry policy, but perhaps there must be some unity in this fisheries policy. And it should concentrate even more so that it is more in the decision-making process of countries on the Baltic Sea coast and which contain spawning rivers than it is, in principle, a completely uniform European and EU regulation. We must take account of the fact that the spawning river principle is the starting point for regulating international fishing, that there is a right of pleasure in the countries where salmon rivers exist, and that they also have, as it were, a right of preference. Well, what would that mean under the law, would we be losing in Finland or not? We've refurbished the salmon rivers, but... — Excuse me, Madam President. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Madam President! I tried to be there for three minutes, but for some reason the salmon is accelerating to the limit of a hundred MPs. — In other words, we have a lot of work to do, but I would say from the point of view of Parliament that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has been able, in good agreement on these matters, to move things forward in such a way that opinions have sought to guide the large committee on what to do and how to act in a balanced situation. But I would like us to clean up this nest of our own in terms of leisure, domestic fishing — not because the recreational fisherman needs to be punished, but because this is a common cause, because salmon stocks are better off and we know its true fish mortality, what we catch in the sea area and along the river. It is the starting point that we need to have facts about how things are going to happen. Within the EU, Finland must send a strong signal that if we use EU funds for fisheries control, the reports that are produced for fisheries control now, for example for Poland, must be transparent, they must be available to the EU in order to assess whether the fish stocks are correct or whether it is really the case that if the quota is low at 6,000, then there will be a significant increase in the number of misreported salmon, precisely as a sea trout. But just a little while ago on this domestic issue: Welcome to Satakunta to see how lake fish is being fished, how to make steak. Seven kilometres of carbon footprint comes from Pyhäjärvi. It is handled by the same lake and almost also processed by the same lake. So we have a chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u34	Mr President! Representatives Eestilä, Maijala and Myllykoski raised these fishing quota regulations in different EU countries, and indeed Poland, for example, is violating them. I believe that we should be bolder in raising these issues and opening our mouths on this issue. If we are simply wondering, then things will not improve, but if such regulations are not complied with, then we must take a tougher stance and impose tougher sanctions. Yes, we eat only 20 percent of domestic fish. It's very little. But if you think of a farmer, if you think of a professional fisherman today, you can't do that profession or do it in any way if it's not worth it at all. Fishermen have been talking about these problems for years, but this is the real issue. I was at one of our coastal fishermen in Varsinais-Suomi. There were representatives from Kustavi, Skysalo, New Town, Houtskär, who are doing fishing for a trade, and they said that soon we will have to put our whistles in a bag. This problem came with the increase in seal populations, the abundance of cormorants, especially there in the New Town direction, in huge numbers. Of course, as much as I like animals, you have to have your senses in your hands and see that the stock does not get too big that it harms, for example, professional fishing, and it is really important that Finland gets domestic fish on its tables. Whether the food is grain or pork or fish, the original labelling, where it comes from, must now be fully put into practice, that people and, of course, consumers know what kind of food they eat. However, it is high time that, for professional fishermen, we were forced to deal with these problems so that they could pursue this profession and continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u35	Madam President! It is indeed the case that the use of Finnish fish should be radically increased. I understand this salmon problem that it is a rare fish and is clearly endangered, and, for example, for the lake trout in North Karelia next summer, a major change in the structure of the Kuurna power plant will begin so that the natural flow into the river can be restored and the salmon can rise. There is genuine work being done here on behalf of the indigenous original lake trout. But how, for example, salmon spawn in the northern rivers is clearly monitored and monitored. This should be the case if salmon stocks are to be strengthened. Such abuses by Poland, let us say, have been left unreported and fished a lot, much more, in any case, we must be able to eliminate them. But what is missing from this country and I think there is a very big problem and even a sort of tragedy, is when we have a huge number of inland waters in this country, but the fishing level at the moment is very unhappy. Let me give you an example: measures are currently being taken in the river basin of Puruvesi with EU funds to clean up certain bays of Puruvesi. There was an experiment, a fire of cleansing when there were a few lush bays, and 32 tons of fish went up on the five seines, and all this fish went practically to the mink and fox gardens for food, minks and foxes for food. Well, it's a good thing it even went there for food, because otherwise it would have been in the ground hole for the whole crop. But this illustrates how much fish there is in this country and yet we bring most of the fish to Finland from outside the country's borders. We should be able to do better in this country. I understand these squirms of European Union policy and bureaucracy, and here there is one law that takes the common fisheries policy forward, but yes we should be a little more selfish in these matters, that we should deal with these stocks, such as the grey seal and the eastern seal, and, in the case of cormorants, we would act as others would, in order to cut off the oversized stocks and restore the right balance to nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u36	Mr President! Let's just say we're racing each other. Thank you, Mrs Myllykoski, for giving me the opportunity to familiarise myself with the activities of Satakunta. By the way, it was very nice, good and useful to visit Pyhäjärvi to see how these things have been taken forward. There is this NAM project, which has achieved a great deal of results. So we have made use of secondary fish as very decent products, and then the Apets have put good fish steaks on the market in the right way to the amount that has been achieved with a massive amount of production activity. Some of this was inland fish, some of which were secondary fish coming from the sea, yet things have been well made forward. There are far too few of these fish processing sites in Finland. Well, there are few of them, because we no longer have many fishermen, so we really need to get this organized in a new way so that we can make it work. Of course, in agriculture and in many other matters, we have the same problem that people no longer go to the mercy of the weather and to the mercy of nature. The beasts belong in nature. Our role and mission, however, is to influence the natural cycle and the whole as humans so much that we have to live in balance with nature, and the number of these beasts must not increase quite impossible. As a human being in a reindeer farm area, I have had much to do with bear, gluttony, lynx, wolf, machetes, and there has been such a reasonable balance in these matters, so that the beasts can live in nature but in such a reasonable amount, so that all other life can be practiced there. Now, at sea, I've been able to get to know the seal and the cormorta situation, and it's really bad. Things are definitely not right there at the moment. They're beasts. Measures must also be taken in the right way to reduce these predators. I'm a friend of nature, but I'm still limited in all this. Then there's the refurbishment of the currents. It is great that we have money in the budget for these. Let us hope that we will continue to make progress on these salmon issues. In the case of private road law, we discussed how we should ensure that fish are able to travel and spawn in smaller waters. Then the last thing I'm gonna do is bring up a pike. We have a great fish called pike. That is something that tourists would be very interested in. It's a very good fish, precious. Why can't we use it properly?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u37	Madam President! I would like to point out here that the government's proposal as such is a good one. This is precisely the question of improving the possibilities for traders engaged in commercial fishing to transfer quotas, which came into force from the beginning of this year, and now this reform is still trying to make it possible to make sense for professional fishermen to make this issue of profitability a priority: proposing the right to exceed a quota of 10% per fisherman by national legislation, which is particularly good. And then there is the fact that those of us in that estuary who declare that they are engaged in commercial fishing will be given certain flexibility in the time of the hunt and will thus be able to operate. For several years now, it has been a practice for us in that neighborhood to ask for salmon earlier. We simply came to see whether it was an opportunity for one trap, or whether it was on a journey — I do not, unfortunately, recall what these amounts were. But the project is a good one, because we also need to safeguard the ability of professional fishermen to exploit our salmon stocks, which hopefully will continue to increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u38	Mr President, värderade talman! Här har variantt många goda talturer. — Good speeches on fishing, including Skinner, Elomaa, Hoskonen, Maijala and Myllykoski. Mr Skinner also spoke well about this value added and the importance of exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u39	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 3/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u40	Madam President! Thank you for the floor. — The proposal is in itself a good one and the committee is also unanimous in its proposal. The report itself is also rather brief and succinct. It is not necessarily a matter of very significant or big changes, more of making things more flexible and easier. Hopefully, the financial system for vocational education and training, for example, will also be able to increase faster responsiveness and flexibility and thus away from it. But perhaps it is precisely the share of strategic funding in this proposal that prompted the most debate during the committee consultation, if you look at expert opinions, for example. There was some kind of concern for sure that it would not be like giving birth to a new path and again like this new project funding channel, which then to the school, a single educational institution, is always an administrative burden. I am sure that the wider debate highlighted the need for further development of this funding system for vocational education and training. Further transparency, flexibility, including the involvement of students, was hoped for in the future. All this also supports the previous opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, where the Committee on Education and the Media has also made it compulsory that every autumn be followed up and explained how this funding model works. And now, in this own report, the committee points out that this new funding, which could be provided through the amending budget for strategic funding, would also be part of this report. So it is possible to follow it all the time, and perhaps even the experts who were concerned about this proposal are reassured by the fact that the committee will also follow this situation, so that no threat will materialise as was raised. The second point raised in the consultation and related to this presentation relates to student feedback. This was more of a technical concern. Experts from educational institutions pointed out that now that the student feedback system comes into force, the system is still quite weak, and there was experience or knowledge that at present it may even require manual work, which is once again out of other resources. So it was hoped that urgent action would be taken to make the system national and functional — precisely this type of electronic system, so that its student feedback, which is already being collected a lot, would be as smooth as possible. It was seen as valuable, but the system was simply hoped for more agility, so that it would not, as it were, give rise to extra, unnecessary work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u41	Mr President! I could ask Mr Toivola when he knows these things better. I met the principal of vocational education and training at Upper Savo some time ago, and his concern was that they would lose funding because part of the funding is calculated on the basis of the youth age groups. They become students from 130 municipalities, and there are one of Finland's toughest export industries hubs, so business there is a serious chronic shortage of skilled labour. And now that this funding comes from the youth age groups and there are, of course, fewer youth age groups and children in Eastern Finland, it does not, in a way, reward the good work that the Upper Savo Joint Municipal Authority for Vocational Education and Training is doing, because it is so attractive that students come all over Finland and what the business community requires. How did you deal with this: is this a fair financial system when it partly comes on this basis, or did this arise in any way during the hearing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-18-ps-68.u42	Madam President! This real question was not, as it were, raised at such a specific level. I myself would think — and I do not know this particular case so well — that this strategic funding is actually about that. Perhaps you could also agree with this kind of situation that if during the period as it is stated the need to react as quickly as possible and needed for it to be more funded, then through the amending budget it is precisely Parliament that would be able to increase this funding as well. And this is probably also important from the point of view of educational institutions, because certainly the hearings also had the concern that the ministry would move more about this kind of time accumulated power over how money is distributed. It was also important for the committee to point out that it is Parliament that will then make this decision through the amending budget. But this is certainly a question which the committee should also follow up on in that autumn's assessment.
