ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u1	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. On the basis of the report YmVM 1/2018 vp of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the opinion on the report is now decided. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, I can give you the answers I have considered in order of one or two minutes. The debate on this point will take place until 3.30 p.m., that is, an hour and a half. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 3.30 p.m., we shall proceed to the next item in the order of business, i.e. paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u2	Mr President! The Finnish Climate Act, which came into force a few years ago, set long-term targets for reducing climate change emissions. A little more than half of Finland's emissions are controlled by emissions trading, which in practice includes the traditional so-called chimney industry. The reduction in emissions from other sectors, such as transport and agriculture, is subject to the medium-term climate policy plan, KAISU, on which the Committee on the Environment has now adopted a report. In the context of the Paris climate agreement, the EU has announced its emission reduction targets for 2030. As a part of this, Finland aims to cut emissions from non-emission trading sectors by 39 per cent compared to the 2005 level. The KAISU plan clarifies and complements the energy and climate strategy adopted in 2016 and is the first non-emission trading plan on which the Committee on the Environment has presented a report. The plan covers transport, agriculture, separate heating of buildings, waste management, fluorinated greenhouse gases (F-gases), machinery and the part of non-emissions emissions from industry. It is estimated that the actions of the plan will reduce emissions in addition to the emission reductions caused by the actions decided earlier by approximately 5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Emissions trading steers emissions reductions in its sectors at EU level, but national action is needed in other sectors. The Government must monitor the implementation of the emission reductions and decide on any further measures, which of course will also change the plan. In future, the Government's annual report will include a climate annual report in which Parliament regularly receives an overview of the impact of the measures in place. The Paris climate agreement states that the emission reduction commitments made by world countries are not yet sufficient to achieve the main objective of the agreement, namely to halt climate change by well below 2°C, preferably closer to 1.5°C. It is therefore very likely that the EU will have to tighten up its emissions target quickly. The Committee on the Environment stresses that Finland should act in the EU to ensure that global warming can be kept within the limits of the Paris Agreement. This means, in practice, tightening emission limits. The Committee stresses that ambitious climate protection is an opportunity for Finland and the EU. It creates the basis for the growth of environmental technology companies. Innovative means of reducing emissions will bring benefits beyond emissions reductions themselves: they will also provide new export products and better competitiveness. The committee stresses that, in order to fully realise these opportunities, it is necessary to actively promote new creative experiments and to dismantle structures that maintain a high level of natural resources... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u5	Thank you. — Then Minister Tiilikainen has asked for the floor for three minutes, please. Then we go to the list of speakers, we take three speeches, they are all representatives of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and then there will be a debate. - But now, Minister Tiilikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u6	Mr President! I thank the committee for this reading. It has been thorough, as is usually the case with the work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in this House. When the medium-term climate plan was submitted to Parliament, many things were still pending in EU decisions. Now we are in a situation of much greater certainty. The ultimate purpose of this is that Finland is fully committed to the Paris climate agreement, keeping the global temperature rise below 2°C. That is why, as the chairman of the committee pointed out, we have an energy and climate strategy and then this climate plan, which looks at emissions reductions outside emissions trading. Together, these two liner papers guide Finland's efforts to implement Finland's contribution to climate policy. Those EU decisions, which have been completed since the adoption of this plan, have actually given strong support to this plan in Finland. On the emissions trading side, emission reductions are sufficiently strict, but the key industry receives free allowances for well-functioning installations. When we come to this side of burden sharing, in those negotiations Finland’s contract for a 39% emission reduction has now, as it were, been closed. As far as transport is concerned, a significant part of that objective will be achieved, and the Minister of Transport will probably tell us more about it, but there will then also be plenty of measures here in the field of machinery, agriculture, waste management, heating. The main measures there are, for example, the abolition of state oil heating, the introduction of a blending obligation into the fuel of machinery, the aim of the emissions trading is to transfer waste incineration — it is under investigation at EU level at the moment — and then agriculture, for example, is preparing for afforestation, increasing biogas production and exploring how to better bind coal to the soil in the future. All in all, those decisions at EU level were put on a good model for Finland. Among other things, the sustainability criteria for renewable energy for solid biomass are in good shape and the raw material base for transport fuels seems to be broad enough, although there is still no final touch in the main trilogues of Parliament, the Commission and the Environment Council. With regard to this committee's contribution: good, worthwhile comments. Some of them are already in a good stage of implementation and some will certainly be looked at from the point of view of how further progress can be made. Here, President, in his briefness and during the debate, more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u7	Thank you. — Then there are these speeches and the debate, and after the debate both ministers can still be heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u8	Mr President, ärade talman! Climate policy is complex and politicised. Part-optimization is no stranger to it. The whole structure is complex: emissions trading, burden sharing, LULUCF. However, emissions are common and partial optimization of one part will not help if the other leaks. Climate action also has economic consequences. We are in an area with economic and regional interests. Finland’s climate policy is strongly based on the bioeconomy, and there are good and strong reasons for this: Finland has a lot of forests and we have a lot of expertise in this field. Biofuels are clearly one of our future energy palettes, but it is also a sector that is very sensitive to changes in legislation. At the same time, we must remember where our real challenges are and in what time they must be met. By 2030 emissions must be nearly halved and this is an ambitious target. In this perspective, the benefits of biofuels and the bioeconomy are already much more questionable, and it is therefore essential that these fuels are directed to the right targets: heavy traffic — places where it is difficult to find alternative sources of energy. Finland has stated that we are seeking to increase the volume of forest felling. At the moment, it's 70 million cubic metres. It's 10 million cubic metres more than it was a decade ago. In the future, the amount will rise to 80 million cubic metres. It means that the carbon sink is shrinking. By 2030 it is expected to halve to grow again. In the long term, it may not be a major problem if growth after 2030 is rapid, but in the short term it is not in line with our climate objectives — and there is an urgent need to combat climate change, and there is a great consensus of experts. In this situation, it is particularly important that these cubes are directed to long-lived wood products, not fuels or paper. About 50% of our emissions are directly or indirectly related to construction. Around 50% of Europe's primary resources are spent on construction. How we build is part of the solution to this challenge. At the same time, 1 kilo of wood binds 1.8 kilos of carbon dioxide, one small house binds 30 tons of carbon dioxide. If we build more wood, if the increase in felling volumes goes into wood construction, our climate challenge is much easier to overcome. This is what we can achieve if we say what should be self-evident: Finnish wood does not burn better in Finland than in Sweden. The two-four Finnish building in Sweden does not burn worse than the board in the Finnish wooden apartment building. We should clearly state this in our building regulations, saying that if the wood is structurally protected, there is no need for sprinting — and vice versa. Some progress has been made, but not enough. We should follow the example of Sweden here. We should also note that staring at the E chapter does not contribute to good and healthy construction. Helsingin Energia's research shows that the correlation between the E-Chapter and energy efficiency is very weak. The same is shown by Professor Juha Vinha's studies at Tampere University of Technology. At the same time, we know that an epidemic of mold building is sweeping our country and that increasing the insulation layer increases the sensitivity to error. This can be fixed. If we move from measuring the E-numbers to measuring the carbon footprint, we measure the right things: the carbon footprint of the material, the longevity of the building and its reusability. At the same time, we would move away from concrete, mineral wool and plastic to good wood, and that would be a climate action and a starting shot for sustainable construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u9	Madam President! The medium-term climate policy plan KAISU is based on the Climate Act and aims to ensure the long-term and objective nature of national climate policy. This plan is a step towards carbon neutrality and also supports the long-term objective of reducing emissions by at least 80% by 2050 from 1990 levels, as defined in the Climate Act. Finland's plan is also guided by the European Union's 2030 emission reduction target. The medium-term climate policy plan addresses the means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions outside emissions trading. These sectors, transport, agriculture, heating and waste management, concern the daily lives of each of us. We can also do much with our own choices. As legislators, we need to find ways to encourage operators, private consumers, businesses, public authorities to change their behaviour in a climate-friendly way. Various economic incentives to guide behaviour should be identified and transitional measures introduced to achieve the objectives. Mr President! In its energy and climate strategy, the Government has set ambitious targets for achieving emission reductions. The Government will also invest in the fight against climate change with the resources specifically earmarked in the draft budget. However, experts have expressed their concerns as to whether we have realistic opportunities to achieve the objectives we have set. We therefore need more ambitious measures to achieve our objectives. Mr President! The most significant emission reduction potential is currently in the transport sector. Transport accounts for about one fifth of Finland’s greenhouse gas emissions. The transition can be accelerated by means of interim solutions. For example, various benefit schemes can be created to support consumers when purchasing or using non-emission or low-emission cars. The solutions now adopted on the purchase aid for electric cars and the conversion of old cars into bio- and flexifuel cars are very welcome. This is a good start for less-emission traffic. In addition, the construction of electric charging stations and biogas refuelling stations is an important tool. In accordance with the programme, a joint programme for the promotion of walking and cycling between the state and urban areas will be implemented between 2018 and 2022. In addition, cities are encouraged to set targets for increasing cycling and walking. These are the right steps towards more environmentally friendly mobility. With regard to the measures already in place, the development of the scrapping premium should be considered so that it can also be used as procurement support for the purchase of passenger car services such as electric bicycles, shared use car services or public transport tickets. Mr President! For agriculture, greenhouse gas emissions come from diffuse sources, which contribute to creating challenges for the mitigation of emissions levels. The choice of means must therefore be diverse in order to reduce emissions from different sources. Appropriate measures will be taken in relation to heating, such as the obligation to mix 10 % bioliquid with light fuel oil used in heating. It is the right thing to do that the government will abandon the oil heating of the premises by 2025. I hope that setting an example will also encourage others in the public sector and why not also in the private sector to do the same. However, further efforts could be considered in this sector too. We could consider, for example, speeding up solutions for small houses in solar energy. Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection raised the issue of economic incentives, in particular the need to reform tax and support schemes. In particular, the Government should examine the reform of tax and incentive systems in order to promote emission reduction targets. Since the plan does not directly oblige private operators or companies, it would be explicitly the task of the State to reform the financial incentives in order to change the behaviour of private operators. Municipalities play an important role and can, for example, direct actors towards more climate-friendly behaviour through land use and construction. This year's draft budget took account of the demands of sustainable development. This approach will be pursued more ambitiously in the preparation of next year's budget. Thank you for this, Mr Orpo, the Minister of Finance, who also flashed a plastic tax last week or a ban on disposable plastic products to reduce the use of plastics. Mr President! The climate plan has rightly paid particular attention to the role of the consumer in achieving the climate objectives. Consumers have a key role to play in reducing emissions, and in this respect information can encourage change in behaviour. The report by the Committee on the Environment therefore proposes that the Government should carry out climate education at all levels of the education system in the right direction and direct climate communication widely to all target groups. I consider this to be the right development, and the new curricula have given greater attention to the themes specifically related to sustainable development and climate issues. Finally, the objective must be a market-neutral situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u10	Madam President! Climate change is a question of the fate of mankind. In order for the earth to survive, we must be able to respond to what was agreed in the Paris Agreement, namely to ensure that global warming remains below 2°C, and a strong, genuine ambition must be 1.5°C. Since there is no time for many years, the medium-term plan is of great importance. Its main task is to ensure that we are genuinely on a path towards 1.5 degrees. The plan will look to 2030, but will it look long enough from then on? We know that the emission reduction targets need to be tightened in order to achieve the necessary targets. There is no certainty that the plan will provide the means to do this. It is difficult to assess the impact of the measures of the plan because they involve a great deal of uncertainty and parameters. It is very difficult to assess the effectiveness of a wide range of actions, some of which are still open to funding. Mr President! Transport has the greatest potential in the burden-sharing sector, but it is this sector that also has the greatest uncertainty. The sector is developing at an enormous rate, and the measures now being chosen should be able to anticipate changes. The government has opted for biofuels that are justified in the very short term, but in the big picture we should already be on the path towards electronic transport, and more incentives should be directed towards this. Estimates of the year in which the manufacture of an electric motor and an internal combustion engine is the same price are coming up. Biofuels can serve as a transitional solution, but the medium-term plan must also look at what will happen after 2030. The Government’s line is to rely very heavily on bioenergy and the growing use of forests. This represents a major risk to the objectives in relation to EU climate regulation. Forests can and must be used, but adequate sinks and biodiversity must be taken care of. The medium-term plan will halve our carbon sink. It doesn't help that the throat starts to grow again in the 2030s, because we're running out of time. Although the seedling binds much carbon relative to its own mass, absolute removal from the atmosphere is smaller. Wood binds the most carbon between 40 and 80 years of age. Therefore, wood should be directed to long-term products of high value added, not fuels. Promoting wood construction is another good way to do this. And staring at the E number may lead us astray. More important is to look at the building through its entire life cycle emissions. The traditional log-hulled house with gravity air conditioning is still able to compare both energy and indoor air. As a whole, municipalities and cities play an important role in combating climate change. Housing and transport make up a large part of emissions, and urban and municipal solutions have a significant impact on national emissions development, including through transport planning, land use, industrial policy and public procurement. Some cities have already set much more ambitious targets than the national level. Helsinki has set itself the goal of being carbon neutral in 2035, Vantaa and Espoo already in 2030. This shows that the level of ambition can and must be raised. Ambitious climate policy must therefore be seen as an opportunity. It creates opportunities for cleantech companies, for example, and the development of innovative emission reduction instruments will also lay the foundations for new export products. We have a lot of potential here, but it requires investment in research and development and the courage to experiment with the fact that, at the same time, we must dismantle the structures that sustain too high the consumption of natural resources and energy. In order to be successful in combating climate change, action is required both at the national level and in municipalities and individual choices. Although responsibility cannot only be passed on to individuals, it is important for all of us to choose. We therefore need a tax reform which looks at taxation from a climate and environmental point of view. We need to get our climate-wise choices automatic. Business subsidies and agricultural subsidies should also be looked at from a climate perspective. Mr President! Combating climate change is a matter of fate. We know that for many years we do not have time to change direction. Unfortunately, this plan is inadequate — in the right direction but without helping it. We must be prepared to tighten up our objectives, and the impact of the measures chosen in this plan must be closely monitored and ready for changes if the means seem inadequate or the weightings seem to be wrong. If we invest correctly, an ambitious climate policy will reduce emissions, but at the same time it can also be for the benefit of the whole of Finland and all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u11	Now we are going to start the debat, and those representatives who want to use a 1 minute reply will be asked to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u12	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen explained recent developments in EU decision-making. It would also be interesting to hear Minister Tiilikainen's view on what the Dutch Prime Minister announced at the beginning of this month and what the French and Swedish ministers have already suggested in the past that the EU should tighten its emissions targets from the 40% reduction in 2030 as the guiding principle for the government's efforts to date in the EU. After all, Sitra, for example, stated that if Finland were to actually reduce emissions in line with keeping global warming below 2°C, it would mean a 60% reduction in emissions for 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u13	Mr President! There are a couple of points that have been raised in these speeches: The second concerns traffic. At the end of August, the Transport Network Task Force submitted its interim report and the measures set out therein are not ambitious enough and will certainly be specified in the future when work on the national transport system plan begins. The second one, which was strongly displayed, is the use of wood. Wood use makes most sense when it is put into a form that binds carbon. Wood construction, wood products, is a potential with a lot of work to do, and I will continue to encourage Minister Tiilikainen to do so, even though there has been a great deal going on over the last twenty years. And as far as fuels are concerned, it is only so that in vehicles, cars, electricity is the driving force of the future. Biofuels are certainly justified during the transition period,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u14	Mr President! Indeed, in this world situation there is a need for leadership in climate policy, a place that certainly belongs to the European Union. Many Member States have identified the need to raise their targets in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. It would be very important to hear what group Finland is in. In any case, we must overcome the emission reductions that have now been presented, i.e. the 60% reduction already in 2030. There really is a need for a wide range of measures here. Bioeconomy, biofuels, as has been said, is the solution for the transitional period. We need a longer-term perspective. Urban policy, transport policy as a whole has a key role to play in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u15	Madam President! As far as transport is concerned, the emission reduction targets are quite concrete. As far as Finland is concerned, this means that transport should be torn down by half the emissions by 2030. The operations have been carried out by the government of the country, i.e. the distribution, charging infrastructure, so that renewable transport fuels have been transported. Electricity and gas are fuels for future transport. I therefore think that we may need more transport and mobility in Finland, for example in the form of jobs, but that we need less emissions, and I therefore hope that the work of the parliamentary working group on transport will continue with a view to how we can make transport more and less emission. There must be heavy traffic and public transport, and that means some biobuses, electric buses,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u16	Mr President! This Government report on the climate policy plan now under discussion contains a lot of good things, but at the same time it can also be seen as challenging in many ways. Perhaps the main cause of concern is that too ambitious national and international emission reduction targets would be to make it difficult for Finnish companies and the forestry sector to operate in our country, for example. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister: what will you, Minister, answer to the Finnish entrepreneurs, industry and forest operators concerned about this issue, how can we in Finland in future ensure that the implementation of the various energy and climate policy objectives does not threaten to create additional costs for the above-mentioned operators which would negatively affect their activities and our national competitiveness?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u17	Madam President! Based on the report, agriculture accounts for about 20% of the emissions from the burden-sharing sector. The Climate Plan sets out further measures with a total greenhouse gas reduction effect of approximately half a million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. How do we get to this? The answer is biogas, which is renewable, emission-free domestic energy. The aim of promoting biogas production is to achieve emission reductions in the burden-sharing sector of around 0.31 million tonnes in 2030. I would argue that the potential of correctly targeted measures is considerably greater. In order to promote the use of biogas, a cost-effective action is to support the conversion of passenger cars into gas. It also makes it possible to convert an older car into biogas. One of the key projects in the Government Programme is Bioeconomy and clean solutions —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u18	Madam President! The emission reduction targets, the Climate Act and the Climate Agreement also guide Finnish decision-making. Climate change is just one thing. There are many other things involved: population growth, soil degradation and political instability, collapsed states and conflicts. This is one big picture. In the debate I said in a group speech that if immigration policy is of interest, it is also worth taking an interest in climate policy, and this is good to bear in mind. I would like to ask the Minister about something that came out of this committee's consultation about housing companies and their small-scale production of electricity, that is, when the housing company goes into small-scale production, there will be a very rapid run-in with the VAT law, and then bureaucracy and, of course, costs, and costs may cause that project to fall simply because of it. Is there anything we can do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u19	Madam President! When considering long-term climate objectives, there are a large number of mobile parts on the table: housing policy, urban structure, transport sector, public transport, people’s housing habits, food waste, public procurement, agriculture — the list could be continued no matter how. I personally feel that cities and municipalities have a major role to play in achieving climate goals. A long-term municipal decision-maker, hopefully also as many of us as possible, is working for a community structure that supports low-emission mobility, such as public transport, walking, cycling. As far as transport's climate objectives are concerned, I feel that they are quite large and that it is not possible to manage them simply with the scrapping premium or with the increase in the number of electric cars. In order to achieve these transport objectives, we will need much more investment in public transport and in a better physical transport network. In addition, rail transport does not stand up to a declining trend, but requires:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u20	Mr President! True Finns see that energy and climate policy must support employment and economic growth and not just hinder them. A coherent, affordable and domestic energy policy supports employment, economic growth, competitiveness and purchasing power and promotes social justice. Minister Tiilikainen, the Government Programme states that the international competitiveness of industry and the fight against carbon leakage are key elements of climate policy. The development of the Energy Union must aim at ensuring affordable and sustainable energy supply to industry and consumers. Has this been observed when signing contracts?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u21	Madam President! Traffic has been raised in several speeches here, and indeed, as Mr Tiilikainen said, transport belongs to the 39% section of the burden-sharing agreement outside emissions trading. If we really want to reduce emissions from transport, then in some way we must take a quick stance on this ever-increasing problem. We are now starting to have Europe, mainly from Germany, old diesel cars, and their average age is nine years. Last year there were 33,000 vans and passenger cars, and a representative Taimela is quite right that, although we support electric cars to some extent and a little more, gas cars and so on, it is not mathematically relevant to this problem, which now comes from abroad, in other words, in practice, Finland is a graveyard for old cars. It is not the fault of the people who bring it, but it is the fault of this house. We should make a decision as soon as possible that the car tax should be abolished in five years so that we can:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u22	Mr President! This committee's report speaks well of education, climate education and the growth potential of export companies, among other things. For example, the city of Vaasa has developed an energy education strategy together with business, where early education aims to create interest in energy issues, climate issues, but also international trade, and it always goes through the whole educational path to enable law students to focus on energy law. When public R & D money is distributed and channelled, it would also be good to see, even with the eyes of the government, where these companies themselves invest in research and development on a market-based basis. It is also a place where the state should be involved. Such concentrations such as Mini Silicon Valley or Cern can also be built in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u25	Madam President! Finland is committed to international climate policy and its objectives, and thanks to the Government, there are many concrete measures. In practice, the transport sector accounts for more than half of the proposed emission reduction target for Finland as a whole, and that will be a major challenge for us in the future. There is a great deal of hope that electric cars will be the solution, but biofuels will be needed at this stage of the transition before we actually get to electric cars. In order to achieve these international goals in Finland too, a large contribution from municipalities and business life is needed. Our transport policy, housing policy, urban planning and attitudes, in practice people's attitudes and education, are absolutely key. In the future, too, I hope for more investment from the business community. Climate policy, climate objectives can also be opportunities for Finland and, Ministers, would be happy to hear the opportunities you see for our business life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u26	Mr President! The representative, Torniainen, rightly spoke of attitudes. Because the problem is often that climate objectives are easily subjected to other, even opposite, goals. One example is the way in which farmers are compensated for last autumn's crop damage. Everyone agrees on the need for compensation of EUR 25 million. Unfortunately, the government decided to increase the rate of excise duty on light fuel oil on farms. Support for the use of oil clearly contradicts Finland's climate and environmental objectives, and when the sum was doubled, the direction, message and incentive are completely wrong. It is clear that drying grain has taken much more energy last year than before, but the government's proposal does not take into account the fact that already one fifth of the dryers use wood chips as fuel. These pioneers of bioenergy and eco-friendlyness do not receive the support given to those who use oil, and while it is still only one part of the use of wood and wood chipping power throughout the farm, part of the sustainable development that the farm has wanted to commit itself to, is this your ministry, Minister Tiilikainen?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u27	There are some members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection who have not yet received the floor, and I have prioritised them. Next up is Mrs Maijala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u28	Mr President! These climate issues need to be taken very seriously. This report by the Government and the report by us in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has raised a great deal of good things and is trying to do and do these things. In fact, I would like to raise a few points, firstly that in Finland we have a wooden backbone, our forests. In 50 years, the growth of forests in Finland has doubled. We have done tremendous climate work, and we should also have the right to take advantage of this work in some way, which we have done. Now thank you to Minister Tiilikainen for these LULUCF negotiations, for the result you have achieved with it. Secondly, the high level of expertise in climate matters in Finland is also an opportunity. We have a lot of work to do, research in the energy sector, and there is education, research, product development. So now I ask the Minister: is there more money and resources available to carry out these investigations?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u29	Mr President! Finland's reduction target in the burden-sharing sector is quite high, and we must use every means to achieve these emission targets. It has been rightly said here that transport emissions are one-fifth and the solution is, for example, a strong increase in electric cars and then the share of biofuels. But I would like to point out to all of us that, for example, one flight back and forth from Thailand brings as much emissions as one year of driving per person, that we are now making those domestic travels. Finally, the Government Programme includes the objective of increasing the recycling rate of municipal waste to 50%, which is indeed good, i.e. by increasing recycling towards the circular economy, reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is also worth mentioning that we have a huge food waste, or some 400 million pounds of good food every year. There is a need for education in homes and schools and everywhere for this to be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u30	Madam President! Thank you for the floor. Although the Christian Democrats do not have a place in the Committee on the Environment, that does not mean that we are not interested in climate and environmental policy. This committee's report has very well raised the issue of transport, housing, waste transport and waste incineration, but I think that the agricultural section is a little short-handed. In other words, this agricultural section talks about carbon dioxide emissions from agricultural land and then, later, about carbon sequestration into soil. However, agriculture should be considered from the point of view that it is a question of food security worldwide, and the threats posed by climate change to arable land and the declining arable area should be raised more strongly in this report by the Committee on the Environment. I would have asked the Minister how the ministry thinks about this whole: is it only in agriculture that these things are seen, as if they were still to be improved, or is it really understood that, globally, we may one day be very much responsible for the world's food production?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u31	Madam President! The objectives are strict and policy measures must be in line with them when it comes to combating climate change. It is high time that we started to stop the use of fossil fuels and also by starting the process of dismantling fossil fuel subsidies, that is, clearly environmentally and climate-friendly subsidies. I would like to ask the ministers about the business support group set up by the government. After all, this group was mandated to draw up a road map for the reform in line with the objectives of the energy and climate strategy. I wonder if we are now going to have the desired reform to make our climate action more effective. And how do you feel about reducing emissions from air transport and taking them for more specific reasons, perhaps according to the Swedish model? If our goals for carbon neutrality are true and ambitious, they will also require the dismantling of fossil fuels in aviation according to Sitra and according to the National Climate Panel for the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u32	Madam President! The Government will take a wide range of measures to mitigate climate change. Although the government is being accused of being unambitious, I do not think that these listings of what is being done are proof of this: greenhouse emissions are clearly decreasing, for example, by changing the content of transport fuels and the fleet of cars. The use of hard coal will be discontinued by 2030. The use of imported oil will be halved and shifted in traffic, as has been said several times here, strongly towards electric cars. Domestic biogas and renewable biofuels will be favoured and the share of renewable transport fuels in the tank will be increased. In addition, domestic investments in biorefinery will be supported in order to ensure that Finland is increasingly mobile with domestic fuel. And I would also like to see the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development constantly taken into account here, this global perspective when climate change is curbed. That is just as serious as has been said many times in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u33	Mr President! Climate change is probably one of the biggest challenges we have to face all over the world. That's where I'm thinking about a few things. Mr Immonen raised the issue of competitiveness and many other issues. This is a global issue, and the European Union is doing its part with the Paris climate agreement, but I still have the feeling that those who have done badly will continue to do badly and those who have done well will be given even more burden. After all, Finland's emission reduction target is the second largest. I ask whether this is fairly divided. Another problem we very little talk about is also the one I spoke to Sitra’s Executive Director about when I met him: With a global population growth of 83 million people a year and by 2030 the population has grown by 1 billion, it somehow seems that with these programmes we in Europe and Finland are changing and reversing it. Do you have any thoughts on this, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u34	Mr President! There are no easy measures, but if action is taken in time, it is easier and cheaper than adapting to intense warming. And the emissions of Finns are large on a global scale, so our responsibility for emission reductions is also large. Our technological level and adaptability and the ability to make emission reductions are also good from the point of view of technological development and societal development. We can be leaders in Europe in reducing emissions. But, Mr President, Professor Ollikainen of the Climate Panel has said that passenger car traffic should be completely electric in 2040, so that after 2030 no more internal combustion cars should be sold. The challenge is very great. Biofuels should be reserved for heavy traffic, where electrification is more difficult. Air transport is also forced to change. I would like to ask the Minister: could we, together with Finnair, start developing a lower-emission air transport system, for example through biofuels?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u35	Mr President! It is very important that these climate measures are implemented and that Finland is credible in their implementation, and here many good things have already been raised, such as the construction of wood — many of these that can be done much more today. But I would have missed a little of such a national influence programme on this international side. The role of the EU as a leader in this climate policy becomes increasingly important when the United States is in a state where its own climate policy is, and when Finland takes over the presidency of the EU, I would have curiously asked whether there are any ideas on how to take climate policy forward, particularly then? And secondly, our role in those development funding institutions: when we talk about the World Bank, regional development banks, the European Development Bank and so on, there is a great deal of decision-making either on climate-friendly projects or on projects that increase emissions. In what way is this international influence linked to our own programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u36	Let us take four more replies, and then the ministers will reply, and these four are representatives of Reijonen, Suutari, Huhtasaari and Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u37	Madam President! There have been concerns about how carbon sinks will turn out if the fellings grow by 10 million cubic metres a year. In my opinion, this concern is unfounded. The carbon sink will not be reduced if the forests are properly renovated and managed, as it should be done. The other big thing is that we really need to speed up the construction of wood. It has made very good progress. It binds the carbon. For example, a 14-storey wooden apartment building in Joensuu uses 4,000 cubic metres of wood, the whole 14 floors. It is about 15 hectares of hole — very little. In other words, it is extremely important for us to be able to move forward with regard to this wood construction, as was previously stated here with regard to fire regulations, but also with regard to other standards. Today, wood construction is about 10 percent more expensive, and planning costs more than concrete constructions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u38	Mr President! We really need action, climate action, and I would suggest that, when we have Minister Bernerk here, the track — to Kokemäki it is already coming — through Forssa to Helsinki, such a direct train connection would be very important. Here's what happened: the EU adopted the emission target in the Paris climate agreement and nabbed it to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u39	One last reply to that, and then two ministerial speeches, followed by a short debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u40	Mr President! Thank you, colleagues, for many very good speeches. However, I would like to point out that when we compare Finland as the cause of climate change in the EU as a whole, we must remember that although we have many things well and many things better than in many other countries, our emissions per capita are still the lowest in the larger half of the EU countries, rather than in the cleaner half. However, I have actually asked for a reply to comment on transport issues, which have been dealt with very well by a number of colleagues. It would be very interesting to hear more about how the government sees the role of a new type of transport mindset in controlling climate change as a traffic service, the development of a new type of light transport, and what steering measures the government is planning for municipalities, for example, in order to improve the share of public transport and improve cycling conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u41	Now we have two ministerial speeches to make. The brick first for up to three minutes, as well as Berner. Here you go. Then we will have a short debate, but then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u42	Mr President! Thank you for the many comments. They are impossible within the available time, one by one, and so there are a few topics that have been repeated here. Firstly, Finland's role in international climate policy: I would say that it has never been as strong as it is at present. Our impact on the EU's 2030 climate decisions in all sectors, whether in emissions trading, outside of it or here in LULUCF, and then on the sustainability criteria for renewable energy – our handprint will be visible there. We were strongly moving forward with the Paris climate agreement and its long-term objectives, and since then we have been setting up this off-coal coalition. My colleague, Mr Berner, and I have written several times in the direction of the EU Commission on emission reduction measures in transport. We want them to be tightened up at EU level. But, President-in-Office, a few concerns arose here: Mr Immonen asked quite well how it was for entrepreneurs and industry. Now that solution for EU emissions trading, which controls electricity production, district heat production and industry, is fully in line with our objectives. I have sometimes asked industry representatives how it could be better steered towards lower emissions and better reward for good work. Actually, there's no answer. It adequately protects the industry of good technology. And when Mr Huhtasaari referred to the fact that coal will then produce more energy in different countries, Mr Huhtasaari, Poland, Bulgaria and Finland's energy production emissions will be controlled with exactly the same tool called EU emissions trading. As far as these opportunities are concerned, as many Members raised, it is true that we have opportunities in this area: the construction of wood here in the country of origin, why not also in terms of exports. But in fact, the Paris Agreement provides for decades the prospect that companies will have long-term demand and the incentive to develop various renewable energy technologies, energy efficiency-enhancing solutions, in all industrial processes, for example, solutions to reduce emissions, and then the government can also use its own research and development efforts to support them. With regard to transport emissions — which I am sure Mr Berner will answer in more detail — I will simply say that by far the fastest and most important is the obligation to mix with renewable fuels. In the long term, yes, electricity will come, biogas will increase, but then, as many Members have said here, we will still have the need for biofuels in air transport or heavy traffic. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we have a very strong and shared vision of taking Finland in the forefront of climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u43	Minister Berner, three minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u44	Madam President! As far as transport is concerned, we are talking in practice about three sets: We are talking about the energy efficiency of the transport system, which we ourselves consider to be very central in the ministry. This package involves the development of transport services, the promotion of public transport services, the export of the walking and cycling programme, and this is what we are becoming a Government resolution of principle in March. Sitra has also stated that digitalisation and its benefits will be the key means of long-term action to reduce emissions from transport. Another major entity is the energy efficiency of vehicles. Here, the most important challenge for us in Finland is the renewal of the car fleet and the genuine electrification of traffic. However, perhaps the key issue here is that the car industry is getting the price of electric vehicles down. The scrap premium is this kind of short-term quick action. It has produced 2367 new vehicles now on this side of the year. Renewable fuels are the third entity that is, first and foremost, making rapid action possible right now. But it is quite clear that we need to work together on how to reduce emissions from transport in the period after 2030 until 2050 and what will then be our key actions and how we will ensure that transport is completely zero emissions by 2050 at the latest. Cities play a key role in this, and cities must therefore play a more ambitious role in reducing emissions from transport. As Mr Uotila pointed out, the parliamentary working group on the financing of the transport network concluded that the current measures are not sufficient. There is a need for a wide range of instruments that will also be able to look at tax changes, regulation and other ways of generating more action. There is also a need for more money, but above all, we should also have the courage to consider the issue of transport taxation, which should be developed more on the basis of emissions, and we should be able to get rid of the tax on ownership from the use to pay. This would also affect the fact that we will not have another fleet of cars in Finland, which is already old. With regard to air transport and maritime transport, it is clear that we must play an active role in international fora. Both are very international modes of transport. A carbon-neutral increase in air transport has been agreed in ICAO since 2020 and the possibilities of covering the cost of biofuels through voluntary measures have been explored in Finland. There is certainly a need for further measures in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u45	Let's take a short debatt and 5 debatts: Myllykoski, Hoskonen, Vartia, Tanus and Elomaa. Mr Myllykoski, please, let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u46	Madam President! In my debate, I will not take up wood construction, because Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Modig gave such excellent speeches. But, Mr President, the emissions targets in transport are a challenge, and I ask: would there be a chance for new innovations in commuting? For example, we are now replacing the use of our own car through taxation on business trips. Would it be possible for us to move on to replacing those who give them up, for example, who move on to carpools, that is to say, to support the abandonment of their own car? Why on earth would we support consumption when we could support consumption?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u47	Madam President! It is excellent that we pay such strong attention to climate policy. However, it is quite worrying in this debate that we are starting to tell things about forests that are not true. Mr Adlercreutz mentioned in his own speech that we have fewer carbon sinks. How could this be possible when, according to accurate inventory results, the growth of forests in the kingdom has already exceeded 110 million mots and growth is not accelerating? When we get thinning fellings done, as is the case now with fibrewood on the market, it will increase the growth of forests. 113 million are currently growing in line with the current audit inventory. We're gonna beat 70 million mots. It has an annual limit of about 40 million mots. So when the growth is greater than the use, it is clear that the carbon sink grows every year. And another thing: carbon storage is growing. During our independence, both growth and carbon storage have doubled, both of them. So this is the kind of talk we're going to discredit our own chances, and I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u48	Let us take this list, which I have just listed, but Mr Adlercreutz wants an answer to this. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u49	Mr President! Of course, these concepts are a little complicated, but the carbon sink is the growth rate of the carbon stock. So that means that even though the stock is growing, the carbon sink may decrease, and this is an undeniable fact. What we are doing with our policies is in the short term we halve our carbon sinks, and Mr Tiilikainen will be able to verify that. So in the short term, we have problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u52	Madam President! When we emit climate emissions, we will be facing climate change, which will cause costs. In other words, we have a system that can cause damage that causes costs to others. It's a market failure. The market economy should not work in such a way as to be able to do something where others pay if it generates costs. It does not fit my values that this is considered to be fair. Well, it is difficult to correct, but one suggestion: If allowances are removed from the emissions trading scheme, emissions will actually be reduced. Could the State provide a service through which the full market price, the cost of its own capital, could buy emission allowances out and thereby compensate for the damage caused by it itself or, if it does not go to emissions trading, other services such as growing a forest that binds the amount of coal that the various parties have caused — in the case of consumers —
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u53	Madam President! In my opinion, the car scrapping premium should also be considered as aid for the purchase of electric bicycles, public transport tickets and shared car services. Efforts to promote the use of e-transport and biogas could be even stronger. There is much more potential for increasing biogas production than mentioned in the report. For example, the construction of stations with investment subsidies could make a significant contribution to the use of gas cars. I would have asked the ministers: have there been any changes in these areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u54	Mr President! Climate policy plans in the EU have an emission reduction target of at least 39% compared to the level of 90. The climate policy sector is important for our country and for the whole of the globe; it is absolutely undeniable. Conservation of biodiversity and climate policy objectives must not be cumulated only in some countries. The burden sharing must be balanced. In their protest, the Finns of Finland draw attention to the preservation of industrial jobs and the possibility for Finnish companies to compete equally on the world market. Forestry and agriculture are already in difficulties, and I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen: how will we proceed? Private motoring is certainly a reality in the future too — we are a country of long-distance journeys. But the message I would like the ministers to take forward is: why go to Strasbourg to keep
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u55	Member of the Environment Committee, one more, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u56	Madam President! In many speeches, such as those of Elomaa and Laura Huhtasaari, a philosophical question has been raised that whether Finland should be at the top or whether Finland should not be at the top. This is a good question, and this is a little contradictory information for researchers too, when, on the other hand, it is said that stricter environmental management can increase companies' profits, but there are of course companies from which it may take the whole business away. Then we have areas in Finland, such as the representative Strand is from the Vaasa region, where I think there are about 13,000 people in the energy cluster. So the question to Minister Tiilikainen: how do you see whether Finland should be at the forefront of development, exports, the future, or is it better to go into hedgehog defence and slow down all development and see that others take care of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u57	Let us now go to the list of speakers, and I will give Mr Tiilikainen the floor at the end of the debate, when this ends at this point at 15.30, then we will continue later. But at this point Mr Halmemenpää will continue on the list of speakers, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u58	Madam President! The ultimate objective of climate policy is to achieve zero global warming emissions. The medium to no time scale objective of climate policy is not to compromise so that polluting activities can continue for as long as possible. The goal is to stop the warming of the atmosphere, and there is a hurry. In order to keep the world countries in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change after 2020 and to limit the increase in global average temperature to a maximum of 1.5°C relative to pre-industrial time, nothing is sufficient. As Minister Tiilikainen has credited, the fight for global warming is won or lost in municipalities and cities. Construction, consumption, mobility and everyday solutions play an important role in climate action. The role of the state is to guide and also oblige society as a whole, the public sector as a whole and the economy to take effective climate action. We need to adapt to the new normal, find the best ways to organise society in those channels that enable us to combat climate change and, at the same time, sustainable and profitable economic activity. The carbon neutrality we are aiming for means both a rapid reduction in emissions and the maintenance and strengthening of carbon sinks, not a reduction. Mr President! The Government, Minister Tiilika and Minister Berner should be commended for all the efforts made to reduce emissions. A lot of good has been done. However, our views differ somewhat from the seriousness of the climate change battle, or at least from the timetable and effectiveness of the action. The medium-term climate plan for Finland's emission reductions will implement the current targets, let me say, with a touch of the bar, but we already know that the bar still needs to be raised. The pressure to tighten up the targets has emerged from both experts and the European Union. Finland has committed itself to reducing its emissions by 80-95% by 2050, but according to Sitra, the current climate targets of Finland and the EU are not sufficient to meet the objectives of the Paris climate agreement and to halt warming to 1.5 degrees. According to Sitra's calculations, Finland should reduce its emissions by up to 130 to 150 per cent by 2050. This would also require afforestation, carbon sequestration in agriculture, carbon capture and storage. In its indicative assessment, our national climate panel of top scientists in key fields of climate policy has also set out strict guidelines for Finland's climate policy in relation to the target level. Mr President! If and when Finland is serious about being carbon neutral, we must succeed in tightening our policy efforts to meet this strict objective, within the right timeframe. The goal is to stop global warming at levels consistent with the safety limit, and this is a necessary condition for Finland as a whole, for the whole world, for us and for our children. This requires a fast tightening tight nuttura line, we cannot afford to loosen up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u59	Mr President! As has already been said, there are good measures in the medium-term climate plan. Unfortunately, however, these measures are not enough and emissions targets are likely to be further tightened. Although climate change can be curbed and worst-case scenarios avoided, the climate will warm up and it is already warming. Climate change must therefore also be prepared and adapted. Cities must make contingency and adaptation plans, and a national contingency plan is also needed. We must also support developing countries in adapting to climate change, because climate change affects the poorest of all and, in the worst case scenario, can lead to great refugees when the regions become unviable and when people lose their livelihoods. Mr President! In KAISU, housing, transport and food are essential. They represent a large part of our emissions and have a lot to do. Professor of the Climate Panel Mr Ollikainen has said that passenger car traffic should be fully electronic as early as 2040. There are 22 years left — let us compare it to the MM-95 with 23 years back. The change must therefore be rapid, but the change is not impossible — not even 95 smartphones, and now they are in everyone's pockets. We therefore need more ambitious targets and incentives for rapid electrification of transport. The electronic transformation of transport also provides a good opportunity to develop intelligent transport that makes transport more efficient, safer and, at the same time, more environmentally friendly. Heavy and useful transport must also change. At least in the near future, electricity will not be a viable option there, so the focus will be on gas, hydrogen and biofuels in particular. Tax steering, incentives and development projects should be considered to develop these. There is also a need for change in air transport. It cannot be just a consumer's responsibility to make wise choices, but a standard and tax steering is needed to break emissions from air transport. Since air transport is global, action should be welcomed. But if global action is not progressing, regional decisions must be taken. Greening transport energy sources alone is not enough; minimising transport needs and promoting public and light transport is needed. Here comes town planning and local transport policy. Light traffic and public transport must be placed at the top of transport policy, and urban planning should aim to enable urban and urban areas to live and operate without cars. The question is therefore linked to planning and the placement of services. Mr President! In principle, new buildings will be built with energy efficiency, but construction will generate a lot of emissions, for example, the manufacture of concrete is a big source of emissions. It is therefore not only the energy consumption of dwellings that can be seen, but also the emissions of construction from the whole life cycle. A joint plan should therefore be drawn up with the construction industry to minimise the emissions from construction, and wood construction is one possibility here. However, most Finns do not live in new buildings but in old ones. We therefore need to make the old housing stock more emission-friendly. For example, efforts must be made to abandon oil heating and it needs incentives and support. The installation of air and ground heat pumps must be accelerated. The energy efficiency of old blocks of flats can be greatly improved by, for example, window renovations and heat recovery of exhaust air. However, incentives are needed. For example, the use of household allowance for energy renovations by housing companies could be allowed. I've made a bill on this. Mr President! There is also much to fix in our eating habits. Finns eat twice as much meat as in the '60s. The average Finnish eats 80 kilos of meat a year, while in the 1960s it was still 40 kilos. Meat consumption, especially red meat, must be reduced, as meat production is a major source of emissions. A reasonable consumption of meat would also be in the interest of public health. We must therefore encourage people to make climate-friendly, healthy choices, but we cannot give consumers full responsibility. Agricultural aid should be targeted at climate-friendly food, labelling of climate impacts should be developed, and emissions-based taxation should be considered in the future. Mr President! In fact, in the long term, we must pursue carbon negativity. In other words, in addition to reducing emissions, sinks and carbon stocks must also be brought up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u60	Madam President! As I pointed out earlier in this debate, this Government report on the medium-term climate policy plan for 2030 contains a lot of good things and a lot of things that are easy to sign. But at the same time, it can also be seen in many ways as challenging and to some extent even problematic. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the central objective of the climate policy pursued must be to ensure that too ambitious national and international emission reduction targets do not make it difficult for Finnish companies or, for example, the forestry sector to operate in our country. In future, there will probably be tightening up at EU and international level in the form of emission limits. On the other hand, we do not want to unduly complicate the operating conditions and the operating environment of Finnish companies. Mr President! The Finns Party wants to ensure the international competitiveness of Finnish industry and companies also in the coming years. The implementation of the various energy and climate policy objectives threatens inevitably to create additional costs which have a negative impact on our national competitiveness. If we do not manufacture products for the international market in Finland, they will be made elsewhere, which will have a significant impact on jobs, security of supply and self-sufficiency in our country. As a result, not only are we losing the economic benefits, but the responsibility for the environment rests very much with those countries that are already doing worse than we are doing at present on environmental and climate issues. It might be said that Finnish work is a real eco-act. We must not think that out of sight, out of mind. Finnish work should be defended, and it can be defended with a good conscience. The Finns Party wishes to emphasise that energy and climate policy instruments are not merely legislative and therefore must not make climate policy planning more confusing. It is also particularly important to ensure that when different climate policy changes are made, we do not jeopardise Finland's sufficient self-sufficiency and security of supply. Finland’s geographical location is challenging and must also be taken into account in political decision-making. Therefore, in the opinion of the Finns Party, Finland should not set too ambitious climate policy objectives, although we do, of course, consider the climate policy sector to be important. Mr President! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has therefore tabled an objection to these points of view in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and we therefore propose that the following statements be adopted on the basis of this report. ‘The Council of State shall require: 1. review the measures and objectives of climate and energy policies in a way that takes maximum account of both international and domestic flexibilities without unnecessary regulation; and 2. invests in the industrial jobs of our country and in the security of supply and self-sufficiency of our country, taking into account the long-term and predictability of the business and investment environment.”
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u61	I shall now take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u62	We are now dealing with the first medium-term climate policy plan. The plan is part of the planning system defined by the Finnish Climate Act, which ensures consistency and long-term sustainability of climate policy. The aim of this plan is to present the emission reduction measures that Finland should use to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the non-ETS sector. It therefore makes sense, for example, to give companies a picture of where emission reduction measures are likely to be directed and thus to outline how they will affect business in the longer term. It also makes sense, in economic terms, to understand the range of emission reduction targets and the optimal choice of means to achieve them. The emissions target for the burden-sharing sector is challenging. The emission reduction target is particularly challenging in the transport sector. A higher emission reduction burden has been imposed on it in KAISU. A reduction of more than 50 per cent has now been planned for transport by 2030 on the joint emission reduction obligation of the whole of Finland's burden-sharing sectors. One of the most important means of reducing emissions to achieve the 2030 targets in the transport sector is the inclusion of increased blending obligations for biofuels. This will mainly apply to diesel fuel. In future, it is important to take into account the fact that transport costs would not increase unduly as a result of reductions in emissions in order to maintain the competitiveness of transport. The transport sector faces major challenges, and although the medium-term climate plan does not cover the emissions trading sector, the cost of climate policy for the export companies involved in emissions trading, for example in the form of logistics costs. According to the national energy and climate strategy, the biggest cost impact for companies would be through additional transport and logistics costs. The cost of diesel users would increase by EUR 210 million per year by 2030. We Finns require that solutions are already being sought in Finland to ensure a stable and competitive operating environment for industry. The competence of the different business sectors and the agricultural sector involved in international competition should not be undermined by national and international emission reduction targets. The objectives set by the EU Energy Union for Finland are very challenging, so the implementation of the domestic directives must ensure that national margins are used as optimally as possible, with a view to assessing and minimising the competitive impact of companies. Mr President! I support Mr Immonen's motion to protest against the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u63	And Minister Tiilikainen, at most two minutes from that place. — How, Minister Berner? No need to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u64	Mr President! A few comments on the debate: With this climate plan, the Government introduced for the first time the objective of carbon neutrality in Finland in 2045. That objective of carbon neutrality stems from the long-term objective of the Paris Agreement, which aims to achieve a global balance between emissions and sinks in the second half of this century. Finland is moving at the same pace as Sweden in this front line. It requires us to drive emissions down sufficiently quickly, and it requires us to take good care of the growth of forests and the development of the forest area, so that the carbon sink remains far into the future and, in fact, as far as anything can be planned here at all. A few people were concerned about population growth, and it is quite true that it is of course relevant to global emissions. Of course, one of the most effective experiences of slowing down population growth is the training of girls and the investment in health care, which usually results in a slowdown in population growth. This is also linked to food security, which was raised by Mr Essayah, among other things, and it must be said that in the Paris Agreement food security, the right to food, is quite firmly documented. Finally, to this reflection, whether it is useful to be on the front line or whether we should be talking about others: Finland should be promoting the most ambitious policy at international level, in which all countries participate. Of course we do our part, and we can encourage others by our own example and actions. And at the same time, if that example leads us to have practical solutions that our companies are able to sell abroad, then it also serves Finland's economy and employment, and that Finnish work is an ecological act.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u65	The debate is now suspended and the debate will continue in this plenary session once the other points of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u66	Let us now proceed with the earlier suspension of the order of business 5. consideration of the point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u67	Mr President! There was already a debate here on how the objectives of this medium-term plan are to implement the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. It was also stated, and I said myself, that we must be prepared to increase these emission reduction targets even with a rapid timetable, because otherwise we will not achieve that goal that global temperature will not rise above 1.5 degrees Celsius in the long term. We need global action, but someone has to lead. The European Union must take the lead in this, and Finland must be an active member of the European Union. We benefit from taking climate action seriously and trying to achieve the best possible result. We're a trained people. Hopefully, we will also be investing in knowledge in the future, and we will benefit from the necessary investment that must be made in climate-friendly technologies and services. We therefore need a completely new approach to production, consumption and mobility. These goals are very hard. It was agreed in Paris that developed industrialised countries would reduce CO2 emissions by 40% by 2030 and by 80-95% by 2050, but it is already known that these will not be enough. By 2050 we need negative emissions, so we need more carbon sinks. In Finland, the bioeconomy and biofuels are a key tool for achieving the objectives. In transport, however, biofuels must be seen as a transitional solution. Indeed, the increase in the production of biofuels will weaken these very carbon sinks, as well as biodiversity. In the longer term, our valuable natural resource forests should be used more sustainably for long-term products and wood construction. The transition to more sustainable solutions for transport also needs to start now. Cities have come up very well in this debate, and this is good. Cities and municipalities make important decisions that have an impact on global warming. It was stated here that in Finland, for example here in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, cities already have higher emission targets than Finland. It is good that this is the case. Where there is potential, emission reductions must also be greater. Greater attention must therefore be paid to transport planning as part of the urban structure. Public transport, cycling and walking must play a central role, as must transport services based on digitality. In Finland, EUR 45 billion is spent on public procurement, which represents 16 per cent of GDP. Reasonable use of this sum to increase investment in innovation is essential. In the transport sector, too, rail transport needs to be strongly developed, and this will not happen without new financial investments. We need to get to Finland across the whole country, functioning, fast rail connections into a trunk network and be based on them, connecting between cities and intra-urban traffic. We already have the beginnings of this idea being implemented, but we still need to strengthen internal traffic, for example. For example, if sensible corrections are made to the eastern track, my home city of Joensuu will be reached in three hours in the future, which is more than an hour short of the current situation, and this will bring a real competitive advantage to rail transport. This is one example of the fact that rational investment in rail transport brings real environmental benefits and also regional policy benefits. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u68	Mr President! In fact, this Government report is a credit to Finland, although now many people have probably tried to translate it into some kind of punishment or a great obligation. We have managed our own affairs reasonably well in this country, and the increase in renewable energy growth in this country is admirable because our forest resources are truly valuable. Their use has not yet been fully exploited. Firstly, of course, Finland is committed to the European Union's climate policy, which is now clear. Emissions reductions will certainly be achieved to the extent required by the European Union by 2030, that is to say, no one will blame us on that side. More like an example of us. Then we will have the opportunity to overcome these needs if we want to, but it must be done in such a way that we use our natural resources sensibly and develop better technology. And the third point, which is the most important of all of these criteria, is that once again we are not shooting at our own feet with these absurd restrictions on the use of forests and the use of natural raw materials in this country on many occasions. The list of examples of the mistakes we have made in this area is tragically long. Let us take a look at this at the moment: for example, a number of representatives in the context of this issue suggested that the carbon sink should be reduced. Well, that's an inconceivable thing to say. The growth of Finland's forests during our independence has roughly doubled, as seen by a rough meter, to a large extent, and the carbon stock has also increased. According to the 12th National Forest Inventory, the official growth of Finnish forests is currently 110 million mots per year. The 13th National Forest Inventory is under way, and preliminary data indicate that forest growth currently stands at some 113 million Mts per year. The cuttings are currently about 70 million mots, just over. That leaves us with about 40 million mots each year in the forests more stock of wood than we use it. Who says the carbon sink is shrinking? After all, it's inconceivable talk when not even math is enough. Yes, someone must have an ego pretty high when they don't even believe numbers. Mr Adlercreutz, for example, tried to prove that the carbon sink was shrinking. That's not true. Why do they insist on saying the same thing? I would argue that the aim is to make Finland's forests a museum, not to use them, and then there is a great sense of triumph that we are doing a huge environmental act when we protect a forest. It's not like that. The use of forests in Finland has been growing in the better direction, and now that we have gained more momentum in the bioeconomy, it will only start. The second is that the big celebratory has moved on, Äänekoski last. But there will then be an increase in the production of biofuels from different wood raw materials in this country. All these bring more work to Finland and, above all, create new jobs and reduce the much-speaked state debt when people are no longer on the unemployment card, but quite a few of them are already working. And today's Pellervo Economic Research Centre reports that economic growth will not accelerate and the economy will gradually recover.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u71	Mr President! The medium-term plan defines the actions needed to achieve climate policy objectives in the various administrative sectors. The climate plan contains good guidelines but leaves some of the funding for additional measures open, for example. Climate policy and the overall assessment of emissions reductions are sometimes difficult because emissions are considered separately in the emissions trading sector, the burden-sharing sector and yet separately in the land use sector. Understanding the overall picture is also hampered by the incompatibility of the proposed measures. To achieve the Paris targets, Finland and other developed countries may require up to 60% reductions in emissions by 2030 and between 130 and 150 % reductions by 2050. The goal is challenging. At the same time, however, ambitious climate policy can also be an opportunity, it creates a basis for cleantech growth and creates new export opportunities. The objectives of the report are good and worthwhile. However, we would like to see more concrete monitoring, such as how many electric cars have been sold and how many biogas plants have been set up. This will allow us to better assess whether new measures or additional appropriations are needed to achieve the objectives. The most important greenhouse gas emissions from waste management are methane produced by landfills. Our parliamentary group visited Oulu Waste Management Ltd, where biogas recovery has been developed and a transport biogas station has been established last year. In order to achieve this, the Waste Act must ensure that municipal waste management remains competitive and can remain at least 10 % in market-based waste. Energy advice and energy efficiency grants have proved effective in promoting energy renovations. That is why it is strange that these very grants have been reduced. In the burden-sharing sector, local residents, communities and businesses are involved, which is why incentives must also be diverse. The tightening of energy efficiency requirements and the construction of the infrastructure required for electronic passenger car transport will require significant investments in housing companies in the near future. In the opinion of the Christian Democrats, car scrapping premiums should also be considered as aid for the purchase of public transport tickets, shared use car services and electric bicycles. Efforts to promote the use of e-transport and biogas for transport are not yet sufficient. There is much more potential for increasing biogas production than mentioned in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u74	Mr President! It is really important that we develop rail transport, for example this kind of direct rail connection from Pori to Helsinki through Forssa. [Jari Myllykoski’s interlude] Paris climate agreement, this EU application: This is what happened when the EU adopted the emissions target and nabbed it to Finland. I'm afraid so. The share of coal in electricity production: Poland 92 %, Bulgaria 90 %, Romania 90 %, Denmark 48 %, Germany 46 % — and Germany still support brown, coal production in eastern Germany — and Finland 6.7 %. EU emission reduction targets: only 7% for Poland, 2% for Romania, 0% for Bulgaria. In other words, Finland, which uses the least coal, achieved a emission reduction target of 39 per cent. The most polluting Member States, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, immediately announced that they would not accept an agreement that would undermine their industrial conditions. In other words, in order for the EU to be able to sign the agreement, the proportion of the largest polluters was transferred to the least polluting countries, such as Finland. At the same time, it was completely ignored that Finnish energy and industrial plants have already minimised their emissions in the past. And as far as the objectives of this Paris climate agreement are concerned, according to the best universities in the world, MIT, by 2100 only 0.2 degrees would slow down this warming. With these objectives:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u77	Mr President! I must say that we agree with Mr Huhtasaari on the train, but Trump is driving our opinion off the rails. And let us say that there is a steel plant in Raahe where hydrogen is already reduced, and it is no longer at the stage of research, but is not completed. One more comment for Mr Huhtasaari: Tourism is great, and it is great that our livelihoods in this area can develop, but we must always remember whether it is a climate action to leave Helsinki by flying. To Kittilä and then to go for salmon fishing. I say that it is far from green that if we want to promote the development of air transport for tourism,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u78	Mr President! It is precisely the fact that we have understood that CO2 emissions must be eliminated and we have managed to agree in the Paris climate agreement that the climate temperature will not rise above 1.5°C is the reason why we are forced to seek new innovations to reduce carbon emissions. This also results from the fact that steel will be made in the future without coal. But if we did not have these objectives, we would also have no incentive to make a better climate policy. Yes, we must also see that necessity is made a virtue. That's when it's ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u79	Mr President! This is where Mr Huhtasaari said that the warlords should pay. Then, in the second sentence, he defended Trump's climate policy. This equation doesn't close. Under the leadership of Trump, the United States has resigned itself from the Paris climate agreement — a very irresponsible act. We know what he is doing with carbon emissions in the United States all the time. I also think that rhetoric, Mr President, must have its limits when there is such a serious issue as climate change, which we have time for perhaps the next parliamentary term, the next European Parliament term, to prevent effectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u80	Mr President! With regard to this betrayal of Donald Trump's climate agreement, what it has now been called, President Sauli Niinistö in Yle's presidential election acknowledged that although Trump has resigned, he is cutting emissions and doing climate action. And when it comes to saving the earth, Finland's emissions are about 16 per mil of global emissions, and with this model we do not actually reduce emissions in the world. This model may even lead, as has been the case with previous agreements, to an increase in emissions, because the factories of those countries that have handled their affairs well are moving to those countries where they are allowed to pollute freely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u81	Reply, Mr Myller, again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u82	Mr President! Just for a minute. To that end, we need these global climate agreements to involve everyone in these emission reductions. But let me say once again that we should start with the idea that when we are forced to do these climate works and we have knowledge, we will also seek new growth and jobs for ourselves, and this aspect must also be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u83	Mr President! The clock is ticking, which means the clock is ticking. Climate change is a fact. It is visible from the window of the cabin at the moment, and indeed time is running out for its effective control. Indeed, as has been said here, Finland is falling into its stalemate, and we are a pioneer. Minister Tiilikainen was one of the EU's main negotiators when he concluded the Paris climate agreement and did an important job there. Of course, the role of the EU is important now that we are approaching the new and European elections in the coming years, and the EU can play a leading role when these large polluters do not take it that way. So really, worldwide, we should start by paying for the polluters. It would actually take some kind of carbon tax, carbon tax, but it's idealism. Of course, then the market would begin to function. But I still wonder, President, about the adoption of Mr Trump's climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u86	Mr President! Of course, when Parliament adopted the 2030 climate and energy strategy in this Chamber, we must be glad that almost all of us in this House agreed. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy produced a report on this at the time, and I also think that our proposals were in the right direction and were good. As far as the United States, China or India are concerned, in my opinion, Mr Huhtasaari, it is wonderful that small Finland and The Nordic countries will show the way, show the world the way and show the way to what this carbon-free society can be, because it is the only way to act. From experience, I can say that even in Washington as an enthusiastic Finnish circular economy enthusiast, when I introduced Finnish expertise after President Trump’s election, it was no longer really working out for us Finns or Europeans. That there is something completely different about the world of thought in the United States. There's talk of oil, gas. However, it may be true at the state level that renewable energy, the circular economy and new solutions may be present there, but what is currently the United States' so-called ‘official line’ is not what we might hope for. But, Mr President, the reason why I asked to speak is actually because, first of all, Finland is the President of the EU in 2019 and now we have the opportunity to show both the whole of Europe and the world what we know. Of course, it would be desirable to: The Sipilä government too would see this opportunity and those talks would also turn into actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u91	Mr President! Much has been said today in this Chamber about transport, and when transport is part of the non-emission trading sector, where we have a 39% obligation to reduce emissions. . . [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u94	Mr President! In my previous speech, I expressed my concern at the claim that coal sinks in this country will be reduced as forests are managed. That is not the case either in reality or in the light of numbers or in the light of scientific studies. Of course, if you take a little detail and you start arguing about it, that detail may be just like that, but the big picture, the statistics and the actual research results certainly prove that carbon sinks are growing all the time when forests are being managed. Our goal is to make the forests grow even better. An annual growth of about 135, up to 140 million mots is possible when we put the forests in order. That's a little bit of climate change — that's true — warming, but now that it's a reality that's not changed in the moment, why can't we enjoy it, once it's to come anyway? The second point is this carbon storage facility. Indeed, during Finland’s independence, the stock of wood has doubled, which means that we have nothing to be ashamed of either. The stock of wood, or coal, has grown at a really wild rate and every year will continue to grow. That is an indisputable fact. While we are still doing the environmental work that should have been done in this country long ago, the efficiency of wood construction in this country will be substantially increased — a wooden house, an apartment building, is currently being built in Joensuu, and it has been in considerable difficulties, not because of technical expertise, but because there are different building regulations that make it difficult to build wood. The same applies to small houses. In my opinion, in this country, the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister for the Environment must take a firm stand on this issue and substantially reduce the bureaucracy of wood construction. It is quite incomprehensible that if someone builds a log house in the countryside, for example, then, according to current guidelines, huge air conditioners, a wooden house, a log house that does not need any air conditioners are to be built there. Gravity ventilation and a house built on the ross bottom and a domestic low-emission fireplace, so that's it. And I'm sure he'll never mold, and there'll be no allergies in the house. So this system has been on the test in this country for centuries, and now we imagine, in the construction of these terrible beecombines, that this is what we are doing to save the world. I'm sure that's not the way to save it. So we use more wood to build. The carbon sink will then continue to improve and the standard of living of Finns will rise. This creates a huge amount of work in Finland. Every single hit that can be made from forests is extremely important, and also from the point of view of the climate objectives set out in the Government's report. The second thing that has to do with it is to use our own forests, which means that this debate on transport fuels is, in a way, being supported by this use of forests. In thinning fellings, we have timber coming to the roadside every year, which may not be suitable for pulpiers, for example, or for sawmills. This low-value wood is definitely worth processing into transport fuel, whether it be diesel or petrol, through the bio-distribution industry. Let's raise that share of bio-division in domestic gas. It is not a trick, and nothing is, to drive cars in Brazil today that work with almost pure bioethanol. True, it is made there from sugar cane, but what does it matter? It can also be made with existing equipment from wood and many other raw materials. So we have opportunities, and most importantly, Mr President, we have technology. We already know things very well. We may not be the best in the world everywhere, but we are definitely Europe's top country at the moment. What are we standing before it for if someone criticizes us that we do not have the forests to protect? With regard to forest protection, Finland is also the number one country in the European Union. The others are far behind us, far behind us. Finland is also the absolute number one in these statistics. We should have a breast in the ratting in the halls of the Brussels administrative palaces and not scurrying around in the corners when we are reproached by some German. These are cold facts, even in the light of numbers, there is no need for understatement, Mr Myller. This is a cold fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u95	Mr President! Finland’s first medium-term plan for climate change policy is concrete for the non-ETS sector, i.e. the so-called burden sharing sector, to achieve the 2030 targets. I think this plan is important. Finland must continue its pioneering role in an ambitious climate policy to realise growth potential, but ahead of its own country. The plan states that it is an important step towards carbon neutrality. Carbon neutrality means that emissions and sinks are balanced. The most significant emission reduction potential in the burden-sharing sector is in transport. The aim is therefore to promote low-carbon transport by supporting the purchase of full electric cars and the conversion of gas or ethanol into old cars. In fact, the State budget for this year amounts to EUR 6 million and EUR 8 million for the scrapping of vehicles. I believe that this is the right and sufficient investment at this stage. The public sector must primarily act as an enabler for development, as an obstacle remover and as a supporter of compatibility, not as the owner of a private vehicle. Agriculture accounts for about 20% of the emissions from the burden-sharing sector. It is important to promote research projects that provide more information on the most effective methods of binding carbon to soil. The factors governing the mechanisms for the degradation of organic matter in different environmental and soil conditions and the measurement of soil carbon stocks are still topical research subjects. Here again, however, we must not succumb to hysteria, but support agriculture throughout Finland. The Government Programme includes a target to increase the recycling rate of municipal waste to 50%. In the long term, the increase in recycling and the shift towards a circular economy will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and I think this is well understood in Finland. The fact that food waste accounts for about 30% of households should also be understood and, above all, that loss should be reduced. The harvesting of wood is very important in Finland, as Mr Hoskonen has just said. It is clear that increased harvesting of wood can also have adverse effects on biodiversity and water bodies. According to the study, the impacts will also depend on how possible additional fellings are carried out, on which fractions the harvesting of energy wood is targeted and on what measures are taken to prevent adverse effects. Finland's forests currently have more wood than ever since the beginning of the 19th century. This is not a belief or a belief, but researched information. Our forests also grow more than ever before. Over the last 50 years alone, forest growth has doubled from 50 million cubic metres to over 100 million cubic metres. This is also researched data. This growing of trees has not come by accident or accident, because the fact is that almost EUR 10 billion has been invested in forests over the last 25 years. As our forests grow, they absorb carbon dioxide from the air. Forests are therefore an effective means of combating climate change. Forest carbon storage increases when wood is cut down on growth. Only about two thirds of our growth is currently being exploited. However, our national will in the midst of climate change is that our well-being will be increased by making effective use of forests and wood. If forest fellings are raised from the present but growth remains higher than fellings, forests remain a carbon sink. Do growing fellings and forest management threaten the diversity of forest habitats? Not if things are done smart. According to the Natural Resources Centre and the Finnish Environment Agency, the most important factors in promoting forest biodiversity are dead wood, robust, living savings trees and fire. According to researchers, biodiversity can be managed even if fellings are significantly increased. This is also researched information and does not burn in the fire either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u96	Mr President! Self-sufficiency is an extremely important issue, that is to say local food, clean food, and, at the same time, animal rights can be upheld. Unfortunately, this is a 20% target for agriculture, which is already under pressure. You should also look at these issues more broadly from the point of view of why these same, sorrowless countries, such as China and India, are trampling on human rights, workers' rights, dumping, dumping with wages. We want to do climate policy, but that must be fair. We want to make free trade, but we also need to be fair. You don't have to mess with a little thing and then leave a big picture out of sight, because that's not how you change the world. Finland is a yes-man, always only a yes-man in the EU, Finland there does not really dare to demand or stand up for anything. We think the smiley boy statue method works, but it doesn't work. It has always been this way in the world that those who cry out the hard ones get the most. Here, too, Finland should have insisted that when Poland received EUR 84 billion of cohesion money, it could have earmarked part, slice, and put Finnish cleantech expertise there. Finland has it, and that would have been the way to really improve the world again. Finns must stand up for Finns, no one else will. It is an interesting idea that we always think that Finnish affairs are better decided in the EU, but it is nowhere like that. First of all, the basic Finnish policy is that it is me who decides, then the family, then the municipality or parliament, and none of us would want to give decision-making power outside because nobody else does it better. We need to make a big change of direction on so many issues, and this climate policy
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u97	Mr President! First of all, I have to say that I'm going through the "who's the most out loud" thing in a little other way, which is that if you scream hard behind other, big backs, you usually get your ass kicked and nothing more. [Laura Huhtasaari’s interlude] But, in fact, the emissions targets for transport are a big part of this report — or is it said that they are a big issue and a big challenge for Finnish society — but there is still a need for new innovations in addition to everything else, how we should do things smarter in terms of transport emissions, and in this debate I took the floor, in which I spoke — when, at the moment, there is a lot of work traffic being controlled so that passenger cars are given a tax benefit — that it would be much better for those who give up using their own car to get a second car. In this way we would create new opportunities. The same has to be said that the transport policies of the government and of the parliamentary working group are completely lacking in the water transport of unsolicited heavy masses. As far as transport is concerned, there has not been a single talk in this Chamber today that we should be able to include water transport as a part of the fact that we should be able to carry more heavy masses of rubber wheels by water.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u98	Mr President! Finally, for my part, this climate policy and targets for 2030. Although such a plentiful public is, when there has been a slight decrease, I note that we Finns, despite everything that has been said, still have all the important conditions for the rational management of the energy economy within the borders of this country. It is true that we are still importing crude oil from abroad. It's a natural thing. Unfortunately, however, we also import coal from the strangest places, and on the basis of that, for example, in this city, it is a good form of heating. If anyone does not believe my speech, it is worth a little study trip in Stockholm, the capital of our Western neighbor. There the job has been done, and Fortum, a Finnish energy company, has invested a lot of money in large power plants near Stockholm. Why? That's where the bioeconomy works, that's the reason. It is where Fortum has injected a lot of Finnish tax money and makes profits and makes clean energy for both the city of Stockholm and the surrounding areas — electricity, district heating and so on. This means that we believe in possible success outside our own borders, but in this country we do not always, in any case, believe. That is why, Mr President, we should get out of this feeling of inferiority and actually start to do these bioeconomy activities with the breast up. We also have the technology to do that, as I said in my previous speech. The cold fact, however, is that coal will continue to be an important form of energy production in the world. It's gonna be in Germany. Who today imagines that the huge metal melts and metal factories in the German Ruhr area, the car factories... All that production, you know? In Germany, as we know, it takes a great deal of energy. That electricity will not be made by shutting down nuclear power plants, because such a heavy industry, as we know, requires a steady electric current, a steady energy, and there are not many other ways to do it. That is why we in Finland must put this climate policy in a position to make as much clean energy as possible. We give the opportunity, of course, to wind power, to give the opportunity to biofuels, to give a little opportunity to build up additional hydropower. And the construction of the leak pool, which I have always spoken about, although I know it is the Herald in this house and it is blessed and it has been hit on all the sacred stakes — despite the fact that, according to the flood protection in Rovaniemi, there is a very clear, huge problem. In France, the Seine flooded enormously. The rivers near the capital region have likewise been flooded by the severe rains of last autumn. What's next spring? That's why we should put these things in order. With studies that are reliable, why do we not believe them ourselves? That is why, Mr President, it would be necessary for this country to use the technological advantage we have in the production of CHP power, among other things. It is domestic, the best know-how that works very effectively when it needs to work: when it is very cold. In January 2016, critical moments were taking place, some of the Finnish electricity grid was being driven down, because electricity generation plus purchased electricity from this country was not enough. We were saved only by two things, and only by the weekend: however, when there was a lot of market in the West and more and more from Russia, when there was a holiday weekend there, whether it was a freezer party or whatever, but the party was, and the production was going down, and the Russian sold us, at a good price, of course, to his friend, electricity. Thank you for helping us out in distress. That, too, is something we need to put right. There must be electricity in this country if we want to sell and make these products. The machines of the New Town Car Factory do not work with just holy spirit or electricity made with catskin, but it does require a genuine power current with which the Mercedes is generated, ships are welded at the Turku shipyard — and many other things. Paper mills don't run unless there's electricity. This is why in this country we have to start to understand that we are a little more selfish, we are breast-fed, we tell you that we know how to do this and we make it an export product. Exports of energy-friendly and climate-friendly Finnish products are not an environmental act in a negative sense. On the contrary, it is positive because it supports the development of other countries for better, cleaner energy. It must be understood at last and finally. Mr President! I hope that this Finnish energy policy will be seen as a huge opportunity and not as a threat. We're the ones who do this, otherwise no one's gonna do it for us. It's up to us to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u99	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen will cause this plethora of people to react to the speech they have made. I have to say from the previous speech when Mr Hoskonen said that Mr Myller was underestimating that I too had a smile, but it was in a friendly spirit, in other words, the very colorful language of the squatting on the part of the EU palaces, that is, it came into that context. Indeed, every metal processing plant in Finland is an international environmental act, but the emissions that have been achieved have come as part of our ongoing active policy, including that of the climate, through tightening legislation. But with that new energy support plan, we have to say that there is no part of it. Also, for the part of renewable energy, which is dependent on the wind, for example, we should also have increased the control force at the same time, because we need this similarity, that when hard frosts have that wind a little bit less, then we need just the same kind of CHP plants that produce our heat and electricity in this country more. It would have made sense to allow them to do so as a whole. It is somewhat perverse that we are currently paying subsidies to a Russian chip, but the domestic bite is rotting in its lobby.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u100	Värderade Talman! Colleagues spoke well about these CHP plants. The fact is that in the Nordic energy market there will be plenty of electricity in the next few years, but there will be a shortage of both control and peak power at the same time. We should have a much deeper debate on the adequacy of electricity power in Finland anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u101	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u102	Madam President! A new law on the processing of personal data in the Defence Forces is proposed in the Government proposal currently under discussion. Provisions on the processing of personal data would be incorporated into the law on the powers of the Defence Forces. Proposals for amending certain accompanying laws to transfer the provisions on the processing of personal data to the new law are included in the proposal. The proposal also includes proposals for amending the voluntary law on defence and the Security Clearance Act. This proposal is linked to the overall reform of data protection legislation, which is based on the European Union's regulation on data protection. The EU Data Protection Regulation and the Criminal Data Protection Directive will apply from May 2018 and are intended to replace the General Personal Data Act currently applicable. Bringing the data protection provisions of the Defence Forces together in a single law would enable the processing of personal data in the Defence Forces to be regulated in a modern and comprehensive manner in accordance with the life cycle model of data processing. One law would then reveal which registers of persons The Defence Forces have what is collected in the registers, for what purposes the data are used, for whom data can be disclosed and for how long the data are stored in the registers. The adoption of a separate Personal Data Act would at the same time enable the regulation of personal data by the Defence Forces to be equivalent to that of other national security authorities. The processing of personal data by the police, the Border Guard and Customs, among other things, has been regulated for years by separate personal data laws. The register would be centralised with the Chief Staff, which would be responsible for the lawful processing of personal data. The Chief Staff would have an independent Data Protection Officer who will advise on matters related to the processing of personal data and monitor the legality of the processing within the organisation. The new law would also provide a more flexible regulatory technique that would better adapt to changes in processing needs. The sections on the exchange of information between the authorities would be updated as a whole, a number of gaps in the information exchange provisions would be filled and bureaucracy would be reduced in general. For example, in connection with passport applications, the police could receive information on the performance of military duties electronically from the Defence Forces. Educational institutions could also receive electronic information on the performance of the military service. The Defence Forces would receive information on the state of health of those entering the military service earlier and more comprehensively than is currently the case. Effective pre-screening can reduce the number of service interruptions and thus also achieve savings. Mr President! For the first time, the proposed law would provide for the processing of personal data relating to military intelligence. The Personal Data Act does not create any competence for the acquisition of information; it is simply a question of the rules governing the processing of the information acquired. There must always be a mandate for information to follow from other laws. The personal data of the military intelligence would be stored in the military intelligence register. The starting point is that only information deemed relevant for the performance of the tasks may be entered in the register. However, information obtained in the context of intelligence missions, the relevance of which cannot be immediately determined, should be temporarily deposited for six months in the register to establish its relevance. Intelligence information should only be disclosed abroad under strict conditions. The condition is that extradition is necessary to ensure national security or the prevention and detection of criminal offences. Military intelligence is a long-term activity and therefore personal data should be kept in the register for 50 years. However, the need for data should be assessed every five years and unnecessary data deleted immediately. The data subject would not be able to check for himself what data is processed by the military inquiry about him, but anyone can ask the data protection officer to check that his data is processed legally. The indirect right of access through the Data Protection Supervisor thus safeguards the exercise of the rights and privacy of data subjects.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u103	Mr President! There is currently no centralised legislation on the processing of personal data concerning the defence forces, but specific provisions on the subject have been decentralised into a number of different laws. This does not make much sense because the provisions are partly unnecessarily fragmented and heterogeneous. Furthermore, all processing of personal data by the Defence Forces is, of course, subject to the provisions of the General Personal Data Act. The decentralisation of the provisions into a number of different laws has also led to the need to repeat the same or almost identical provisions for different registers of persons in a number of different laws. The Defence Administration has long considered the concentration of provisions on one law in line with that already in place, for example, with regard to the processing of personal data by the police, the Border Guard, Customs and the Criminal Sanctions Agency. I'm glad we're finally doing this concentration thing. Hopefully, the regulatory framework will continue to be flexible and detailed lists will be kept up to date. As far as I am aware, there is no regulation currently in force on military intelligence and the processing of personal data in connection with it, and I believe that this should be regulated by law. Mr President! The aim of the proposal is, inter alia, to ensure that the protection of personal data in the activities of the Defence Forces is properly regulated and in a manner consistent with the constitutional requirements following the overall reform of data protection legislation. I believe that this proposal is timely and very necessary. Legislation must also be effective in the exercise of the potentially changing powers of the Defence Forces, such as the proposed military intelligence missions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u104	Mr President! Just a brief word about this proposal. The purpose of the proposal is to establish a new law on the processing of personal data by the Defence Forces, which would bring together all the provisions on the processing of personal data by PV. The purpose of the Act is to ensure that the requirement of Article 10(1) of the Constitution to provide for the protection of personal data is properly fulfilled in the activities of the Defence Forces. The proposal relates to the overall reform of Finnish data protection legislation. The proposal includes a proposal to amend the voluntary law on defence. In doing so, personal data regulation binding on the National Defence Training Association would be harmonised with the regulation of the Defence Forces, while ensuring a smooth exchange of information between the Defence Forces and the National Defence Training Association. In addition, the General Data Protection Regulation and the proposed General Data Protection Act would apply to the processing of personal data by the National Defence Training Association. At present, therefore, the Defence Forces do not have centralised legislation on the processing of personal data, but specific provisions on this subject have been decentralised into a number of different laws. Misunderstanding and misapplication are therefore risky. The same applies to the MPK association. Mr President! The police, the Border Guard and Customs and the Criminal Sanctions Agency already have one personal data law in place. A similar law is being sought in this proposal, and I believe that this is necessary and I therefore support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u105	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 3/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u106	Mr President! It is a package of laws, the second part of which is now under discussion. This is a three-part, which means the first part has come earlier, the second part now, and the third part is coming. This is the report in this second part. I am going to go over some of these briefly, which has been discussed here. Of course, I am not presenting a report of this size in its entirety, and so a very limited model has been drawn up. In many respects, it has actually been red tape dismantling, and it may be the red thread that is involved. There has been a number of issues here, including training, professional qualifications, for both road transport and rail transport. This has been zoomed into the future, which is the greatest need and view we should look at. This has looked at the different details, such as accessibility, the views of the authorities on these issues, but it has also been emphasised all the time that, since there is a large package involved, monitoring needs to be carried out very carefully. However, what emerges at the level of the committee as a whole, and certainly in this Chamber debate, is the law, let us say, an exceptional structure in relation to other legislative proposals, the government's proposals. This is where the Constitutional Committee has delivered its own opinion and, as natural and normal, the Constitution is respected and the findings that are there will then be corrected. Here are two points of view around the committee's table on how to make that correction. At this point, I say that this is not unanimous, that is to say, a motion of rejection, which is widely proposed by the opposition. On the other hand, the majority of the committee is in favour of giving the Ministry proper instructions and the possibility of correcting and requiring the third part of this legislative package to correct these detected errors. As a result, we have made a very strong statement to this effect. Actually, there are two statements here. This second, although of lesser importance, concerns the training and professional qualifications of the Defence Forces in relation to it, and it reads: ‘The Commission requires the Government to seek to develop a system that facilitates the exercise of heavy traffic tasks on the basis of an accelerated professional qualification training of the Defence Forces. “ This is the educational and professional aspects that were discussed. But then this very strong statement came into the structure of the law, which, once again, comes from the statement that the proposal of the third phase government of the project will ensure that the law becomes a clear and sensibly structured entity based on running numbering. This is the kind of statement that the committee is making, and in this report we can find these bases in more detail. This is a really big package, with many details that have been considered in consultation with experts. Amongst other things, there have been corrections to Åland's affairs and also to these many small details, but the main point of this debate, this debate in the Chamber, is probably in that opinion of the Constitutional Committee. There are two solutions to this around the committee's table. The second is that it is rejected, and the majority of the committee has made these strong binding statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u107	Mr President! The law on transport services is a three-step package, and now we have a second phase of the legislative package at first reading. Last year, we Social Democrats made 28 amendments to the law on transport services, because we wanted the best taxi system in the world not to be scrapped. However, in line with the will of the majority, the new legislation will enter into force on 1 July of this year. The aim of this second section — when reading the legal text — is to implement the Government Programme’s key projects to build a digital growth environment and to streamline legislation. The package under discussion is quite large, 878 pages, and affects 59 different laws. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has given an exceptionally tough opinion on the clarity of regulation regarding the content of the law in question. In the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, the government’s proposal is ‘very difficult to understand and therefore does not have a representative objective of living regulation. This materially jeopardises the clarity of the legislation’,please continue with the Constitutional Affairs Committee. It can also be read in the opinion of the Constitutional Committee that for ordinary citizens, understanding and understanding regulation may be “almost impossible”. ‘Also, the legislative proposals When a general law applicable to transport services would become understandable both in form and in All of this, therefore, is the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also takes a position on the point raised during the debate in the Committee on Transport and Communications that major regulatory changes in committee involve risks and that such a change is otherwise the responsibility of the Ministry as part of the basic preparation. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, a rather tough text which then produced a 194-page report in the Committee on Transport and Communications. Mr President! From the opposition, we Social Democrats, the Basic Finns, the Left Alliance and the Greens protested, which includes a wreck and a motion for a statement. It was built largely on the observations of the Constitutional Committee. The objective of the law to open data interfaces must be supported as such, but the self-determination within the law and the protection of passengers in the travel chain would require a great deal of additional work and clarification. When interfaces are opened, coordination and responsibilities must be clear, known and easily understood. Various security issues also gave rise to widespread concern during the committee's hearings. Similarly, there was a legitimate concern that there would be very different rules and obligations for different operators in the same operating environment when this legislation entered into force. When legislation is being reformed or reduced, I think that the essential condition is not to end up in a situation where safety is suffering or the situation of transport operators is becoming more difficult. For these reasons, among other things, we had to prepare an objection to the law involving a wreck. Finally, Mr President, it must be said that I myself have been humbly allowed to do legislative work for about 11 years on this 194-page report, which was produced in committee, that it is a pity to say that such a legislative project is going to have to be submitted to the committee by the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen, who, in fact, raised it here. If you look carefully at the content of this statement — ‘The Council of State will require the Council of State to draw up legislation in this House on the basis of a provisional number drawn up in the third-stage government’s proposal for a project, based on a clear and rational structure
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u108	Mr President! It's a very big whole. For myself, when I jumped on a so-called moving train, it has been even more challenging to embrace everything that has been difficult to absorb and which is then reflected in the report and the government proposal that has come here. It has been terribly difficult to explain this, and when Mr Taimela spoke before me, I will not prolong it to myself, but I would like to emphasise the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this government proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that ‘regulation technology can lead to difficult regulation, even for experts. “ And when you have not finished your legal training, you must be sure that it will also be quite difficult for a Member of Parliament to open up in committee. “For the ordinary citizen, the understanding and characterisation At that point, you think that I hope the citizen will not ask Mrs Myllykoski what you have meant. That is why the committee's proposal, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen, has said here, is absolutely necessary. It would have been good to have it in order by the summer, but now it seems that we will meet and meet with it in the autumn. This is a big picture, and it is right that the traffic curve should be taken forward. The equality of service providers must not be threatened at any time, but it is the law that must safeguard the legal protection of entrepreneurs, but also of customers, so that no one becomes discriminated against and the law does not distort competition. Mr President! Let us hope for a better continuation of this, but — with these personal feelings — even though it would have been technically quite difficult to achieve, that this has been tried again before the first comes into force, it is important that this be done in the future. But you will understand why Mr Myllykoski, a member of the committee, is behind this rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u109	Mr President! Part 2 of the Act on transport services is now before us, and the work of the committee is sufficient to enable us to conduct a major consultation and to study this matter carefully. First of all, it was about the reform of the Road Traffic Act and its services and transport systems, but now things have expanded to rail, air transport and maritime transport. If we look at a big picture of a traffic break-in and change, we're facing a big deal. Transport will be electrified, digitalisation will be part of transport, and transport services will be open and accessible to all. The need for mobility is changing, and that is why legislation must also change. It must also enable new business and service providers, the customer and the customer’s mobility needs at the centre. That is why I say that the law on transport services, the traffic arch, is necessary at all stages. The first result of preparing the arc, the legislative package on road transport, has therefore passed the parliamentary process, but this is a continuum, and I believe that if we do not, in our way, move forward on this path, where qualifications are concerned, the exploitation of data and information and interfaces, then we will not achieve the big picture that has taken place in this area. The Transport Services Act brings together the legislation of the transport market and creates the conditions for the digitalisation of transport and new business opportunities. Thus, in the first phase, regulations on road transport were incorporated into the Transport Services Act. At this second stage, legislation on the air, sea and rail markets and the qualifications of transport personnel was now included. The first phase will be followed by a second phase, and we know that the third stage is still to come, so that the law on transport services can be used in all transport sectors in a genuine and genuine way. The main aim of the Transport Services Act is to promote the digitalisation of transport services and the more efficient use of information. The opening of information will continue at this stage of the Transport Services Act, and it will be necessary, for example, to consider the travel chains. So we are now bringing in its support, so that a single ticket system would be possible for genuinely flagging the various travel chains together by means of a single means of payment. When she wants to go to Tallinn, she would be able to buy a taxi ride to and from the railway or bus, and then a ferry ticket and possibly accommodations and all the other services she wants in. This is this digital age, this time we are living in, and what people also long for and want. In other words, it is important that the information is open and can be used in the context of new business opportunities. Mr President! As far as professional qualifications are concerned, legislation and legislation are being reduced as much as possible in the form and application of European Union legislation, so now, in rail transport, for example, with regard to the qualifications of train drivers, maritime transport and air transport. These last two are very regulated by the EU, so we have to apply a great deal of the legislation that we have been given. Mr President! As far as the committee's statement is concerned, when we combine a great many different laws and create a new service system for transport services, it is necessary to make a monitoring system for how this change is genuinely and effectively implemented and what happens. I therefore agree that monitoring is being carried out. Even when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has given an opinion to us in the Committee on Transport and Communications on the need to streamline the regulations and clarify and clarify the numbering and language of articles. We said in this report and we want to say that it will then be the law on transport services in the third stage, and that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u110	Mr President! Indeed, we are now dealing with the law on transport services and the second package of this three-part package of legislation. This second phase has therefore raised the issue of training, professional qualifications, the opening of registers, interfaces and their transparency, the availability and release of data and information. All in all, it is a question of digitalisation in accordance with the Government Programme and the Government’s objectives and of streamlining the regulations. The committee has worked very hard on this and has had extensive consultations. In my view, this package is a very successful whole and has a significant impact. It will contribute to modernising our travel system and will bring it into line with today's and future requirements. The law promotes the creation of a business environment that offers opportunities for completely new types of business and services, even those we cannot imagine at the moment. So, as a whole, a good package, and as we know, the third part is still coming. These statements have now been discussed here, and the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the layout of this legislative package must, of course, be taken seriously. I believe that the Ministry will continue to take note of this and, in accordance with the instructions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this will be put in new shape. However, it must now be remembered that it is in practice a matter of numbering legal articles, not a more dramatic matter. When you listen to these speeches, you get the impression that this is as if it were a gibberish whole proposal now, but this is not a question; it is only a question of whether the articles are numbered or not, whether running numbering is used or not. According to the report we have received, this will be corrected in the future and this comment will also be taken into account in future proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u111	Mr President! First of all, it should be borne in mind that, of course, the draft law can always be criticised, but there was only one thing that went wrong, that is, to correct one section of the law in order to comply with this requirement for a constitution. It is always worth remembering that the opinions of the Constitutional Committee are easily invoked by the fact that there is a word of god here. It does not work that way, but it has been carefully looked at what goes into so-called effort and what does not go into effort. Of course, criticism can always be expressed; there is no complete section in this country that has been reportedly yet to be made. The Constitution that Ståhlberg and his aid team once wrote must have been pretty close to perfection, but there too, please note, when the time has passed for a hundred years, we have seen shortcomings, and that is because time is changing. It should be remembered here that this legislative package has been prepared for a long time by all of us in the parliamentary groups. The Committee on Transport and Tourism has held a major consultation on this matter, which means that there has been no indifference or carelessness, on the contrary. Thank you to the committee for your strong work. Transport services have changed in recent years, and we cannot do anything about that. Just as Mr Vehkäperä mentioned and described in his speech, the world has indeed changed at a fierce pace, and there are often talk of that southern brotherhood of Estonia, why some things are happening more quickly there. Well, they have understood this digital development cycle, how that work goes there, using these modern tools effectively. Of course, this law has not succeeded 100% yet, but it is gradually being filed in better shape over the years. The road transport section has therefore already been approved, and now air, sea and rail transport is on the way. What is important here is to understand that this is a question of travel chains. The chain is as strong as its weakest link. The criticism that has been made is understandable, but when you look at the people of the opposition here, how many people are here, this is not an international migration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u112	Mr President! When I read — or did not read — this report, it came to mind, before it came to that opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that this is rather difficult to understand, but, on the other hand, this whole piece of legislation is not meant for such an ordinary streetwalker. But what Mrs Myllykoski said is true that we are asked quite often what this means and this, and it is, of course, difficult if you are not able to say anything. Mr President will often be with me in the summer at an evening event organised by Mikko Flyktman, which will be attended by medium-Finnish professional drivers, and I am sure that the next time we meet on those terms, such a question will come. I trust that the President has made better efforts than I have, but there is still time. Mr President! This opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has indeed been taken into account here, and it is strong. There seem to be six chapters here, and in each chapter there is a large number of passages, which is, of course, a big number if they are numbered in a running manner. Now I do not know what is currently a legislative guideline within the government, when to keep running numbers, when to divide into figures, and thus sort of divide the whole. But it is good, of course, if there is more clarity so that those concerned can understand it as well as possible. I do not know what this is about, but I am counting on the work done in committee and also on that objection, which is based on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u113	Mr President! As has been heard by many, this is a very diverse, large package. But one thing that's right at the very heart of this whole piece of legislation is to open up the interfaces and take sides. There has been some confusion about how much it obliges and what it needs to do and what it does not. In fact, it has now been repeated and underlined that once this has already been laid down in the first phase, the interface, access to the necessary measures, must be given. So this has now been tried here to open so that it should no longer be unclear to anyone. It must also be given access to its own activities on behalf, and this will enable these new services, activities and developments in transport, which have actually been born here in Finland — a homemade product that spreads to the world — and now, thanks to this package of legislation, we are the world's top priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u114	Mr President! Mr Vehkaperä mentioned in his own speech that this is about professional qualifications, better use of information, promotion and the digital age. Since several speeches have now referred to this unanimous opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would also refer to the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, which we have received in committee. As far as this is concerned, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is concerned, among other things, to call for issues relating to the organisation of the debate, many of which would require practical solutions prior to the entry into force of the mandatory regulation, in the name of data protection and privacy, among other things. It's not a little bit of an observation, either. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also draws the attention of the Committee on Transport and Communications to the legal uncertainty created by the lack of provisions regarding access to databases and the use of information. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy continues that a level playing field can only be achieved if the criteria for authorisation and refusal are transparent and clear. Finally, I would also like to say to Mr Kopra, with all his friendship, that your speech gave the impression that this strong, very strong criticism of the Constitutional Committee would now only be directed at this numbering of the law. That is not the case. We both know that we have been involved in this committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u115	Minister, three minutes. — Well, five minutes. From the Minister's gaze, two more minutes immediately came. That's five minutes to the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u116	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, I would like to say that the drafting of legislation has been carried out in open and interactive cooperation with the industry. All in all, we have had around 20 stakeholder consultations, and we have also continued to work with stakeholders since the completion of the regulation and have made sure that we have the best possible contribution to this implementation. At the same time, I would like to point out that we have received a total of 120 opinions, which have mainly supported the project, and the importance of voting in this respect as a whole is considerable. The Ministry of Transport and Communications takes all the feedback it receives seriously. However, I would like to raise a few points. All in all, the law covers seven parts, which are divided into chapters. The numbering starts at the beginning of each part, and correspondingly the numbering begins at the beginning of each chapter. This choice of legal technical solution has been reached because the legislative project has had to be implemented in three parts due to its scale. If, in the first phase, the regulation had been numbered in a running manner, it would have been challenging to add new articles in the middle of the law. The addition is done by adding the Latin alphabet after the number, and at this point the alphabet would have run out. The lawmaker’s guide allows both running numbering and number numbering. The legislative package has also been reviewed by the Ministry of Justice. We are dealing with a very wide-ranging package. It covers matters from person to person to technical regulation. It is also, above all, aimed at transport professionals and also provides an opportunity to create a whole new use of technology for us. At the same time, however, we need to balance technical details with sufficient precision and at the same time ensure that we maintain technology neutrality as part of the legislation. This is the first type of legislation in Europe, probably also at international level. With regard to the reform of this legislation and how we make transport possible as a service, the Ministry has also received international attention and also the reward for the fact that it has, however, been determined to move the legislation forward. What is important is that we look at what we are making possible in this way. We understand very well the challenges that have been raised here, and we are prepared to tackle them in the third stage of legislation. In order to create a new one, therefore, we need the courage to create solutions for which not all are prepared to answer. Once the Transport Services Act has established a framework that serves a rapidly developing business sector, our main objective is to make it easier for the consumer to move and access wider services and yet also to take into account that we have a lot of general legislation that is also applicable to this point, such as consumer protection and personal data protection. As a whole, it is also important for us to try to assess that, in a broad sense, we also have technical entities that must be recorded as multi-word expressions, and this is certainly the challenge facing us to find a balance between precision and conciseness in drafting laws. This aspect is one part of this package, which has been brought into this legislation specifically from the financial sector and is therefore not entirely new legislation, new reflection or new practice, but it is a very important element of it that it makes it possible to apply the law on transport services to entities in which personal data are included, and also to take account of individual ticket discounts for pensioners or students, for example. It is always the person's own will, and in this respect it is always the person's own decision-making power. That is what we will continue to do together, and I thank the committee for its careful work, cooperation, extensive consultations and all the food that the ministry has received. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u117	It took me five minutes and 1 second.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u118	Mr President! I'm done with a little less. — I congratulate both the Minister and the committee on this work. The above mentioned climate emissions, their challenges. In fact, I was a little late for the debate, but in fact this legislation is also linked to controlling climate emissions in many ways. As one of the strategic areas of action, the Government has new ways of working, where digitalisation is very central, and it has been good to note that the Sipilä Government, especially the Ministry of Transport, has been a pioneer in this in many ways, creating new transport chains, facilitating access to customer services and so on, and in that sense I am encouraging this work to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u119	Mr President! Here we have just heard our thanks for the work and work done by the committee, and in particular our thanks for this committee's work should be given to the committee advisers, who, in this regard, had to do work which should have been done more carefully on the Ministry's side. And indeed, if the report is 194 pages, we can see it as a rather exceptional report for Parliament or for this House. Nevertheless, there were still a great many shortcomings in that draft law, which were so large that even the committee advisers or the committee could simply not correct it at this reading. This very clear language is explained by the committee's proposal for a statement 2, in which the committee requires the Government to prepare, in its proposal for the third phase of the project, a text based on a running number of articles on the law, which is clear in terms of language and sensibly structured. It is particularly worrying that, once again, the government is going to come up with a proposal that fails to take account of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' comments so that language in the preparation has been adapted to the model that ordinary people could have taken a clear but, above all, even those professionals. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that even professionals find it difficult to interpret this legislation. That is why it is important that, in the third stage, those numbers and the text of the articles and others be changed to make it easier to interpret, but this does give a very special impression about Parliament, that first we prepare in a hurry, that we complete the first part of the text and that the timetable for it be completed. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u124	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u125	Mr President! Since I was not able to participate in the referral to this government’s proposal at the time, I thought I would rectify this now. This proposal, the adoption of which is proposed by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities without amendment, is implemented in two respects. First of all, this implements the new regulation on the European employment services network, namely EURES, and, more specifically, the requirement to establish a national accreditation system in accordance with Article 11 of that Regulation. The second, more indirect issue is that this proposal implements the recording of the current Government Programme to increase the role of private employment services, especially for those who are more employable. The proposal will allow new players to benefit from wider job seekers and CVs in their employment services business. Mr President! The benefits of this reform are particularly the so-called 'easy-to-work' unemployed, as well as sectors and businesses where there is an acute shortage of skilled labour. According to Statistics Finland’s release last month, nearly 45 per cent, or about 19,000 vacancies, were difficult to fill and their number had increased by 6,000 per year. In order to fill even some of these hard-to-fill jobs, more government proposals of this kind are needed. For example, I would like to give serious consideration to the proposals that in the future foreign students will also have the right to work alongside their studies, as well as the implementation of targeted recruitment in areas where labour shortages are difficult and continue to be long-term. For example, this is what we have in the care sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u126	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u127	Mr President! The amendment to the Church Act suggests that a candidate in the congregation elections, or a loved one, could no longer serve as a member of the election committee. I think that this is a good improvement, especially as it became apparent during the parish elections, at least in 2014, that there were different interpretations of the obstacle of the election commission. The Church Assembly has argued that the issue of accessibility in ecclesiastical elections should be treated in the same way as in general elections, which is why in ecclesiastical elections it is necessary to assess the obstacle of a member of the Electoral Commission as well as the obstacle of members of the Central Electoral Commission in general elections. So there's an article 19 for this. Article 19(1) of the Church Act, as well as Article 19(1) of the Church Act, would be amended to delete the reference to the vicar as a compulsory member of the Electoral Commission. Mr President! In order to avoid this, it is necessary to select a sufficient number of alternates for the Electoral Commission, particularly in small congregations. — This in shortness.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-13-ps-21.u128	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, TAVM 1/2018 vp will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the legislative proposals at second reading.
