ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 20 March 2018. In the debate, Katja Taimela Suna Kymäläinen has suggested that the bill be rejected. In addition, Katja With the support of Suna Kymäläinen, Taimela has proposed that Parliament adopt a statement in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u2	We must now vote on the adoption or rejection of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u3	Since the draft laws have been adopted by Parliament in accordance with the report, I believe that, pursuant to Article 42(2) of the Constitution, I cannot present a proposal for a vote in the debate because it is contrary in substance to the decision already taken by Parliament in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 4/2018 vp. The committee proposes that the bill be rejected. In the debate, Mika Raatikainen, supported by Leena Mere, has proposed that the bill contained in the citizens' initiative be taken as the basis for the discussion. I believe that the content of the draft law is unconstitutional, so, pursuant to Article 42(2) of the Constitution, I cannot present Mika Raatikainen's proposal on the basis of which to vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u5	The 6th issue of the agenda is the topical debate on Finland's regional development, urban and rural policy and the opportunities of the sub-regions. The first speeches of the topical debate, each for a maximum of 5 minutes, will be used by the first signatories to the discussion initiatives behind the debate, Mr Petri Honkonen and Mr Lea Mäkipää. The Prime Minister's speech, including a maximum of 5 minutes, is made by Anu Vehviläinen, Minister of Local Government and Reform. After that, I will give you the one-minute or no more than two-minute response in the order in which I am considering it. Answers are reserved by V-button. All the time available for this debate is 1.5 hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u6	Mr President! Unfortunately, urban-rural confrontation is again rampant in this country. Helsinki’s busy mayor is the leader of the dispute. For example, Helsinki, which is important to all Finns, should compete with the rest of Finland, but internationally. However, the goal of her and her family members is to bring down the social and regional reform and to concentrate the Finnish people with their services and jobs only in the largest cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u17	Mr President! My discussion initiative focuses on Finnish rural policy, which is what I am talking about. I love the countryside. I come from a small town in Pirkanmaa. We're pretty good, but not the way we used to be. Finland’s transformation from a poor, agricultural-intensive country to a rich industrial country has been faster than the human mind’s comprehension. I fear that in the heat of success we will forget that Finland is not just in cities. There is still a home for 1.6 million Finns in rural areas, but the situation is bad. Young people move away, often stay in their study places, and older people stay. There are always fewer services already running at a high speed. Either we intervene or we allow the countryside to be deserted. The decisions must be made now. I want to keep the whole of Finland inhabited. That is why we have taken the initiative. 4.5 million people live outside the capital region. From the perspective of the rest of Finland, Finland is being developed in a very capital-driven way. The question is whether this is the concentration policy that results in people packing up in cities. Why should Finland as a whole be kept inhabited? For one thing, Mannerheimintie does not grow food. Food for Finns’ table grows in rural areas. The Finnish person wants to eat pure Finnish food, even more and more. Even foreigners in the world have been interested in Finnish food. Oats are already a hit product. Domestic berries increase their reputation, and even Finnish piglets are taken all the way to China. Secondly, there is more work in rural areas than agriculture. Tourism is the strongest growth in rural enterprise. A city person needs pure nature and quiet. That is what Finland’s forests, watercourses and fells offer in abundance. The biggest destinations in Lapland are growing at a high speed. It's an unimaginable rate of growth in the industry. Rural tourism cannot be run remotely: local people and local businesses are needed. Finland is therefore interested in its entirety, not only in Lapland. Finland is a safe and exotic destination for the people of all the major cities that have been seen. This niche is worth taking advantage of now. You have to have the right kind of training in the right place. Finnish language skills must be ensured. Thanks to blue, it is possible to take part in an experiment in five provincial cities where a school student can choose both foreign languages he or she has studied. Instead of Sweden, you can choose Russian, for example. We need more such decision-making that takes into account the needs of the future. Keeping the countryside inhabited is a security issue. Not only is local regional forces familiar with the region an important part of our defence, but it is also an issue of internal security. Thieves stay away from summer cottages close to permanent settlements. When the population is widespread, the police and the fire department are also close. The inhabitants of the border region create security with their own presence — including on the border with Russia. How do I want to keep Finland inhabited? I'll start with trying. We need to remove the obstacles to small businesses. We have argued that the recovery of corporation tax must be abolished. In the tourism sector in particular, income is very irregular, even depending on the weather. It's hard to predict the result. A similar model should be introduced next year for the future national income register, where business is taxed almost in real time. We have also proposed changes to the social security of the family members of the entrepreneur. Now a family member living at home who does not own a company at all may be regarded as a part-owner of the company. He may be excluded from unemployment benefit and employment measures. We cannot keep such legislation. In addition, the digitisation of rural areas must be accelerated. The fibre optic cables must be drawn across Finland. A well-functioning network connection enables remote work and is an essential condition for any attempt in rural areas. A million Finns are outside the fibre network. A symmetric connection of 100 megabits by 2025 is required for the network's universal service speed. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u18	I would now ask those Members who wish to speak in a fast-track debate to stand up and press the V button. — At this stage, Mr Vehviläinen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u19	Mr President! Does Parliament have a common vision for Finland's development, or do we think that each of us is a representative of his own constituency and possibly a prisoner of his preconceptions, even putting cities and rural areas against each other? This conversation is a good place to mirror our thoughts together. In this speech, I would like to present the joint actions of the government. We have drawn up a national sustainable urban development programme. The background is the new UN Urban Development Programme and the UN Sustainable Development Objective Programme. Sustainable urban development is low carbon, intelligent transport and social cohesion. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has launched the preparation of an intersectoral urban programme. This programme for large cities complements the Sustainable Urban Development Programme. The importance of regional cities will now also be further considered and a separate sub-regional programme will be drawn up for the first time. Growth agreements between the state and cities have been concluded with the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, Lappeenranta—Imatra, Oulu, Joensuu, Tampere, Turku and Vaasa. The MAL agreements for land use, housing and transport have been drawn up with Helsinki, Tampere, Turku and Oulu. New thinking is also needed. According to Aho's report, a so-called bridge agreement with south-west Finland is to be tested. One might think of extending the idea of a bridge agreement to other regions. The Ministry of Finance will launch a reform of regionalisation policy. We assess the need for the reform of regionalisation legislation dating back to 2002. The question is: could we do more government tasks outside the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in a digitalized Finland? The regional reform provides a new democratic and digital platform for regional development work. As part of the reform, Parliament will receive the Growth Services Act. It will reform regional development, employment and business services. The joint objectives and resources of the regions and municipalities can be aggregated through the alliance model. The government has invested in the bioeconomy and clean solutions that bring work to the countryside. Wood has been mobilised from forests and food exports have been promoted. The Norms have been dismantled. Road repair debt has been reduced and the eligibility of broadband projects has been improved. For Eastern and Northern Finland, EU regional development funding is particularly important. It aims at strengthening employment, high skills and innovation-based growth. An EU-funded rural programme is essential for rural development. It provides SMEs and local communities with the opportunity to develop their business or environment. The Government has set up a parliamentary task force for sparsely populated rural areas. Good regional policy is a good economic policy. The regions have many bright strengths on which growth can be built. For example, Lapland emphasises tourism, Ostrobothnia's energy cluster, Eastern Finland's health technology and bioeconomy. For Finland’s balanced development, it is essential that a skilled labour force meeting the needs of working life is available throughout the country. The joint forces of education organisers, municipalities and business must build the ecosystems of knowledge and growth. Cooperation between universities of applied sciences and working life always creates new opportunities. Universities play an important role in the success and attractiveness of the regions. We in Parliament must show how to build a shared and vibrant Finland. We need regional development where different regions, cities and rural areas support each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u20	Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, The first round will take place in two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u21	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity for discussion, because urban policy needs debate and urban policy at the moment, when we know that urbanisation is progressing throughout Europe, globally and also in Finland, and this must not of course be prevented. In Finland, the seven largest cities are expected to grow by one million by 2050. At this point, we have a number of means which should not be abandoned, but which should be supported more and of which the Minister also mentioned these MAL agreements, namely that still, in the future, there must be an opportunity for municipalities, cities and then the state to agree on how to build rail projects together in particular, or with the state to finance them, so that the municipalities will then be obliged to manage housing, and so that jobs can be created from there. Public transport is expected to focus on these urban centres. The city centres are one of them — whether they are the central cities of the provinces or these large cities — that are driving our economic growth. And now I have some concerns about the fact that the C21 meets today and has also been sent to the Ministry of Finance, that they have concerns about their ability to invest in the future, about their pressure to raise taxes: if the operation of these 21 cities deteriorates, it will be quite disastrous for our economic growth and our society as a whole, and this should not be allowed to happen now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u22	Mr President! Finland was built together, so of course we have reason to listen to all the parties – if we want to say that we are all parties here. It is not wrong that everyone speaks for themselves, that there is freedom of speech in Finland, and we specifically need the information in which direction the development takes place. And when I come from that small province, Kainuu, I must say that the workforce is also needed everywhere in Finland. Since last year, we have seen an increase in the number of job vacancies from 400 to 900, and they are not just companies in the metal industry; they need skills and so on. Finland will be built through expertise. That is why I speak in favour of an independent university, or at least a university of applied sciences, in every province in the future, being developed according to its territory.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u23	Mr President! In addition to regional centres, we have very high value added production and industry in areas that are not provincial centres, not even regional cities, but are just ordinary municipalities. For society, they are very important, and many of these companies suffer from a shortage of skilled labour. In many localities there is work for men, necessarily there is no job for women in nearby areas, or vice versa. This can only be addressed through training and, for example, through better recruitment of students in these companies, since they will then be better placed in these companies. In this way, it is important to try to manage the labour force of these companies, because the alternative is not a provincial centre or a capital region, but the alternative is then outside Finland's borders in terms of transition. That is why I would like to see some ideas in this debate that could concretely demonstrate how this shortage of workers in the long run can be dealt with in respect of these high-value operators so that people can live even closer to the job and not just be a capital region or a provincial centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u24	Mr President! Yes, at the beginning of my speech, I thought I should say that the most devastating thing at this stage would be that we would have a confrontation with large cities, provincial cities, regional cities and rural areas. However, we are a small country, and we must build this country together, and this confrontation is the worst poison that can be done. That's why I think that when we have this big city program, then TEAM is a city program going on and then there's also this regional city program, so at some point these have to synchronize in such a way that this sort of confrontation does not come. I am talking about these regional cities myself now that I am part of this regional city programme working group. These regional cities are the second cities of the provinces, but in fact they are very long locomotives of the Finnish economy. Mr Paatero said that these large cities and regional centres are responsible for this economy in Finland, but in fact, when we look more closely, these regional cities play a major role in the economy. Of course, this vitality will come to the towns and cities through their businesses, but I would quickly raise it to this point when I had the time — 15 seconds — for this new way of training, so that these companies will receive the employment services they need on a fast-track basis, and this conversion training will be quite decisive in the sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u26	Mr President! There was enough refreshing thought in that opening talk that I would continue along the same refreshing and thought - provoking line. Now it is true that these two major reforms have had a rotten social welfare reform since the coalition forced its premature freedom of choice, while then the regional reform is not entirely bad — we in a country outside the capital region and Uusimaa even have development potential. The same cap does not apply to melons and bananas; it must also be stated in this regional reform. However, it is now the case that the government parties are engaged in open trade on these two issues, which in themselves do not even belong to one another. It has been said that the assembly will take over the regional reform, if you get the freedom of choice, the centre of the city on the contrary. Both will go to the Blues as long as no one takes down the government and takes the country to a new election where the seats of ministers and representatives will leave. Now that we're doing business, that's what we're gonna do. In my opinion, it is a question of the fate of the nation to keep social immigration under control in particular. This is particularly the case for cities in order to avoid ghettoisation and so on, but also for the whole country. The government has a good immigration policy programme in paragraph 80, but it has not implemented it. What would the government say if I were to offer support from the opposition here for this regional reform, provided that the government fully implements this immigration policy programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u27	Mr. Speaker! The Greens sign what Minister Vehviläinen said, that the various regions support each other and we must rely on the strengths of the regions in order for this country to succeed. Referring to the confrontation: I have not so much sensed it recently in this Chamber, but from these speeches, which were expressed by Mr Honkonen and Mr Mäkipää, I thought I heard it a little bit and I thought it was a little unusual because they are representatives of the government parties, who then bark at the concentration policy, which they see in different places while they are in government. I will use, for example, the reforms of the district court or what has been done to the hospital network in Finland — well, that is another question. Let's go to the positives. I think it is worth further developing instruments such as the MAL agreements and it would be very desirable for us to have more similar tools in the future, for example, in order to promote digitalisation, because there are very interesting fibre projects in the provinces that we should promote in order to ensure the vitality of the provinces. I am concerned that the forthcoming regional reform, when the same sapluon is implemented in very different regions, which are very different in terms of both population and economic structure, and the vitality must be secured at the regional level, can easily happen that this one and the same sapluon does not work everywhere. In other words, I hope that in future we will find ways to encourage the regions to find their own strengths and to make the most of them. That would be important. At the same time, of course, I am concerned about how growth centres will be able to manage their investments in the future. There will be a lot of this feedback, and I'm sure the Minister has some views on it. I understand that even during the Prime Minister's round table, it has been said that meetings of the EU Presidency, the key meetings, in particular, should be organised in areas other than the capital region. There has been broad support for this, but I am not yet aware of whether we are going to intervene. I therefore hope that Finland, during its presidency of the EU, will also show the European Union more than just the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u28	Mr President! I myself live in the least populated region of Western Europe, with a population of up to 0.15 inhabitants per square kilometre. That is why these issues presented in the topical and urgent debate seem very close and supportive. Unfortunately, however, they have a conflict with what the government has done during this period — let us consider the dismantling of postal services, the taxi reform, which threatens to take the last service away from the most remote village, and the training cuts that are the most destructive in the long term. Lapland’s tourism is experiencing its strongest upturn, for example at all key airports there are pressure on investment. Although investments have just been made in Rovaniemi, Ivalo and Kittilä, which shows its volume growth, it should be possible to ensure that these strong tourist flows also leak deep into the countryside, and that can only be achieved by taking care of the entire road network, investments and its maintenance at all times of the year. But even in Lapland one card, tourism, must not be able to develop an industrial base. That is why it has been quite incomprehensible to see why, for example, Kemi has had to twist, fight for the investment in his own port, for the deepening of the fairway, as long as the two closest, larger ports have already received their own investment decisions. The port of Kemi is a key issue for the industrial base of northern Finland. I therefore hope that this investment will be taken seriously and that it will be possible to build the future in more sectors in Lapland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u29	Mr President! I therefore understand that in this debate there is a desire to find common guidelines or a common political will to develop the country as a whole. Then I think that the starting point should be that we both recognise and recognise that we have very different regions in this country, and then I think that all the reforms, all the legislation, all the different political policies and programmes should take account of these very great differences. In my opinion, one of the main problems at the moment is that the regional and social reform does not recognise that we have very different starting points for these reforms, but that same model is being imposed on all regions, and it does not support what we should be trying to achieve and what we are trying to achieve in this debate. I see that all the other measures — different urban policy programmes, investments and so on — will not be successful unless we recognise these differences in these major reforms, and I believe that is a matter of fate if changes are to be made to the provincial law, to the financial law in order to support the capital region, smaller cities, regional towns and rural areas and the archipelago. We need very different models in order to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u30	Mr President! This is a good topic on which we should discuss the possibility of reducing confrontation between cities and rural communities in the future. I myself come from Ostrobothnia, and there are very many municipalities in recent measurements there, especially in Swedish-speaking Ostrobothnia, which did very well in measuring happiness. For the most part, our business life is doing well, the employment rate is good, and there are municipalities where unemployment is at a very low level — someone has said that people there are actually working more than they would like. But then there are some things that spoil our happiness too. You must have noticed recently that there are reports of wolves moving around in people's yards and even in school and kindergarten areas. This is happening again and again in most municipalities and cities, and where does this lead? Well, that leads to people getting scared. They dare not let their children play out alone. Instead of letting their children go to school, they now have to drive their children to schools or kindergartens every morning and afternoon. This is a major handicap for people who want to live in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u31	Mr President! Four things: Firstly, urban policy, spending limits policy, regional policy, rural policy should not be contrasted. There must be conditions for living in different parts of the country. That is the right starting point. Secondly, we need positive structural change in every province, then let it be like this kind of bridge programme, where business, municipalities, universities, NGOs make its province's development of a joint future programme. Thirdly, after the social welfare reform, municipalities are left with vitality tasks, business policy tasks and municipal cooperation is needed even within regions. The fourth has something to do with it. Employment matching, access to jobs and the matching of workers in job creation will be a major challenge. This would require such parliamentary preparatory work,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u32	Mr President! As far as sparsely populated rural areas are concerned, there is a parliamentary working group, and I hope that every parliamentary group has examined the infrastructure proposals that this group has put forward. The truth is that a rural area, whose development is significant for the whole of Finland, cannot develop if a bit and a truck are unable to travel. In addition to this, many other ideas have been raised in the parliamentary working group, which may not cost much, but the problem is very often to see whether it is possible, constitutionally speaking, to target some measures specifically on the sparsely populated area which represents 68 % of our territory but only 5.3 % of the population. There may be such positive discrimination, and Minister Vehviläinen set a good example of the possibilities of digitalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u33	Mr President! Finland can probably be divided into at least large cities, regional cities, spending limits municipalities, rural areas close to the city and sparsely populated rural areas, all of which must have their own means of securing their vitality. There's no point in putting them against each other. For example, Mr Mustajärvi spoke here about the concentration that has taken place in the region. It is true that there has been concentration since the 19th century. During the 15 years that we have been in this house, regardless of the color of the government, certain tasks of government have been transferred from regional cities to provincial centres — regardless of the colour of the government we have had. But what is essential is that the availability of labour is secured, because many of the foundations of the Finnish export industry lie in these smaller cities, and therefore the development of its skills and the provision of sufficient staff who commit themselves to be and develop the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u34	Mr President! The aim of this topical debate is to break the tension between rural communities and cities, and that is a good thing. I therefore wonder why Mr Honkonen was so keen to defend the regional reform. In the regions to be set up, it is the elected regional councils that exercise the highest authority, and who will be elected to these provincial councils? There is no need for a psychic to predict that the central cities of the provinces will have a larger representation in the regional councils and smaller municipalities may not have a single representative in the council.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u37	Mr President! We need a different policy in different areas, not a confrontation. We now have a centre-run government, yet politics has been increasing regional inequalities: the postal services are weakening, taxi services are tilting, train services have been shut down, special care has been forced to centralise, district courts closed. These decisions have not been made by Vapaavuori, but by a central government. Mr President! We need a social welfare reform that gives the provinces the power to decide on their own services and their own economy from the point of view of the region's own needs. Unfortunately, however, there will be no real self-government in the government's social welfare model when there is neither the right to tax nor the power to decide on the structure of service production; the market model will also be forced to feed the regions and regions into a self-government organisation in accordance with the customer-producer model. Mr President! Regrettably, it now seems that the most thing left to be the self-government of the future provinces is to cut off services or cry and cut off services. This is not a good regional policy, good government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u38	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! In the UN happiness study Finland is the happiest country in the world, and when you see what the Evening Sanomat said last week, when you look at the 12 municipalities in the happiest country in the world where we are the happiest, then we are already in Ostrobothnia. This is of course a great thing, and I am very proud of this myself — although wolves are now walking there, and it is also a problem, but it is not the main agenda of this debate. Mr President! I was also surprised by this speech by Mr Honkonen, because the situation is now that there is a Prime Minister's portfolio in the centre, that the centre has the power to influence, and now, however, during this term of government, there are centralised activities. The regions where things have gone well have also taken the opportunity to influence their own hospital activities, the district courts are centralised and so on. Why do you speak one?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u39	Mr President! It is good that regional policy, urban policy are being discussed. As Mr Satonen said, we have a number of areas: in fact, this debate has exhausted this metropolitan area, which competes with other metropolises in Europe, not so much at home. Then we have growth centres in the provinces and cities of the second and third classes, regional cities, regions with their own problems. Then there is the countryside, where unfortunately there are quite a lot of such areas, where the population will disappear and services will be reduced, and the prices of the housing, real estate of people living in rural areas will collapse, and this will affect the daily lives of these people. We need a comprehensive policy in which these areas work together. This means infrastructure structures. This means that Finland must link its own network of channels to the European TEN-T network. We must build industrial policy with the strengths of these regions
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u40	Mr. Speaker! There are many important regional programmes under way. After all, we are too much in these things as if in trenches, so that you can see the helmet on the button. This confrontation should be eliminated in order to build a common interest in regional policy, such as a win-win-win-win program, which could then take a long time from now on. I would just like to draw attention to one point, it is an acute problem, it is a critical point, it is a question of skilled labour for our companies across the country and in a variety of cities, even in a very clean rural area. Many export companies in our region, including Ponsse, suffer from the lack of skilled labour, and the situation in vocational training and what could be done there as quickly as possible will become a key role. I therefore ask whether the government intends to take action to resolve this particular problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u41	Mr President! This regional reform also has an important opportunity in terms of cities and less populated regions. When social costs are passed on to the provinces, the possibility for small municipalities to attract and receive, for example, retired citizens will increase due to the fact that social costs go to the province and, for example, the tax revenue from pensions brought by pensioners will come to the municipalities. This is a point of view that has been raised in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and it is also worth making more public, because there is a very clear possibility. My question to the Minister is this: has there been any attention to be paid to this? The second question concerns zoning: Is there some obstacle to zoning up? I understand that the municipalities have a zoning monopoly and can be planned upwards if the municipality wants to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u42	Mr President! Unemployment is a problem affecting Finland as a whole. It is too high in both cities and rural areas. Fortunately, nine different regions of Finland, including Pirkanmaa in Tampere and its spending limits, are currently in the process of experimenting with employment services in different parts of Finland. These employment services have achieved good results so far, even though they have only been running for a little more than six months. Part of the fall in unemployment is certainly about the good spirit of the world economy, but at least I have received good feedback from the unemployed from these services, where they receive good, personal services from municipalities rather than faceless telephone services from TE Centres. The problem, however, is that the experiment is now coming to an end at the end of this year. The regional reform was supposed to start in 2019, but it has been postponed. What is the Minister's position on whether this experiment can be continued for at least another year?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u43	I will give four more speeches and then two minutes to Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u44	Mr President! A very important and timely debate. Now I would like to open up even more to this, what is meant by how regions and regions can develop. It does mean how our higher education in relation to business is targeted across the country. It must be sad to say that we in Satakunta, which has metal processing, the second largest concentration in the chemical industry and the very strong food industry and the forest sector, do not produce any diplomas in these areas at the university of applied sciences. Well, I'm glad we're getting system funding in the robotics area. But I would like to ask the ministers: should we, as a government, be able to define more the location of higher education institutions and higher education units?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u45	Mr President! The key to the development of Finnish society is whether we remain a united nation. At the moment, economic growth is very strongly based on a strong rise in the forest industry, which has generated around itself the metal industry, the chemical industry, transport and so on. The Finnish raw material supply in Finland, which we have at our disposal, is certainly the best in the world, regardless of the direction we look at it. We have clean groundwater, we have forest resources, we have the wealth of rock, we have agriculture. We must remember today the cold fact that we have just read the European study on the purity of food in Europe, that there are traces of antibiotics in almost all meat, that salmonella has a big problem, that there are all kinds of residues of pesticides, but there is no problem in Finland. So we have in our hands all the keys to success when we just have enough consensus to exploit this good for the benefit of the nation as a whole, because now the economy is growing everywhere in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u46	Mr President! Strong cities and a vibrant countryside that sustains clean nature and sustainable natural resources are certainly essential for Finland’s success. Sustainable policies can be pursued in both urban and rural areas, for example through the promotion of circular economy and resource-wise solutions in housing, transport, business and public procurement. More and more Finns would also like to live in the countryside, not in cities. When the regional reform was brought up here, and when clean nature is a prerequisite for food production, both as the population's grip and attraction, as well as for tourism services, it makes sense to point out that, according to the underlying work of the law, the regional reform was in no way intended to change the control of the general interest in environmental matters, which was designed to safeguard the resources of clean nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u47	Mr President! The best regional policy is a policy in which decision-makers give people and businesses in the regions the means of success based on their own strengths in their own regions. When I listened to Mr Honkonen’s speech, in which I thought I was smelling confrontation, I must say that recent decisions — such as district courts, police stations, Savonlinna’s teacher training institute hit South Savo, hospital issues in Vaasa and elsewhere — have not been a great deal in this respect from the regional point of view. I agree that vibrant cities need lively rural areas and vice versa, not confrontation. Let the cities grow. But, Minister, the major cities have expressed concern about their ability to invest. However, investment is the starting point for growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u48	Secretary Lindström, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u49	Mr President! Thank you for a proper, important debate. Here a number of representatives — Mr Kalli, Mr Turunen, Mr Satonen, Mr Kääriäinen and many others — asked what the government is planning to do about the workforce. There's a lot of planning to do. Together with the Minister for Education, we have been given the task of bringing more tools in addition to this conversion training. The extension of conversion training is one of the things that has been discussed. But I've met a lot of actors from the regions where they have an idea. An example of Ostrobothnia is a metal company with a shortage of employees, and they have the idea that they could professionally train everyone for that common need and this would be persuaded through this vocational training reform so that it would also bend to it. What is very important for us is that we do not now sit here and think that this is somehow the opposite, but that we listen to the regions and their needs. This has at least been my starting point, and I believe it is the starting point for the whole government. This is a matter of urgency, and we need rapid response tools to respond to this. But then this big question, how are these differences between regions taken into account here: In this growth service reform we had the goal of finding a model that allows the region and municipalities to cooperate effectively, and such a model was found. It's an alliance model. Pirkanmaa and Tampere have a very good employment experiment, and Mr Savio asked about its follow-up. We've had a really good conversation with Mayor Lyly and the actors in the area. Excellent work has been done there. We have not really disagreed with anything other than the responsibility of organisation. These experiments are not wasted, but they are a good bridge for future pilots that will start in the autumn, and there have already been searches for those pilots, and I have encouraged regions: think about the strengths of their own regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u50	Let us move back to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u51	Mr President! As Mr Henriksson said earlier, Finland is home to the happiest people in the world, and the government's regional policy actions have recently contributed significantly to this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u52	Mr President! It is very good that we here too are discussing regional and urban policy. It is unfortunate in itself that the fact that a seminar on urban policy is being held in Helsinki at the moment is seen as a threat and not an opportunity. I think it is very good that cities are talking to each other and trying to increase cooperation between themselves. For example, land use planning, even though we currently have good MAL agreements, would have a lot to develop. If we are thinking, for example, of the capital region and the metropolitan area, we have here three of the largest cities in the country, where I believe cooperation should continue to be improved, there is absolutely no weakening. Urbanisation is both good and bad, but it is something that will happen in any case. For example, 25 years ago, only 10 to 15 per cent of the world's inhabitants lived in a city of more than one million people, and now this figure is 80 to 85 per cent.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u53	President! Unfortunately, for a long time, our rural policy was almost exclusively agricultural policy. Of course, life in rural areas is much more than just agriculture. Today, everyone realizes that. My real concern is with tourism, which is the world's most rapidly growing industry. It is Finland that has excellent conditions as a country of tourism, not only in Lapland, but also, for example, in the region from which I come. We have unlimited opportunities in nature tourism. But is our intellectual infrastructure in terms of tourism in order? I am referring to the question of whether there is adequate training in order to recruit staff for tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u54	Mr President! We need smart and modern regional policy, but we also need a business policy that highlights the strengths of the regions. Transport infrastructure solutions are of enormous importance to whether the whole country can be regarded as inhabited, and Eastern Finland, for example, is now lagging behind in the financing of transport projects quite clearly. President! Regionalisation policy also has a role to play, and regionalisation policy seems to have suffered quite a decline in the current government. At least there are very few decisions and the implementation of existing decisions is now taken as an example, even though the transfer of Fimea to Kuopio has been painfully difficult. Now the next decision will be taken on the seat of the Court of Justice, and the committee that prepared the matter will be presenting Helsinki. We'll see what happens here. The political will is expressed through actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u55	Mr President! The Finnish economy is now doing well, and even though urban areas are at the heart of growth, growth is actually happening in rural areas. I'm picking up some examples. Already in 2005, the economy grew best in Kymenlaakso and Central Finland. During this year, I can mention, in the regions of Lapland, Kainuu, Central Ostrobothnia, Pirkanmaa and Varsinais-Suomi, the average turnover growth of enterprises has been between 13 and 17 per cent, and in Ostrobothnia, the exports of enterprises are very good – we have the lowest unemployment and highest employment rates in Finland as a whole. If I pick up a few individual examples, I can mention, for example, the Turku Shipyard and Äänekoski bioeconomy plant. And what's the connection? It is that society and the state have been involved in supporting innovation support, logistics
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u56	Mr President! It is good to hear in this Chamber that the time for confrontation is over. It has been in the countryside a long time ago, when you have met cottages, and most of the forest owners in Finland in particular are urban people. It is a concern about how these rural services work there, as well as about this, as Mr Rinne has pointed out, how our capital will last there. The owner of a city cottage has that concern as well as the entrepreneur. The excellent thing is that the regional city programme is now being built, and the most important part of it is the capacity for renewal or regeneration, which I think involves the capital, the education and, in particular, the local knowledge how we catch up with it, and the commitment it makes to these things — especially when growth services come to us, so how do we get the local vitality services to work and everyone involved and especially this funding to become part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u57	Mr President! I come from Turku, Uusikaupunki and Rauma, where, of course, we know about recent history what sudden restructuring means. President! We are now in the opposite situation, where society should find agility without even being aware of whether we are talking about cities or rural areas. Many companies now involved in this positive restructuring work both in the city and in rural areas, especially in view of the extensive subcontracting network which in our case extends to the borders of Eastern Finland. This is about how artificial it is to speak only on one side of this. We need a programme on this issue, and here I publicly salute the ministers Lintilä and Lindström, who have been very constructive in supporting and taking forward the work of liquidator Aho. I hope that in this respect there will also be a follow-up, because this society:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u58	Mr President! I think it is good for a Tampere to say that support for such positive restructuring areas is absolutely necessary, for example in Tampere this T3 project and the third track between Tampere and Helsinki. I would raise this position of second methropol, and it is just as good that there is action in different parts of Finland. It is my concern, Mr President, that this government has often acted in a very centralist manner and that it has been a challenge to understand regional policy in this respect when we talk about rail transport when we talk about the post, when we talk about hospitals, for example, when we talk about district courts or all of these. On the other hand, I can say that the words and actions of politics go across. But, on the whole, the President-in-Office, which I would like to say to Mr Lindström separately, is that this regional employment experiment, as you have said, has worked excellently and I cannot therefore understand that it cannot be continued on that basis. This is a good development, and good results would have been achieved for once. Without these active models of unemployed people, better results will be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u59	Mr President! ‘Country of flats/where the value of homes is zero/must be made to move/removed’. So now migration is not only affecting the countryside but also depleting smaller cities, and the big question is, Minister. Tiilikainen, what happens to these properties, which are emptying in these migration loss municipalities. Indeed, it has been said here that the national product is being produced in the provinces, in Ostrobothnia, for example, and in Pirkanmaa, where skilled labour is needed. It must be provided through education and before all workers are confined to large cities. We absolutely need — support from Mr Viitanen’s point of view — more tracks to and from the third track to Oulu, and also the third roads, the nineties, are important for this whole industry, and broadband is also essential for entrepreneurs in rural and smaller cities. I myself am a member of Pirkanmaa's Entrepreneurs, and this message comes from there all the time that if action is to be taken, then the infrastructure must be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u60	Mr President! Thank you for the discussion initiative, representatives Honkonen and Mäkipää. The vitality of rural areas is part of Finland. Our country would not be such a fine, eccentric country if the whole population were packed into the most attractive growth centres. We need a vibrant countryside, including facilities that produce high-quality and clean domestic food for our shelves. From the point of view of tourism, rural areas are important and provide a unique experience for many tourists, which is good for the income of society through work and tax euros. Finns must continue to have the opportunity to live in rural areas, which means that the state must also take care of the service provision of smaller localities. We must not allow the EU to dictate unfavorable changes to our agricultural and forestry policy either. But at the moment bureaucracy is very strong and it is also a bad thing for rural areas and agriculture. Finland’s interests must be considered yes [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u61	Mr President! There is a lot of talk here that we should not be guilty of this confrontation, and that is exactly what it is, but then at the same time we must recognise that the success of one is not out of the other, but that we are part of this whole. The key to Finland’s economic growth and well-being is to allow different factors to succeed from their own perspective. This applies to the larger cities, to smaller regional centres, as well as to this sparsely populated countryside. And yet I dare to conclude by saying that now, when you look at these engines of our economy, it is seen to a large extent that that development is going to take place more and more, including that movement of people to these growth centres, and supporting their success will certainly support the success of the whole, so at least not here to constrain the growth of cities, but to allow them to grow, because it does radiate to other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u62	Mr. Speaker! There are certainly plenty of different programmes in Finland. However, I think it is important that there should be a common vision of how to develop regional policy on the basis of these programmes. I think that the best regional policy is to support the creation of jobs where natural resources are and where there is still a workforce. There's a lot of work to be done here. Functioning transport networks play a key role. There has been a lot of development of vertical transport networks during this parliamentary term, but it must be remembered that cross-sectoral development of transport networks is also needed. This is extremely important when it comes to Eastern Finland: from there it would be good to transport raw materials and preparations to the ports of Western Finland. I'm sure that's where we've got development in real life. Training here has already been brought up. As an entrepreneur, I know that today education does not meet the needs of the business community, and this is a big challenge if you really want to keep Finland capable. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u63	Mr President! The government's regional policy is well illustrated by the fact that the Government Party's representative in the discussion initiative is acting on behalf of the government to regionalise the state's activities. We know that this has worked well under previous governments. But I would particularly like to talk about the accessibility of the regions. We have very well-functioning MAL contracts in the capital region, building flats, jobs on the tracks. Now these MAL agreements should be made to cover the whole country, so that we have agreements between the state and the regions on how to get this kind of core rail connection across the country. For example, a shortcut could be used to reach Joensuu and Kuopio in three hours. For example, Jyväskylä is one that would be more accessible by making such national plans.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u64	Mr President! Thank you for this discussion initiative and for the government's activity. Really, when we talk about urbanisation, however, metropolising is a little different. When people in Hämeenlinna and Lahti are reduced, it is not about urbanisation, but about metropolistion and the very strong suction of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. District cities: The regional programme is a good thing. They have many strengths, a lot of export industry, because they have an affordable cost level, low-cost housing, well-motivated workforce. That's why New Town has a car factory, which is why Iisalmessa Ponsse is successful, it is built on these strengths. It is therefore important that regional development is built on the strengths of different regions, cities and rural areas. That's how we get the best results.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u65	I will give the floor to Mr Laiho, Mr Salonen and Mrs Talja, and then to Mr Tiilikainen, at the most, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u66	Mr President! Urbanisation is already a fact. However, urban-rural confrontation is unnecessary. Without the promotion and exploitation of the vitality of the metropolitan area and the large cities, our economy and employment will not grow sustainably. In order to secure services for the entire population of the country, maintaining the vitality of cities is of paramount importance. If there is not enough investment in urban areas, the rest of Finland will not be well. This must also be taken into account in the regional and social reform and its financing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u67	Mr President! It is wonderful to say that confrontation is unnecessary. Unfortunately, in practice, however, it often seems to be quite different. There will be no confrontation if the big ones also have the wisdom to take care of the smaller operating conditions. The question is whether this is the case and whether the government is prepared to promote it. As you have heard, the core areas of industrial Finland are the local cities. However, according to the regional report, we know that it is the regions that have been the biggest losers in our country. The concentration of activities has been the most penalised by the local cities. And now it is happening again: power is being centralised with the reform of the province. In fact, it seems that in the future the voices of the local cities will only be heard as a whisper. Why are you?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u68	Mr President! The question may be asked whether the strong self-government of municipalities is a barrier to the joint development of regions. The central objective of the regional reform must therefore be equal treatment of municipalities. Good employment is the basis for the well-being of the regions and parts of them. With the Alliance model of growth services, municipalities, cities and regions can agree on roles in developing the vitality and employment of the regions. So the vitality of the province is at the same time the vitality of its parts. In the production of social services by region, centralised services should be taken into account for the less localised services and then for the local services, which are local services, by region. Social services are employment-rich services and are important drivers for the vitality of municipalities and regional cities. It is for the province to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u69	Minister Tiilikainen, that's right. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u70	Mr President! Representative Jonah Räsänen summed up well that one’s success is not out of the other. And this, in fact, is what the government's urban policy rests on. The Sustainable Urban Development Programme, which is, as it were, an umbrella for all government urban policy, is based on cooperation between cities and surrounding regions, rural areas, and, on the other hand, on the central urban cooperation within urban networks, in line with the EU-UN urban policy guidelines. The key is how sustainable urban development and growth are for people and the environment. It's not so much about the speed of growth. It has then been recognised that cities, through intelligent transport, smart electricity grid and circular economy, are generating a new kind of business opportunity and growth, but on the other hand, we really need to ensure that growth in the country is low-carbon, for example, and the decarbonisation of cities from fossil fuels is an important objective. Social sustainability and health is also essential in sustainable urban development. Affordable housing and adequate recreation areas are at the core. The government will work together with the cities to move this sustainable urban development forward. We have presented this in the Metropolitan Policy Advisory Board, in the urban cooperation network and in the regional cooperation group, received feedback and are developing this five-year programme. In fact, for this confrontation, I could say that Helsinki is a capital that everyone in Finland loves, and as a minister in Helsinki, I can say that the rest of Finland must be equally dear to the people of Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u71	Mr President! The balanced development and consideration of Finland as a whole is an extremely important issue for all of us, and it is good to have a little south-eastern Finnish perspective in this debate as well. There is no point in confrontation between cities and rural areas. Rather, they should be seen as complementary. There are also urban settlements and rural areas within the city, and they complement each other. During this term of government, for example, a great deal has been invested in stopping the debt of repairing the basic routes, a rare amount in the history of Finland, and, secondly, the dismantling of unnecessary standards has been taken forward. And, in fact, there are a great deal of things that have been done in the Ministry of the Environment and the Environment Minister's sector, which now allows people in the region to influence their own affairs. It's extremely important. I would like to raise one more point in this debate: tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u72	Mr President! The speech on behalf of the cities is against no one, and the speech on behalf of the countryside is against no one. Today, I'm talking about the cities themselves. I bring greetings from the cities that are actually gathered at the Helsinki Symposium. Of course, it is a pity that this debate is taking place at exactly the same time and that the Minister had to cancel his participation in the joint debate at Helsinki City Hall, but I will bring you a scientific statement published there. There the facts and statistics prove what many here have said: urbanisation is a mega-trend, not a love issue. And the message in this scientific statement is thus clear that we need an urban policy that takes particular account of the specific characteristics of cities. I myself would consider an acute urban policy assessment of the ongoing administrative mega-projects. I would now like to ask the Minister whether you intend to do so, in other words, to assess regional and social reform from the point of view of cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u73	And before Mr Lintilä, who will be given the floor for 1 to 2 minutes, Mr Pakkanen and Mr Kari will be given the floor, and Mr Lehkä will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u74	Mr President! This debate on regional policy is an important and good debate. I would also like to thank the representatives of Honkonen and Mäkipää for this good opening. In order for us Finns to succeed, we need a good Finland, and in this Minister Tiilikainen very concisely said that we all need each other, cities and rural areas must be useful for both. To be good here in Helsinki, I personally feel that there will be a good workforce in Helsinki, a trained workforce, but there will also be good raw material and the famous good, clean Finnish food. But, on the other hand, in order for the industry that keeps Finland alive to succeed in those areas, it needs good channels, and for that I thank this government very much for having played an important role in basic bus maintenance and in major bus policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u75	Mr President! In the last 20 years, during which I have been allowed to act in politics, I have been chairman of the regional government, chairman of the provincial government and chairman of the Lahti City Council, and I have never felt that I have acted against something in these positions, but on behalf of everyone. Everyone is needed: regions are needed, provinces are needed and cities are needed. However, it is good to remember that cities are growth engines. Undisputedly, cities and urban areas play a huge role in Finland’s growth. That is why, Mr Honkonen, it is understandable in itself that Mayor Vapaavuori and so-called C21 are experiencing genuine pain as to the role of cities in this growth in the future. So let us not contrast, not artificially or effectively, this role in the regional development of municipalities. I hope that the ministers and the government will pay particular attention to this,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u76	Even before the Minister, this is a good one for Mr Henriksson, for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u77	Mr President! Representative Kari spoke wisely. That's how it is. We're all needed. We need strong cities. We need a good, vibrant countryside. We need regions in which we can do well. Above all, we need all the people involved. That is what worries me now when we see what is happening to democracy, especially now that we are entering this regional reform planned by the government, where we are not getting proper self-government in the provinces. I believe that we have such wise decision-makers all over Finland that they would also be very happy if they could decide for themselves what kind of hospital network is, what is being cut where, what kind of decisions are being made in our region. People don't like being patronized and concentrating and believing that the best information is in some ministry in Helsinki. People believe that they can make their own decisions on their own territory.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u78	Minister Lintilä, from anywhere, however, for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u79	Mr President! Thank you for these extensive powers. Thank you for the debate, for the proper debate, for the constructive debate. Regional policy applies just as much to the capital region as to Finland in the regions, because creating the conditions for living and entrepreneurship is the only option or basis for a sustainable economy. Throughout the kingdom we have strengths based either on special expertise or on natural resources. There is tourism in the north, there is a bioeconomy in Central Finland, there is a pharmaceutical industry in Kuopio, for example. We have a world-class battery cluster from Sotkamo to Harjavalta. I believe that the most important thing is to make use of these, because a policy that is strongest in support of the Finnish economy as a whole and of the increase in value added is also best suited to the development of regions. What has been mentioned here several times is a skilled labour force and the problems associated with it. It is definitely a bottleneck of our economic growth that must be resolved. The objective of this government is to increase the employment rate to 72% that this government will achieve. The task of the next government is to bring it to 75, but it requires that we solve two major problems: the capital region, Too large disparities between the very difficult structural unemployment problem in the region of Uusimaa and regional employment too. These two problems need to be solved together, and we will be able to solve that 75% in the next period.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u80	And Minister Leppä, same to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u81	Mr. Speaker! Perhaps, in summary, the best contribution to this debate is that speeches have been used here against confrontation. That's right, together we're building this land. The whole country is needed for that well-being and economic growth, for the development of employment, for the development of well-being, for rural areas, for urban areas, for church villages and for cities, that is quite clear. When we want to develop the bioeconomy, when we want to secure the world's cleanest food production in the future, when we want to take care of our waters, when we want to offer new tourist experiences to increasingly demanding tourists, for all of this we need rural areas, the vitality of rural areas, the infrastructure in place, the telecommunications systems and the infrastructure in place in that regard, there are also services to help. To this end, too, I and the government have set up this parliamentary working group on sparsely populated rural areas, which the President-in-Office has already spoken with merit. It has already come up with the first proposals and proposals on what it could be, what we would do together on this issue. Among other things, it has drawn attention to how our trade services are developing. Those small shops have become more and more important as diverse service providers and dots there. That is why we need to work together to think about what is to be done about this, so that this can be safeguarded, or perhaps what we can do about safety in general, also for people in rural areas. That is where the wolves will be, Mr Östman. Of course it must be safe to live there and try to do everything, and it must be secure, whatever form of policy it takes, it must be absolutely clear. President! Finland only lives best with its full strength, that is obvious.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I have made the following statements in this debate. Let's see if these are enough. That window of time is about to be full. Mr Lindtman, then Mr Kulmuni, Mr Satonen, representatives of Mäkipää and Mr Honkonen, who are signatories to this initiative, and then Minister Vehviläinen, he gets 2 minutes. Representative Mr Tölli has also come to the Chamber, and perhaps he will have the floor before the Minister. — Mr Lindtman, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u83	Mr President! It has also become clear in this debate that transport policy is very much linked to regional policy, including urban policy. Of course, it involves not only this climate issue but also this programme to promote walking and cycling, which has been promoted by the government. It is important in regional policy, and in urban policy in particular, that the government's messages are very clear, we know what we are doing. Now the government presented, Minister Berner presented that, from the beginning of next July, EUR 400 will be supported in Finland for each purchase of an e-bike, [Left: Statement!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u84	Mr President! I would like to expand this perspective in the debate in a slightly more international direction. A few weeks ago, for example, our joint Nordregio research institute rejected a study on regional competitiveness in the Nordic countries. Unfortunately, Finland had tails for the capital — Helsinki was found in 5th place, jumbo of the capitals — and 13 regions of Finland were located in the whole of the Nordic countries. In all the comparisons, we were weak. If you think more broadly, for example, in the UN's urban structures programmes, to which Minister Vehviläinen also referred, you have constantly stressed the importance of balanced regional development, which is the only way to prevent the rise of populism. If you're wondering where Donald Trump or Brexit got his support from, it's the difficult restructuring regions. If we now think of where Finland is drawing its own economic growth, it will leave Lapland's tourism, western coastal ports and industry. It is therefore important to think of Finland as a whole. Cities, regions and rural areas, a wide range of regions, must survive, and that is an important issue for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u85	Mr President! Many have spoken here about the importance of transport, including Mrs Rinne, and many have also commended the efforts made by this government on transport projects and also the future solutions that the parliamentary working group has put forward. I also see it as a very important issue here. Since I am a supporter of freedom of choice, I would like it to go precisely so that as many Finns as possible can choose whether to live in the city centre, in the nearby countryside or in a small town. And for this choice to be genuinely possible it will be possible if these transport connections function well and smoothly enough and if the commuting reduction is kept at a level that allows people to go further — and here I hope that together we will be able to reject the presentations of the Greens in order to reduce the commuting reduction. Finally, on employment, when it comes to services for the long-term unemployed and young unemployed, it must be a local service. It is also an indication of the Pirkanmaa experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u86	Mr President! Years ago, my old supervisor said that remember: your own success comes only through the success of the community. The public debate on this theme has sometimes been disturbed, this confrontation. It reminds me of the old fairy tale of body parts arguing with each other that the head needs other body parts. The result was that the head will not succeed if the rest of the body is not in order, and the same is true in our kingdom: A successful capital needs a successful rest of Finland. Most of the production takes place elsewhere, with central government and head offices. It is in the common interest that we have a successful capital, but without a functioning strong production elsewhere in Finland, we do not have a strong centre either. This is central government and headquarters. Interestingly, many people find this problem of encounters at workplaces surprising. It is often in sparsely populated areas, and the largest area of job growth is not necessarily in Uusimaa,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u87	Even before taking the initiative, Mrs Rinte has a very convincing request to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to make it clear to Mr Satonen that I said that we need a metropolitan policy, a growth centre policy, we need a second-class and third-class urban policy, a regional policy, and then rural policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u96	Mr President! I would like to thank all the speakers. This has been quite fruitful and, of course, we will all be happy that no one talked about this confrontation, but everyone brought their own considerations. I believe that the Finnish economy will then roar from that north Ivalo all the way to Hankonieme. I really am a strong defender of the countryside. I understand that we cannot have all the services we have in Helsinki, for example, but as a municipal decision-maker, we also consider how to obtain that different business structure and, above all, that export yield. That's what's going to make the municipalities rich, too, with this job. Similarly, education is not, of course, as diverse as it is here in the urban area, and we do not need everything. It's safe to live on many occasions, it's clean, it's peaceful, we have community, we take care of each other, but I'm sure this conversation will move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u97	Mr President! Now that this issue of the regional election has come up, according to this logic that has been cultivated here, none of us parliamentarians outside the central cities would have been elected here if this logic, which has emerged here, were correct. And as far as this confrontation is concerned, in my speech I made such a long agreement across government and opposition borders. I would have liked to hear the answers from you, the SDP and the RKP, among other things, whether you are in favour of such an agreement, because it is precisely this form of contractualism and a relaxation of confrontation that is needed. I was very pleased that Minister Vehviläinen raised this bridge agreement in Varsinais-Suomi and the extension of its method or mode of operation as a means of regional policy to the rest of Finland. I believe that such agreements could be concluded between regions and regions and between the state, which would then seek solutions to the problems of transport, education and housing policy, for example, in these different regions. I believe that this type of contractual approach is needed by Finnish regional development and regional policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u98	And now, Minister. I don't know if it's good in a minute, but two minutes is allowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u99	Mr President! Firstly, I believe that this debate has been fruitful and that a common vision has been sought here. And that is what I would like to say: this week, when we have in hand these new economic and employment figures, it must also give us confidence that we can develop the whole country, and we must also trust that we have such skills that create jobs and well-being in this country. I think in that way, when these investment pressures of the big cities came to light, that it is really important that every municipality and city look at that world after 2020. But then I would like to say that each of us understands that this pressure on social welfare costs is shifting to the provinces and will no longer remain in the municipalities. Now that last week The regional farm centre announced this, how much we are going to invest in social services, and we will have about EUR 5 billion in investment for the next few years. Well, they're gonna put government money in them now. We also need to put this social infrastructure in order. Then I would like to emphasise that municipalities and cities will have an enormous role to play in the future and in the future in creating this prosperity and growth and in creating vitality. It's important to me. I know that when municipalities and cities have instruments, they have tax rights, a general industry, they are also able to do so. I think perhaps the best listing in this debate came from Mrs Ihalainen. You were already able to look forward to what is needed in that particular province in order for that province to succeed. And finally, I would like to say that, at the same time as I should have been there at the Helsinki Symposium, that of course I have to prioritize and prioritise the debate in Parliament. My confidence rests on Parliament, and if the Council of Presidents decides that there will be a debate on such a subject at this time and I have the floor here, then I will come to the debate in Parliament. But I think it's pretty obvious that we have to go through this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u100	I would like to point out that the time was decided by the Council of Presidents and the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u101	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 5/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u102	Mr President! This government proposal on three-dimensional properties is not an April Fool’s News, but really this promotes opportunities for a diverse use of properties. So far, the Land Use and Construction Act, the Real Estate Forming Act and the Real Estate Register Act have only dealt with two-dimensional properties, but now that huge building complexes are being created in the country, it has gone into such legislation — that legal amendment has been prepared, and here is the report — that it can be built up by means that it can also be divided into three-dimensional properties. This makes it easier to use real estate, just as this report says, that the same property can be divided into different buildings, even though it is one and the same building. It will facilitate the management of the building. You can imagine, though, that there are ten different operators operating in the same property, and they are independent operators all, and it is much easier to manage such a property, the whole huge complex, when every piece of property is an independent operator, an independent legal object that can be sold out easily without any legal problems. This is this modern world, but it also requires us to develop legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u103	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 2/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-21-ps-26.u104	Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses that this draft law is concerned and that this government proposal is specifically concerned with the provision of insurance, the people who make insurance contributions and therefore represent insurers. It should be borne in mind that the reform and improvement of the law have started from the fact that insurance is a highly international activity and there are different insurance brokers, and this new legislation has specifically created the operating conditions under which insurance is provided through different intermediaries. In a way, this reminds me of the law on real estate agents. There, too, the operator concerned is called upon to exercise excellent care and, above all, professionalism. These insurance intermediaries and ancillary insurance intermediaries shall be registered in the register of insurers maintained by the Financial Supervisory Authority as a guarantee for professional purposes. The requirement for registration here is, among other things, to have sufficient professional qualifications and, above all, a good reputation. In other words, this registration procedure ensures that insurers and insurance brokers are professionally
