ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 May 2018. In the debate, Jani Mäkelä, supported by Laura Huhtasaari, has proposed that the bill be rejected. In the debate, Hanna Sarkkinen, supported by Antero Vartia, has tabled two motions for statements under protest 2. In addition, Jani Mäkelä, supported by Laura Huhtasaari, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives. Annex 2A
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u2	First, we have to vote on the adoption or rejection of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u3	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on the Future and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 3 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, I can give you the answers I have considered in order of one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u5	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Almost all data are spatial data. It is therefore natural, although perhaps somewhat surprising, that the first information policy report is precisely a spatial data policy report. [Second Vice-President TuulaHaatainen : Excuse me, Minister! — I would ask the representatives to hold discussions outside the Chamber. Let's focus on listening. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u8	Let's go to the group talk round.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u9	Madam President! Ten years ago, I was applying to my company for equipment monitoring and precision farming technology from Germany at the trade fair. At that time, only three companies were able to provide spatial data based technology and acted randomly and inaccurately. It's different now. Today I am able to track my company’s equipment to the nearest tens of centimetres from anywhere, for example here in Parliament. This is made possible by the rapid development of technology, good communication connections and more accurate information on the location. In today's society, spatial information is used in a variety of ways. We are offered and use different services on a daily basis based on up-to-date spatial data. A good example of a service based on spatial data is the 112 Suomi service already loaded on over a million phones, which helps people in distress. In the future, location-based information will provide people with new services to facilitate everyday life and new opportunities for growth and employment for companies. The use of spatial data also creates the conditions for more efficient and environmentally friendly activities on both the public and the private side. The rapid development of technology also increases the need to agree on common rules of play in order to ensure the safe use of spatial information. Mr President! The Central Finland Parliament Group considers it important that the responsibilities and roles of public authorities with regard to spatial information are clearly defined by law. We agree that, as a general rule, the information produced by public authorities must be unrestricted, free of charge and transparent in terms of access rights. We must also be prepared to make use of the services and solutions offered by companies. In addition, cooperation and access to spatial information must be ensured. In future, cooperation between the authorities and information systems must function in such a way that the necessary information is communicated only to one single location. According to the report, Finland will have the most advanced and secure spatial information environment in the world in the future. That is a worthy objective. At the same time, however, weaknesses in the use of spatial data must be identified. The threats to technology and information networks are a reality. This also affects Finland’s security. Our legislation must be up-to-date here too. It is particularly important that data relating to an individual person, such as personal data, are not publicly available to everyone. Mr President! The potential for spatial information is expanding.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u10	Madam President! Technological development has led to a reduction in the importance of physical location. People around the world can reach each other in an instant. The distance has lost its meaning in terms of the flow of information. All the information in the world is available to us all via a mobile phone. However, as the importance of physical location decreases, the importance of spatial data expressed by location has increased. Spatial information is important both for companies seeking to facilitate people’s daily lives and for public authorities. Whether it is a matter of trying to reconcile such new types of mobility, such as fire and rescue services, up-to-date and easily accessible spatial information serves both of them. Good access to spatial data creates unlimited opportunities for the creation of different applications and services. Data on buildings, offices, municipalities, nature reserves, transport routes, streets are data collected by public authorities. The way in which this information is collected and passed on by public authorities to private companies and communities and individuals is essential for the future. Today, private operators are also increasingly collecting and using site-bound data. In this respect, the first issues to be addressed are how to ensure that private rights are exercised vis-à-vis companies collecting spatial information and under what conditions the public authorities can disclose the information they collect to private operators. According to the Government Programme entry, the information produced by the public administration must in principle be unrestricted and free of charge. With regard to spatial data, it must be possible to define legal and financial responsibilities. Under what conditions can information collected by public authorities be passed on, and who is responsible for the costs? As regards spatial data, it must be possible to distinguish between the production, maintenance and utilisation of data. Decisions must be made separately for each of them. Mr President! The spatial data is often also about personal data. In this respect, the use and sharing of spatial data must take into account the protection of personal data guaranteed by the Constitution. In addition, national security must be taken into account when making decisions. Not all spatial information is intended to be freely disseminated to the public. It is up to us as legislators to define the principles for defining the information resources and the basic services that are essential to the functioning of society. However, the collection and dissemination of spatial data must take into account the key framework conditions laid down by both the fundamental rights of individuals and national security. The road to the best use of spatial information in the world will be long, but the first step of the journey has now been taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u11	Mr President! Spatial data form part of society's key infrastructure, whose existence is ignored, but on which many services and the competitiveness of several companies are essentially based. In Finland, society plays an important role both in gathering this information and as a guarantor of its accuracy and security, which should not be forgotten. This, too, provides companies with strong value for their tax euros. The pioneering approach to the development of usability of spatial information and the opening up of public data reserves provides our companies with a significant competitive edge and a basis for innovation. If we consider the automation of traffic, for example, it is based on accurate and reliable spatial data. Madam President! The opening of public data reserves started in 2012 when the Land Survey Institute opened its land data data for open use. Minister of Finance Jutta Urpilainen played a key role in promoting the initiative and already stressed at the time that opening up all kinds of information resources is one of the keys to future growth and prosperity. This is the path the Urpian has been leading, and it is a good path for us to continue. We still need a good teamwork between public and private players. The constantly changing management of spatial data requires controlled crowding of data collection. The most important value of this spatial data policy report is that we make policy guidelines on how to use spatial data produced by a wide range of stakeholders in the future in an efficient and safe way and with personal data protection. This will also create the conditions for growth and positive employment development. Madam President! We live strongly in the age of social media, when each of us shares a great deal of different information about ourselves without even understanding it. Public actors here must be a sort of gatekeeper and be able to ensure that data used in services is always safe from the citizens’ point of view. The founder of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg, was in the European Parliament this week in connection with the data leaks from Facebook. When we are discussing a spatial data policy report today, we should also consider the need for a topical debate on the role of social media and the ways in which multinational social media giants collect information about their Finnish users.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u12	Madam President! Geographical information is all information with a location as one of its characteristics. For example, location information includes information on buildings, weather, mobile phone location data and transport routes. In the digital world, the use of spatial data is wide-ranging. It affects each of us in our leisure time and in our work, in our businesses and in the public sector. Using spatial data is familiar to many of us with smartphones. Your own location can be shared through apps and it is easy to navigate in a foreign location when you can see your own location on a map base in almost real time. The spatial data is much more than that. Digitalisation will make spatial data even more important. Self-controlled cars and the MaaS (Movement as a Service) operating model need location data to work. Accurate spatial data is also a prerequisite for new robotics and artificial intelligence services and applications. It is therefore important for us to know what kind of spatial information is needed in society and how the use of spatial data can be promoted. Mr President! The vision of the report is to create a society that makes the best use of spatial data in the world. With the recent Facebook leak, more and more of us are concerned about what information about us is being collected and used for what purposes. When creating the world's most advanced spatial information ecosystem in Finland, it is important to ensure that the protection of personal data and information security are also the most advanced in the world. The EU Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force in a few days' time, will be an important step forward in this work. Mr President! The aim of the report is to oblige all authorities to produce and share spatial data in shared use. When defining access rights to spatial data, it is particularly important to take into account the overall safety of society. Critical spatial data and their importance are important to identify. In principle, the information produced by the Authority is public, but it is also the responsibility of the Authority to assess the risks of the use of the information. The action of the authority must therefore not create a situation which causes a safety deficit for society. Mr President! A secure society provides the basis for individual and business activities. It is good that the report talks about a model of overall safety. By defining the key spatial data reserves for society, by defining the responsibilities and roles of each actor and by specifying the security aspects of spatial data in particular, we are on the right track. This will take overall security and information security seriously and we can work together
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u13	Mr President! This Government Report on Spatial Information Policy aims to implement the Government Programme's objective of developing user-oriented, productivity and performance-oriented digital public services in a single window as a functional whole. Such a function is, inter alia, a joint spatial data platform for the safety authorities, which gives an overview of the situation at any given time. We also welcome the objective of developing business opportunities contained in the report. An excellent example of this is the more efficient use of forest resource information, which is an effective means of increasing forestry practice. On the other hand, such projects should ensure that personal data are only disclosed to the extent necessary. It is also essential that data collection quality standards are uniform for all actors and for the whole country. Mr President! In some respects, the Finnish People's Parliamentary Group is very concerned about the undesirable effects associated with digitalisation and the Government's objectives. One such threat from the worst end is the national satellite positioning system, which enables general use of positioning services, i.e. a system of stalking in relation to the movement of people. The Finnish Parliament Group sees that such reforms will not improve the position of Finnish motorists. The reform ensures that congestion charges will be introduced in the future. This development is strongly opposed by the Finns, both now and in the future. At the same time, account must be taken of the threat of an increase in the scope for outside intervention in the private life of citizens. Finally, the Finnish Parliament Group also wishes to draw attention to the need to reform legislation, at least in part, in order to ensure the objectives set out in the report. In this context, care should be taken not to create the need for new regulation too much. I don't think anyone needs more regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u14	Mr President! The report is a rare document by the current government that one can agree with the main lines. As a general rule, information on geographical locations produced by public authorities must be transparent and easy to find, connect and use. Now it's a piece of information. General maps are drawn up by the Land Survey Institute, sea maps by the Finnish Transport Agency. Geology Research Centre, Natural Resources Centre, Metsäkeskus and environmental and museum authorities produce information on soil, ore deposits, forests, habitats, endangered species, environmental status and loads, and ancient memories. The Finnish Meteorological Institute makes weather forecasts and statistics. The municipalities have information on the station plans, buildings and plots. Statistics Finland provides, for example, the age and income distribution of residents of different postal code regions. Each produces spatial data in its own way, and overlapping work is also done. On the other hand, information on different parts of the country may not be comparable. The starting point of the spatial information policy must be interoperability. The report is an example of how the EU can give impetus to sensible national measures. The INSPIRE directive on environmental spatial information is largely behind the report. In the course of this process, the transparency of information was twisted, among other things. Mr President! The Greens attach great importance to the principle that information produced with public funds is, as a general rule, transparent and free of charge. After all, in many countries the ministries of finance have had the habit of requiring government departments to generate income through the sale of information, but it is much more important to the economy that open, accurate and easy to use spatial information helps companies to develop their activities and also new services. The EU's Galileo satellite positioning is also creating new opportunities. An example of this is MaaS, Mobility as a Service, a transport service that can become an alternative to private car use, when the public transport service can be purchased from door to door without having to pay separately for example for a taxi or a local bus, train and urban bike. At best, this will help mitigate climate change and improve the resource efficiency of society, the rational use of human work and natural resources. Automated traffic requires spatial information up to 10 cents. Spatial information services also enable more effective warning and action in the event of natural disasters. Mr President! When the use of spatial data becomes easier, data protection must also be ensured. Under the EU Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force tomorrow, data which can be combined with a person will be considered as personal data,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u15	Mr President! Many of us use services based on spatial data almost daily. Increasing the use of spatial information is a worthwhile objective and many opportunities remain to be exploited. Spatial data can be used to develop new forms of flexible call and robotic traffic. A constantly evolving map of nature experiences worth visiting can be created through cooperation between citizens. The added reality will give concrete access to planning plans. There's no limit to how to use it. The transparency, usability and privacy of data, on the one hand, and the protection of privacy, on the other hand, are important issues in terms of spatial data and its exploitation. These issues can be found in the report, but the means to implement them remain unclear. As technology improves and the amount of information increases, the possibility of combining information increases. There are significant opportunities here, but also threats to privacy. In terms of security, clear legislation and adequate knowledge and resources are needed for supervision. In accordance with the My Data principle, concrete rules on how to follow your own data and grant permissions are needed. We Finns readily share our information with social media and the food trade bonus card, so we also need to raise awareness and get used to managing our own data. The responsibility of society is to ensure that those who do not know or understand how to take care of their own data are also safe. Mr President! In the Government's report, spatial information is seen primarily as a means of improving the competitiveness of companies. Improving the competitiveness of companies is an important consequence of the use of spatial information, but this cannot be the only objective. The first objective must be better services and a better quality of life for people. The aim must be to use limited natural resources sparingly, to combat climate change and to promote nature conservation, to which spatial data can provide a great deal. Better life and the environment must be the basic objectives to which companies and systems that use spatial information serve and at the same time do business and create growth. If we only go ahead of the economy, without the right kind of regulation, we can, in the worst case scenario, end up using spatial data. Mr President! Spatial data and spatial information systems are largely generated by public organisations and systems. It is amazing how public systems are described in the report as an obstacle to the development of enterprises, even though it is the public spatial data sets that have laid the foundation for many private spatial data innovations. This tumultuous mutilation of public systems would like to get rid of the genuine ecosystem and collaborative thinking of open data and open interfaces. Mr President! There is also a lot of know-how and research in Finnish universities. For example, at the University of Oulu, the geoinformatics research group has studied questions related to health geography and conducted research related to the regional change of the population, the environment and the utilisation of natural resources, which is closely linked to spatial data. The study has also developed models for the use of spatial data to support decision-making. Universities and research institutes should be involved in the future development of the application of spatial data.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u16	Irade fru talman, Madam President! När vi utvecklar den geografiska informationen ska två saker vara i balans. För det första måste den geografiska informationen vaa komitibel och tillgänglig så att den kan unttyjas effectivt. Och för det andra ska datasäkerheten vara på en så ög nivå att skydet av personuppgifter uppfylls. Vi behöver öppna gränssnitt så att våra digitala system korresponderar med varandra. Och auri bör vi satsa mera, för vi har inte råd att släpa effecter. Här är det också oerhört viktigt att satsa på den övergripande säkerhetsmön. När vi utvecklar våra system måste vi beakta att det alltid också finns krafter som skada samhällets infrastruktur.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u17	Mr President! Extensive use of spatial data will be increasingly important in the future, but this development also involves risks that need to be taken into account. Legislation should ensure that spatial data are used in a secure manner and in the interests of the privacy of individuals. Citizens have the right to know what spatial information relating to them is used for and to whom it is transmitted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u18	Madam Speaker! Thank you to the parliamentary groups for their excellent speeches, expert ones, and also for the coherent and common line underlining the need for change, the need for reform and the fact that the world is developing in such a direction that we also need change, and we also need legislation and a legal basis, so that both these objectives and security develop into the vision that I understood that everyone also joined in bringing about the world's most innovative and secure ecosystem of spatial information in Finland. A few withdrawals from here. A very large number of groups raised the need for a clear division of labour and the definition of interfaces — an extremely important issue. Similarly, the security aspects of both personal data and information related to internal security and external security were included in all speeches. Mr Östman's last group statement also raised the global perspective and the global impact, and it is therefore important that these issues are in our own hands as far as they can be. This too should be taken into account. Representatives of private and public data interfaces The paper raised the issue in its own speech. It is a very important definition, as well as what came from the point of view of the representative Pylvä, the newspaper and everyone else, that is, how we create business opportunities through spatial information and create the public basis from which companies can then draw it into their own new service business and thus create jobs and services for us Finns. It is clear what Mr Sarkkinen has said here that there must be clear legislation and also control over it. It is quite obvious, it must be so, but I disagree that the focus in this report would be too much on the business side, on the business side. It comes as we publicly produce this information and then controlled it for business use. That is the point of view and the starting point here, of course. This is where the public operator came up in the Greens' speech by Mr Hassi: a list of the number of places where this information is collected. It is also difficult for the user. It is certainly also difficult for information security, and that is why it is essential for us to be able to combine it. In Swedish, we must also take this into account; it is quite clear. Then, President-in-Office: Controlled information, secure data collection on personal data, was here in the SDP's group statement, in Mr Taimela's speech, in a big role, as well as in the way and the information that multinational companies collect about us Finns and its management. The risk assessment came in Mr Kulmala's speech, and Mr Hakkarainen was also concerned about the national satellite positioning system. We do not want a stakeout system; we want a system that is open, fair, where everyone knows where information comes from, how it is used, where interfaces are clear, and we also need some regulation to make this possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u19	I'm opening a debate at this stage. I would ask those Members who wish to speak for 1 minute to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u20	Madam President! Spatial data will benefit all of us citizens. It helps find as lost dogs as well as grandmas or taxis to find us or we find the desired restaurant, but forest resource information also contributes a lot to our biggest sector of the forest sector. Today we had a seminar on the exploitation of forest information, and it was a pleasure to note that the whole sector was on the same front, wanted to promote the use of forest information, promote digitalisation and also promote the platform economy in this sector. In the future, robotisation and all that forest information will help us to do things more efficiently, more economically and more with regard to nature. It was a surprise to me when the seminary found out that The heart rate does not open its knowledge of valuable natural sites. I think that would help it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u21	Mr President! Three aspects of this efficient and secure use of spatial data: First of all, everything is based on the need to have open data. And like a representative The trout in his speech pointed out that this snowball was launched during the last term of the government, and it is good that it is now being continued. The second point is that we really need common interfaces, common standards. Here is just the point that this obviously requires a new norm. I hope this will not now be the subject of government standards. We see that we have the standards that are needed, and then there are those who are a little weaker, but not all at once. Thirdly, this privacy policy: now that Mr Zuckerberg has been consulted in the European Parliament on this Facebook situation and has failed to answer how to protect third party information, this is something that needs to be considered, because there may be information about people who do not even have a Facebook account, and if this information, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u22	Mr President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, raised this information about forest resources and the information that relates to it, and I personally believe that information collected from public funds must be available to the business community and must produce new business. And especially with regard to forest resources, this cubic.fi has started well, and then the forest trade goes online, so to speak. But I'm gonna ask the minister: How should we view the fact that there may be people in society who abuse this information, as it were, and who are going to pursue their own purposes on the basis of what is meant to benefit society? And if you think that someone has a forest property and suddenly discovers that they are at the centre of a public debate, as if it were in the interests of protection, even though nothing has happened, and that it is, as it were, damaging this property and its owner, how could you, Minister, have thought about whether in these cases:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u23	Mr President! I ask the Minister whether I have understood correctly that this spatial data monitoring and these systems are now going to focus on consumers benefiting from these applications and companies benefiting from this system and then there is this safety side, for example, the Emergency Response Centre can make use of these future safety location data, and that these spatial information systems are not going to be used for stalking people or for tax purposes, for example, when the government has previously considered that cars should be monitored and policed so that they can be taxed according to driving for how much they move? At the end of the day, however, let me admit that, although I am opposed to any such follow-up, it would be an interesting idea to attach such a spatial information device to Foreign Minister Soini, because then Parliament could also know where he is when he is here so rarely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u24	Mr President! In an open society, the data masses behind decisions must be freely accessible to all so that citizens can assess the reasons for and the consequences of decisions. Indeed, as a side effect, the economy has also been shown to benefit when companies are free to make use of common data resources. The importance of information in public decision-making is constantly growing, as are the algorithms used for data analysis. There is a risk that even if the information is open, the algorithms will remain closed. Take, for example, the decision to build the North Metro. This would probably be justified by simulation models of the effects of the metro on traffic and urban structure. If the algorithms of these simulation models were closed, if politicians and citizens could not assess their operation, the decision to build the metro would no longer be transparent and only the programmers of the simulation model could assess its rationale. Therefore, opening public data is not enough,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u25	Madam President! My question to the Minister is the same. When we believe that information produced from public tax resources should be available to companies, the question is: how is the transparency of the data that is used to conduct business still available to other companies, is it still available to other companies? Where is the interface that tax-produced information, which does business, is no longer available to other service providers? In my opinion, it is unreasonable if companies that receive certain data from tax resources are not able to share it. We have had a debate in the Committee on Transport on precisely the need to open data so that it is possible to produce significant new forms of transport service. And now I'm asking the minister how?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u26	Madam President! Jag vill undertryka att det verkligen är viktigt att man får ortsnamnen, addressrna på båda språken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u27	Mr President! It is clear that we need a common national view on the use of spatial data in the future. The report now published for this purpose is an extremely good starting point. In his speech, Mr Eestilä raised the risk to which I also referred in my own group speech. Some weeks ago it was reported that mobile phone taps had been found in the U.S. capital, Washington. The eavesdropping stations, called Stingray devices, mimic mobile cell base stations and fish for mobile phone identification and location information. Stingray equipment is used by intelligence services in different countries, but also by criminals. I ask the Minister: how is the government prepared for this type of risk and security threats?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u28	Madam President! The preparation of this Government's spatial data policy report began in September 2016, almost two years ago. The world has gone a long way in that time and, as has been said here in many speeches, spatial data is being used and used almost everywhere today. But where it is quite the leading development, of course, is the defence equipment industry in the world, and I refer to the speech by Mr Östman here on what sort of monitoring systems the world has and what is being used, and precisely the risks and security will inevitably become the most important issues in terms of spatial data. I therefore ask the Minister the same question as my colleagues have asked: how will this security aspect live in the future when technology is constantly moving forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u29	Mr President! The spatial data policy report is relevant and timely, as too often, as technology develops, legislation does not keep up with this development. A pioneering approach to this issue is important for Finland, but at the same time we must ensure that legislation is up-to-date and protects citizens' rights and the safe use of information. This report is apparently coming to the Committee on the Future for an opinion, and we will mirror this report in Finland's 100 new opportunities report on radical technologies, to which this report has several points of reference. One example of this is the automation of transport, which is one of the key themes in the technology report. That requires sufficient spatial information. I am also looking forward to the debate in the Committee on the Future on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u30	Mr President! It is good that this government continues on the open data line in the footsteps of the previous government. Even when the EU INSPIRE Directive was adopted, the Finnish Ministry of Finance had a second vote on the watch. For example, the Finnish Meteorological Institute was concerned that the Ministry of Finance required the institution to generate revenue through the sale of data, but then the negotiations on the INSPIRE Directive required data transparency. But surely the most difficult thing in practical legislative work is how to resolve the fact that information is generally transparent at the same time and then privacy is guaranteed, and here the good backing is the EU Data Protection Regulation, which will actually come into force tomorrow. I would also stress the importance of political choice. That work was carried out in the European Parliament by the Green German MEP Jan Philipp Albrecht.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u31	Madam President! After all, there are very many positive and good applications to spatial data, and only the sky is practically the limit to how this spatial information can be used for good. In the care of the elderly, for example, to optimize the route, leaving this mobility to a minimum and leaving the care area as far as possible, a very good way. Another important point that has already been raised here is this forest inventory, which provides information about the forest. The same logging machine is able to collect its own data on the forest inventory. Logistics are used to determine the condition of the road system through sensors that can be installed in vehicles. My question to the Minister now is: When this information is collected from different places, from logistics to logistics, how will the individual's security be maintained in this system? How will we also be able to secure the individual’s position in this knowledge gathered by companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u32	Mr President! A well-known forest owner reported that he has received numerous offers from forest buyer candidates based on site data, but not a single offer on issues related to forest protection or diversity. This reflects the fact that forest management still has a lot of untapped potential in terms of environmental protection in terms of what could be done through spatial data, and this should also be addressed in Finland. It is good that this is being used in the forestry economy, but it is also necessary to move forward in this area of nature conservation. Mr President! My question would actually be: how can we promote the use of spatial data in decision-making more and more, especially at municipal level, in the future at provincial level, and why not also at parliamentary level? For example, in service network decisions, ecological urban planning and optimisation of transport services at municipal level there would be a great deal of potential where the use of spatial data would provide cost-effectiveness, better services and emission reductions. But perhaps there is not enough awareness and knowledge, especially at local level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u33	Madam President! That is exactly what Mr Sarkkinen said. There are hardly any contacts from that part of the natural treatment because Syke does not provide this information. I think that we should also take care of this issue in the end. It is quite important for the diversity of forests that these data can then be used in the future, that even the forest owner himself should know what is in his forests. After all, it's an untenable starting point if you're supposed to protect something you don't even know exists. Of course, the protection of privacy is opposed to many things, and it is precisely this data protection legislation that we are considering in committee. I wonder whether, in the case of three Ms, the whole sector should be linked to the same type of sector as it is on the agricultural side. That's where you can define the transfer of information.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u34	Madam President! As has been shown in this debate, one of the sectors benefiting from the development of spatial information is certainly transport. Finland has invested in the digitalisation of transport and the promotion of new services. The development of spatial information is an important tool for promoting these services, whether it be autonomous transport or optimizing the various transport modes, both in terms of economic and environmental impact. As decision-makers, we cannot predict applications, but we can try to create the conditions for creating them. Sharing information openly is one of the cornerstones of this development. That is why I ask the Minister: how will Finland ensure sufficient resources for the development of information resources and, on the other hand, deepen cooperation with public authorities, universities and business in order to develop and exploit them? Otherwise, we will not be able to reap all the benefits that we have thought about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u35	Mr President! Transparency of publicly produced information is very important. From the point of view of many companies and people, a combination of different information resources can provide many new imaginary services, especially for mobility. A lot of good speeches have been made here about what we still need to do in Finland to develop a better future, such as Mr Taimela next door. The City of Espoo shares open data in cooperation with other municipalities in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, and there are many different public actors in Finland who have open data to share. It would certainly be important to have uniform methods and to have good cooperation in research and higher education, among other things. I would like to ask the Minister: how is it thought to promote such joint platforms and cooperation between cities, among other things?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u36	Madam President! The spatial data report is important and relevant. It is especially needed in Finland to identify and locate address information, and the safety authorities — police, fire brigade, ambulances — need this information. This is already at a reasonably good level in Finland, but there is still room for improvement. One good example of this is the Finnish taxi, which has been based for more than 30 years from the safety point of view on this spatial data. Cars have had a so-called safety switch system, and it has always located it when it is in a challenging situation. There has been talk here of making all kinds of information transparent, and that is, of course, an important and good objective, but perhaps the most challenging point in this law is in safeguarding transparency and privacy. There is also the possibility of misuse of this information. Criminals in these matters are generally quite clever, and I think that is something that this report must take into particular consideration during the preparatory phase.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u37	Madam President! This spatial information issue is very good when you think about the forest industry, for example. When a moto goes into the forest and begins to make a hole, it must know whose forest it cuts its tree, so that they do not come from the fault spot. Some of these mistakes have occurred before. But then such a problem, which I have encountered with the police, is to locate prepaid connections and find out the distractions and distractions that come through them. It has been defective in some way so that no precise positioning can be achieved. I have wondered whether there are any solutions to this problem so that they do not go too far under the scope of personal data clearance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u38	Madam President! The spatial information system is certainly very useful for people and will be an opportunity for the future to increase business, among other things. However, it must be borne in mind that it is also a small threat to the privacy of a person in its own right. It opens up the possibility of locating a person at any time. If he happens to have an intelligent cell phone with him, he says the easiest job in the world is for a professional to know where a person goes. And when this artificial intelligence develops, which is now being developed by scientists at their desks, it opens up even greater possibilities for monitoring people’s private lives. In time, while the youths were writing in the journals, the diary was guarded. It was put behind locked doors, and not even parents were allowed to touch it. Now it's all written on Facebook and they want the whole world to read it. In other words, the world has changed a lot, but it is worth remembering that, when these spatial information systems are developed, their benefits will probably be great, but also those disadvantages will be worth paying attention to, because they are also very large.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u39	Madam President! This is an important report, and I hope that, as this work continues in the form of AI and Information Policy reports, attention will be paid there to the algorithm issue raised by the representative of the plant, for example. When we talk about spatial data, many speeches have proved that they have a great deal of potential, but there are also, of course, questions that we need to address in order to safeguard people's right to privacy. On the other hand, we can also create a lot of new business and so on. I would like to make it clear that this is also a supranational issue, which is why we are in favour of promoting solutions at European Union level that are useful to us, such as the Galileo positioning system. We are currently quite dependent on the American GPS system and, of course, it involves its own challenges and questions. I would like to ask the Minister again: have you recently had discussions at EU level on whether there could be any kind of cooperation in spatial information policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u40	Mr President! My repeated and persistent concern, not only with regard to this report but also with regard to this report, is the equality of citizens. This report, too, stresses that the aim is to provide better services to citizens and that spatial information will be in digital, machine-readable form. However, we currently have about a million citizens who are unable, able or able to use digital services. How will their equal services be secured in the future and how will the accessibility and accessibility of digital services be ensured? I hope these things are taken into account well enough from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u41	Madam President! What is important and something to be welcomed is what has been said in the report. It is now recalled that the Committee on Transport and Communications has a set of private road law, where the spatial information is really important, so that it can be done locally as it should, so that every road partner can be reached. But where is the private line? In a way, I repeat my question through Mr Pylvä that when the business through open data becomes possible, for example, in the forest machine that produces the data in insane quantities, is it still to be open? Or if more data is produced in this data mass for a private operator, where is the compensation practice when someone is in business — is it a business for it or just a mere production of information?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u42	Answer to the Minister, is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u43	Madam Speaker! Thank you for your excellent debut. I see that colleagues have a huge amount of information on this issue. There were so many detailed questions here that I cannot answer all the questions, but we will try to provide information when they are discovered. A few comments: If we start with what many of you have asked, that is, where is the limit where the benefits and disadvantages come from: those are the details that will be created when legislation is adopted, we must define where it will go in order to preserve privacy but, on the one hand, the business opportunities, the possibilities for improving services, the improvement of environmental aspects, which was also mentioned in many speeches, can be best taken into account and made available for the benefit of digital opportunities. It's obvious. There's always someone trying to abuse things. Whether it's digital or any manual thing, there's always someone trying to abuse them, and that's why we have to have a chance to reject all of this. That issue of opening algorithms is also such a detail, which must be carefully considered as to how it will be defined, how it will work, what legal basis will be built on it. I do not have an answer at this stage, and that is why it is important, as I said in my actual speech, and I hope that the committees will now be very careful to raise this issue, both these threats and the opportunities, and they will become as clear reports to us as possible, so that further preparation during this government and in the next government will then be possible and we will have a good perspective on these opportunities and risks. An important observation is also the way in which equal services are ensured. That is definitely an important observation in this respect. Then, President, one final point concerning this cooperation, both for municipalities, cities and businesses. So there's information, but it's scattered. It is not compatible, the systems are not compatible, and that is why we need to put them together so that we can answer that these things are in our own hands, that they are not in the hands of those from outside the world, critical, important things for us, important information, important opportunities. That is why we need closer cooperation between public administrations, as is well described in this report, including the public side. It is good to see that all the parliamentary groups also agreed that we have a lot to do here. That's an excellent debut. This will be very useful in the preparation, but I will also look forward to the completion of this report, as all the findings of the committees have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u44	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u45	Mr President! As has been pointed out here in a good debate, this report is very timely and necessary. I personally believe that there will be far more benefits than disadvantages in this area, provided that these potential threats are recognised and everything is done to counter their threats. Two big things about this whole thing are security and security. Firstly, the question is whether safety, such as cybersecurity, has been adequately taken into account: is there a risk that the information will fall into the wrong hands? On the other hand, if you think of security from another perspective, then from the point of view of internal security, spatial data is extremely important, because in the future, in addition to the address itself, more accurate information about the subject and how to get there is better. In addition to security, the important issue — the other important one — is the security of citizens. On page 7, this report states that the vision is that the protection and overall security of personal data will be taken into account in such a way that the use and use of the information does not pose a threat to national security or to individuals. An important question is how to ensure this and what needs for change are involved at both national and EU level and also globally. In his own speech, Mr Sarkkinen made it very clear to me that citizens also need to be better trained to take care of their own information security. It is also up to the citizens to have that responsibility. Essentially, too, every citizen has the right to know what information is being collected about him and what it is being used for, and this information must also be readily accessible to all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u46	Madam President! The spatial information systems are today's present. After all, it all started with military applications at the time when these spy systems were developed and then systems were created to enable the potential neighbor to locate the target as quickly as possible. As far as today's modern spatial information technology is concerned, it is commonplace for all of us in Finland today. By owning a cell phone, you can access the data, even if it's on a map, anywhere, anytime, or by driving a car, the navigator will be unmistakably certain, provided you have the address correctly written that you don't go in the wrong direction. The possibilities are limitless, but in order to function, this spatial information system requires a high-speed broadband network discussed in this Chamber a few days ago throughout Finland, because the information that moves from mobile phones to, for example, the Internet requires that there is a fibre connection between connecting masts. If the fibre connection cannot be extended to the whole country, some Finns will be mercilessly excluded from its rapid spatial information system. And when we look at today's development, it's bound to take us in the direction of artificial intelligence, which means that faster computers are being developed and the systems are playing better and better. But it also requires a high-speed broadband network throughout the country to serve citizens. That is why in this house we must finally and finally realise that we need to get the whole country's fibre network in order. It is not only wireless connections in rural conditions that can survive, and it is also, of course, an absolute necessity for these companies operating within the network, for the various operators involved. For example, if we do not get the fibre network across the country, bank connections and the huge number of companies' information systems will be quite a lot of torsos before this issue is put in order. Another issue that also raises concern is the intelligence law in this house. With our data being monitored very actively at the moment, both by individuals, by companies and also by political decision-makers, the current intelligence law does not allow our information security authorities, such as the protection police, to have anything to do with our Finnish information networks, but foreign scouts will be allowed to make a fuss there as they please. So we have to put this thing in order. Why is it so important? Because of the fact that these data networks can then be exposed to the latest malware and the latest viruses that can be combated. No virus or malware can be turned down until it is revealed what it is. Everyone knows that practically every computer has always had a virus or malware, and at its worst, when you take control of the machine, it is amazed that what is done when the machine acts indirectly as part of another system. This is why we need to get these intelligence laws in order to get this virus thing in a little better shape. For example, the industrial espionage of companies today, through computer networks, is a great success. For a private person, a fire and rescue operation is very important when there is an emergency. When the spatial information system works, the person can be found very easily and can be helped in no time. For example, a person lost in the woods, if he has the 112 app on his phone, can be found securely and quickly. If the situation is difficult, we could use helicopter help, pick-up, and so will we. So that's why this spatial information system is extremely important. My own experience with the GIS was from last summer: When one of the laundry in the summer cottage was ruined, I made a mistake calling one of my acquaintances who happens to be in the service of the survey office, and he said that when he passes next week he will watch it. The exact digital data was found, and the laundry was found within a centimetre. So all our information systems are starting to build on this digital technology, which creates huge opportunities for businesses, but also threats. Privacy is losing. That is why I hope that in these matters the Finnish Parliament will be kept up to date and precisely so that, when the Internet of Things is coming — for example, one of us thinks that it matters now whether I get it on top of the coffee maker at the right time or whether I can't or can't look at the refrigerator and see what goods there are on the Internet — so it will lead us to open an open channel also for those who come to our homes without our knowledge, i.e. different spyware programs. The Internet of Things probably doesn't have a good knowledge of firewalls or other anti-virus programs, so that you should pay attention to them. Madam Speaker! At the end of my speech, I hope that this intelligence law will actually be brought up to date in this country, that we will genuinely catch up with these big viruses and malware, because without it we will be in big trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u47	Madam President! This referral debate has shown that this Government report on spatial information policy should be dealt with in more or less all committees, because there are so many associations in the various committees. First of all, at the moment, companies benefit very fully from the spatial information systems. We have heard here today about the benefits for forestry: information on forests, fellings, pick-up places for timber lots and so on. As far as agriculture is concerned, technological progress is progressing rapidly, and the management of machinery is already very much linked to these spatial information systems. Public authorities’ needs play a very important role in the exploitation of spatial data and already have a wide range of programmes in place to make use of these spatial data. For example, urban planning is one of the most important users of spatial data systems. For the police too, the spatial information systems are extremely important and, as we are well aware, in the resolution of crimes it is absolutely central to this day. Different transport applications are also currently based to a significant extent on spatial data. We are here in Parliament to discuss the issue of social security, and neither will those areas be left unattended in the area of spatial data. Their development will also largely depend on the use of spatial data. In other words, the GIS will increase the efficiency of many sectors. Citizens through smartphones are very much responsible for how they have identified their own devices, their identification. We can put programmes into those devices so that we can make better use of, for example, commercial services, restaurant services, various offers and so on. But, of course, the customers themselves are responsible for them and their access to them. Now that this report goes to committee, it is important that attention be paid then to the vulnerability of these systems and, therefore, to the security issues that inevitably relate to these spatial data issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u48	Madam President! Issues related to spatial data are important, and traffic in particular will be one of those areas in the future where spatial data play a major role. Even today, it is worth remembering that we Finnish people and traffic are monitored every day. Cars are known to move today. Where the drivers are, you know when you have your cell phones in your pocket, but your car already has such a source of information that it collects a huge amount of data today. When you take the car to the service store, you know how much it's been driven, and you can probably locate it, and you know how long it's been on the run, and so on and so on. So the spatial data, this information, is already being collected enormously today. The Intelligence Act has been under discussion here in Parliament, and that too is based on this spatial data many times. I personally feel that it is important for intelligence and information to be available in general. It will be better able to prevent dangerous situations in the future. This kind of information will, in my view, be easier for the authorities in the future and should also be made easier within the framework of this spatial data law. When all the information is open and that information is used by everyone, of course, if the information from the authorities is then collected, it must be free to us users. But then the question is such a challenge that where is the privacy barrier, and I believe that when this report is completed, we will have to think about it from a very large number of points of view. And in this regard, I am certainly not too naive: it is almost impossible to draw the line between open information and privacy, and it is unlikely that an exact definition can be put into it. There has also been talk of preventing abuse here, and it is also important to know that these will be misused. That is quite clear. I feel that in this individual data protection and individual-based knowledge, the only one you can trust is the confidence that this information is being used correctly. It is an almost impossible task for legislators and others by means of legislation to prevent this collected information from ever being misused and against us other people. In that sense, this objective of getting all kinds of information open, as good as it is, also carries the risk that all of that information will then be used by all of us for both good and bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u49	Mr President! Thank you again to the fellow Members, very excellent speeches and reflection on an important subject. This report by the Government on spatial information policy is very good and, as a police background, of course, the perspective of national overall security in the report is pleasing. I myself was in Africa for two years, and I had a GPS device and a solar battery charger for it. In those circumstances, when one habuub, or sandstorm, covers the road, it is a necessity. Of course, it has to be admitted that it was then measured how many kilometres were from the yard to the distant Darfur region. This report has identified development needs and challenges and I very much welcome the fact that it also contains proposals for solutions. As has been demonstrated here in the debate, the threat of misuse of information is in many ways becoming more concrete. It is also possible that legislation would limit the open use of spatial data. The solution to this report is a careful consideration of security issues when developing legislation and defining access rights to information. This is exactly what has already begun to be considered here today. Mr President! Spatial data is used throughout society and there are very good examples of where they are used and how the use of spatial data can be further promoted. In the middle of the protection of personal data and the principle of publicity, I myself have considered an everyday matter, which particularly affects people whose own child or pet has been missing for a while. Often, in those situations, people, parents and relatives really wish that the child — if the mobile phone is not still with the small child or exists — had some kind of chip under the skin to be able to locate immediately where the missing person is. After all, pets already have the microchips they put in, and when found, they can be identified and information about these owners can be found. These kind of GPS tracking devices are not very expensive in my opinion. Of course, you always have to think about the fact that it's a lot of money for poorer people, even when it's a job like that. They can slip conveniently into the child’s pocket or even sew somewhere in the seam. But even there — and I am interested in that subject — the battery life is not so great. Controlling that it is certain to be in force is a matter of its own then. I would also like to thank Minister Leppää for this report, who presented the matter and gave some good answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u50	President! Let me briefly say what has been said here many times. Almost all information is spatial data, and data is property, and when it contains spatial data, that data is more expensive property. If we now look at how the Committee on the Future also said about spatial information in this publication of Finland’s 100 new opportunities, which was published two months ago, then there we have “observation and knowledge” as a part of life. So it wants to say that it is a reliable and credible knowledge of people, things of interest to man. The current state of this matter is that research, news or publications are used to obtain this reliable information, but in the future we will acquire that reliable information through artificial intelligence, crowding and individual means of observation. Of course, deep learning is one of the fastest advanced and most effective technologies. If we look at how artificial intelligence and spatial information are linked together, we get some pretty powerful tools with it. We can see from Google's apps and remember what it can accomplish. If we add spatial information to a person’s personal field of view, there are also these Finnish applications. They are really good already, and at the same time, something else can be added to the field of vision, that is, it is a small device that is right there in front of the eyes. Imaging and positioning have made really good progress in recent years. Light and continuous flying devices have progressed, IoT continues to move forward, added reality and a variety of new types of radars that can provide information and spatial information — even if there are many directions for radar and three-dimensional images. The fastest technologies to promote spatial information are blockchain technologies that can reliably export and store that spatial data, and the past cannot be changed in the block chain, it stays there forever. My data and these data protection settings will then regulate how this information can be used again. If I raise one more point, what might be the key legislative objectives, perhaps the question of what is the data collection obligation for individuals or communities and what is the donation obligation, that is, how can individuals or communities be obliged to release the data to society?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u51	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 6/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u52	Mr President! The tax agreement between Finland and Portugal dates back to 1970. The current tax agreement is in particular contrary to the objectives of Finland's tax treaty policy in relation to the pension, as the tax treaty restricts Finland's right to tax pensions paid from Finland to Portugal. In addition, the current tax agreement limits Finland's tax entitlement to income from the rental and sale of dwellings in Finnish companies. Finland has negotiated a new tax agreement with Portugal, which was signed in November 2016. The agreement was approved by Parliament in December 2016. In Portugal, on the other hand, the new tax treaty has not been submitted to Parliament, so it has not yet entered into force. The purpose of the Government proposal before us is to obtain the consent of Parliament that Finland may terminate the tax agreement with Portugal in 1970. The termination shall be based on Article 30 of the Tax Agreement, which allows the Contracting State to terminate the Agreement on the diplomatic route by means of a notification made at least 6 months before the end of the calendar year. In such cases, the contract shall expire at the beginning of the year following the year of termination. It is intended that the current tax convention ceases to be valid and applied on 1 January 1999. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly Finland should therefore submit its notice of termination to Portugal by the end of June 2018. Mr President! The Committee on Finance considers the procedure proposed by the government to be justified, despite its exceptional nature. Of course, the most desirable thing would be for a new tax agreement negotiated jointly and signed by both countries to be brought into force from 1 January 2019. This would not create any tax-free space between Finland and Portugal. This is still possible if Portugal contributes to the completion of the approval measures and informs Finland by 1 December 2018. The difference between the new tax agreement and the non-tax contract situation is that, with the termination of the contract, the taxes on pensions will be paid to Finland immediately from the beginning of 2019. Instead, according to the new tax treaty, private sector pensions are not taxed in Finland during a three-year transition period if the taxpayer demonstrates that he pays taxes on the pension in question to Portugal. Portugal has amended its tax legislation in 2010 so that a person moving abroad can apply for a so-called non-habital residence tax status, in which case he will not pay taxes in Portugal on his pension income from outside Portugal. If a person does not pay taxes on the pension to Portugal, the tax right will also be transferred to Finland under the new tax treaty without a transitional period. Both the termination and the new tax agreement give Finland the right to tax income from the rental and sale of dwellings in Finnish companies. The report by the Committee on Finance is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u53	Mr President! This is where Mr Kiviranta presented the report by our tax section. I think it can be said that the Finnish measure is full in this respect. The government is starting from it, and this bill assumes that Finland will terminate the tax treaty, which will put an end to a certain tax exemption for pensioners, the wealthier pensioners. I believe that this is a well-founded proposal, even with unanimity on the committee, and I think it is important that there is also a message here that taxes should be paid to the country in which the citizen is and where he actually resides.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u54	Madam President! Now that there are so few of us here, this information does not go very far that the representative Myllykoski greets the government's proposal with great satisfaction and delight. This grotesqueness must be made redundant unless the outcome of the negotiations is achieved, but I think that the report, which has been produced on the basis of a government proposal, is excellent and is still unanimous. This must be carried quickly, and no one must start throwing so to speak on the wheel. If you think about it so morally: those people who have received free education in this country and have earned a pension in Finland with that education — and some of them still, according to my own knowledge, have people who have been in the management positions of the company, and the company has still enjoyed restructuring the company’s debts — then, in gratitude to the Finnish State, they leave to spend their retirement days in Portugal so that they do not even have to pay taxes for it. This government proposal is a very good continuum for tackling the shadow economy during the previous government, and this government has continued to do so. This is a yes, you can say, more than a measure worthy of a parrot mark from this government. In particular, I must say that the report by the Committee on Finance on this point is very well-structured and thorough, so the time has come for this 1970 agreement to be terminated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u55	Mr President! It was nice to listen to Mrs Myllykoski's praises to our country's government, and I was about to shout that she could get that in writing, but that goes to the parliamentary minutes, and these praises are written there. Under the leadership of Minister of Finance Orpo, this has now been done with determination in Finland. This tax agreement, which is now on its way to liquidation, is almost 50 years old, from 1970, i.e. pensions paid from Finland to Portugal, would in all respects be taxed in Finland through this slightly more difficult, slightly longer way. In Portugal, as the section president said, there has been no progress, and now we will proceed along this route of dismissal. I hope that Portugal will continue to take action and that this issue will be resolved through the agreement and through negotiations. This is in accordance with the common sense, it is in accordance with the sense of law and morally right that these taxes should be paid to Finland in these respects too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u56	Mr President! The Finns also support this proposal and are very pleased that for a change the government has also shown a sense of uprightness in tax matters. In principle, if we look at tax evasion in a broader sense, which is in principle a legal tax system, including this legal tax system — as in the case of Portugal, it was precisely the richest who had taken up this possibility of a legal tax system — then now that the government has also introduced a management register in Finland, and knowing that there are insurance envelopes and other ways in which it is usually the richest people who are able to reduce their own taxation, we could also, as a whole, check how to bring the less well-off and middle-incomed people to the level of taxation of these rich people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u57	Madam President! It is really important that this situation, which has been improved in many ways and which is disproportionate, should be brought forward in this way, as it were, through dismissal. It has been well pointed out here in many speeches that when, however, Finnish society gives us all so much from education and maternity clinics — and, for example, the forms of support that have been introduced here for small entrepreneurs, and the like — if this is rewarded in such a way that retirement days are converted to Portugal and it is decided that Finnish society will no longer receive taxes, it does seem really unreasonable to the citizens. In that sense, it is good that this issue has been addressed and that it will finally be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u58	Chairman! Good speeches have already been made here. It is indeed hoped that the Portuguese Ministry of Finance and the Government will be able to make sense of this negotiated agreement. This is a little broader than that. When we are members of the European Union and we have the same money, for example, with Portugal and Spain,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u61	Mr President! Finland has worked well in this situation, where many Finns, who had a lot of wealth, moved to Portugal in the sense that they receive income almost tax-free. In fact, it has happened that large sums of money have been collected free of tax for the pension savings that have been made. Of course, we made a new policy in that we disbanded such an agreement for the first time in the history of Finland, but there are similar cases elsewhere in Europe. Finland has only negotiated this matter with Spain and reached an agreement. This issue has also been negotiated with Portugal in the past and would have been accepted in Finland, but Portugal has been rather slow in reacting and has not responded to the agreement. So here was actually a forced gap to do this because there is always the knowledge that in this way wealth can be tax-free recycled for itself. This was a good decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u62	Mr President! Now that this is indeed the case, by way of exception, with the termination of such an international agreement, perhaps this could give a little impetus to Finland in the future to reconsider or terminate other bad international agreements, such as the Ottawa Convention on anti-personnel landmines or our poor international agreements on asylum policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u66	Mr President! It might be said to Mr Tavio that we will soon be able to have a broad debate here on inheritance taxation when the citizens' initiative comes here — it is not yet in Parliament, but more than 50,000 signatories are in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u69	Mr President! The President of the Tax Section spoke of the fact that this is of no great importance except in principle. But it is in that sense that for a short time the number of those who moved there had risen from 300 to 500, and it was precisely the kind of persons who could evade the tax in that way. Of course, they did not want to continue. Of course, their time is expected, but if they do not react in another country, Finland has opened up such a game that we can denounce agreements between two countries. I do not know how Finland can denounce such big agreements, which involve many countries as a whole, but I suppose there must be a really good reason to do so, and that is an acceptable reason. Except that Portugal has, at least for me and many others, received such feedback from ordinary Finnish pensioners that this should not have happened to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u70	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u71	Madam President! First of all, the background is that it is clear what this bill is about: After all, in Finland some religious associations work in the register of religious communities and then some operate on the basis of the register of associations, so to speak, there are so-called association-based congregations. However, these activities are all the same, but when they operate under different registers, then there are a number of legislative issues that affect their activities, and one is this audit obligation. In other words, the current Act on Religious Freedom provides for situations in which these provisions of the Association Act on Registered Associations are applied mutatis mutandis to this registered religious community. Here, the provisions of Section 38 of the Associations Act apply to the religious community, but, instead, the Freedom of Religion Act does not refer to Article 38a of the Association Act, which provides for an audit of activities. In other words, it would be possible, when the activity of this religious community is small and, could it be said, quite comparable to, for example, a variety of associations, that it might be subject to an audit and that there would be no need for an audit? It may be and I suspect that this is the kind of childhood that has remained in the legislation, since this is in the design phase of Article 38a of the Association Act,when the Association Act was added in 2010,i.e.freedom of religion following the legislative process. The amendment to that Act on Freedom of Religion was not made in that context, so this would be, could say, very like a technical correction, which would, however, have economic significance for these congregations that act as registered religious communities. Indeed, the activity may be very small-scale, so that it would not be necessary for an authorised auditor under the Audit Act to obtain such an audit because of the scale of its activities, but that this audit would be sufficient. But this current situation, which has not been specifically referred to in this paragraph, does, in fact, now require that its auditor be appointed and, in this way, that these bodies which carry out activities of the same type be placed on an unequal footing and then incur extra costs. In that sense, it could be said that it would be important to put these Community forms on the same line in this situation. We are otherwise going to have changes in legislation that will take account of this situation, namely that we have these registered religious communities and then those religious associations in the register of associations. For example, this fund-raising law: we are probably now in the autumn to bring to Parliament a reform of the fund-raising law, which, if adopted here in Parliament, would come into force at the beginning of March 2019. For example, it seeks to take account of the fact that these two different forms of action under different legislation and the different registers would be treated in the same way in the fund-raising law. In that sense, we must hope that this point in the Constitutional Committee will be seen in this very spirit that, when the fund-raising law also starts to do this on the same line, this could also be done with regard to auditing. So it is quite this kind of technical repair, and probably it has remained the legislator's childhood here in the legislation, but this would still have practical significance for these operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u72	Mr President! When we talk about auditing, I woke up immediately because it's important. In principle, I think that an extensive audit obligation is a good thing. Now that borders have been raised at EU level, Finland should not go after them, but we should start by saying that information about different companies and communities is reliable and someone will confirm it by checking it. This representative, Mr Essayah, certainly has a point that must be treated in the same way and that the audit does not necessarily have to be authorized by small associations or by a little larger associations, when the boundaries of the auditor are not exceeded. This is a good point. I can see that Mr Essayah is a lawyer without figures in this context, which is also very specific. I am in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u73	Mr President! Mrs Essayah's initiative must be supported, and it is a good one and it is in this case that we should be dismantled from our associations, or, in this case, from religious communities that are very close to such a heavy regime of this kind, which is certainly pointless in many situations. I myself asked for this intervention because of this other heavy-duty regime, which is targeted at this type of voluntary activity. Whether it is a religious community or a congregation or an organization or an association, for example, this part of the fund-raising process is one that insists on dismantling, relying primarily on the honesty of people and then on the possibility of ex-post checking, as is the case here. If this initiative by Mr Essayah were to be implemented, then even after that, if something were to come out of it, there would of course be an opportunity to launch ex-post checks and possibly even criminal proceedings, that is to say, it will not eliminate the possibility of, for example, dealing with irregularities. But you often see that voluntary work, whether it comes from religion or other voluntary work, puts too much strain on our bureaucracy, and it often prevents a lot of sensible action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u74	Madam President! Thank you for your encouraging contributions. Representative Ala-Nissila, as an authorized auditor, is well aware of this field and really knows it, as is said, for example, on the corporate side, that a good auditor is the best friend of an entrepreneur. This being the case, there is nothing in the audit itself that is something to be removed in any way, but there is indeed a small-scale activity, one might say, in which, however, hiring an authorised auditor for this activity is also a cost issue. And just as Mr Heinonen has said here, in the same way, the obligation to make financial statements is maintained and all documents must be in order in that respect. After all, no obligations are being neglected here, but only this administrative aspect would be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u75	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u76	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The little girl didn't resist an adult man, so the charge of rape was dropped. That is why I am proposing a change to the description of rape in my bill that I submitted in March and which I am presenting today. My initiative complements the previous proposal made by Parliament's women's network, which proposes a change to the fact that rape would no longer require the victim's opposition or the victim's violence or threats, but that the characteristics of rape would be fulfilled if one of them had not consented to sex. In this respect, the label would therefore be translated from the current one. The definition of rape would therefore be primarily linked to a lack of consent. However, with this legislative initiative, which has already been tabled before, there is still a gap for the child to go through. In fact, the Turku Court of Appeal issued a judgment a short time ago, where, according to the court’s judgment, the identity of the rape offence was not fulfilled when there was no evidence of sexual intercourse contrary to the will of a ten - year - old victim. Thus, according to the current law, the identity of rape can be fulfilled, for example, when violence is used or threatened or the victim is in a helpless state. Today, however, the law does not seem to recognise that a child can be, and in fact, in general always is, because of its level of development, in the helpless state of the law in relation to an adult person. After this incident in Turku, Professor of Criminal Law Matti Tolvanen said that if the identity of rape is not met in such a situation, then we must think about changing the law. Mr Tolvanen said that a mere physically superior nature — on the basis of legal literature — should be sufficient to meet the criteria for violence. This is particularly the case in the Turku Court of Appeal, where the victim was a ten-year-old child and a 22-year-old adult male. But a little girl in court didn't resist an adult man enough, so the charge of rape was dropped. That is why I have now taken the corrective initiative, which simply states that a child cannot consent to sex. In fact, this will get us out of a completely absurd debate about whether a ten-year-old, or a child in general, can give consent or not. No, it can't. The evening Sanomat reported some time ago that a total of 158 convictions were handed down under the sexual abuse title the other year, of which only 12 sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. The average length of imprisonment was 1 year and 5 months. The punishments varied according to the actions. In general, we are condemning too low penalties for such crimes. In fact, most of the courts apply the lowest level of the scale from the third. Four out of ten rapes continue to be convicted as conditional sentences, and you may rightly ask whether such a judgment is in line with the general sense of law. Therefore, we should definitely increase the minimum penalty scale so that, even after the first-time evaluation, the sentences will always be absolute prison sentences. We usually have a strict first-time definition of these judgments to reduce them to conditionality. According to the Ministry’s own assessment, unconditional prison sentences are also condemned, especially in cases where the act is a sexual connection but is often considered to be gross sexual abuse of the child. It has a scale of between 1 and 10 years in prison. As Professor of Criminal Law Emerita Terttu Utriainen said, the effects of increasing the maximum penalty — which has now been imposed — in this case are actually rather apparent. It is mainly a matter of principle. We need to take action at the bottom of the criminal convictions scale. Minister of Justice Antti Häkkänen has made some good performances. Among other things, the criminal code now has a new criminal title: aggravated rape of a child. Aggravated rape of a child could be sentenced from 4 to 12 years in the case of a case that satisfies both the characteristics of rape and sexual abuse of a child. Then the sentence will automatically be an absolute prison sentence. That is the minimum penalty scale, therefore, which makes the sentences considerably tougher than they are today, but a similar change is needed for all rape convictions. In fact, the Swedish Government presented: With the 'Too' campaign last December, the inclusion of this lack of consent in the rape law, and we must do so in accordance with the initiative of that women's network, complementing it with the bill I presented today, which I tabled in March. Act No 10/2018, Act on the amendment of Sections 1 and 7 of Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code: “The offences against children are very serious. Sexual crimes against children in particular are particularly reprehensible. Children are rarely able to defend themselves, which is why it is up to society to protect them. Crimes must be tackled with effective and effective regulations. In addition, the criminal code must be fair as a whole. Sexual crimes against children hinder the normal development of the child and may result in life-long trauma. Sexual contact with a child would therefore always be defined as rape, reflecting the particular reprehensibility of the act. In England and Sweden, the provisions on child rape have stated that a child can never consent to sexual intercourse. This has been expressed by the fact that children cannot and cannot give consent to sexual intercourse. In Finland, the age of protection for sex is 16 years, which means that a younger person cannot give a valid consent to sexual intercourse or other sexual activity with an adult. Since a child cannot consent to sex, sexual intercourse with a child is justified always as rape. At the same time, this would send a strong message from the legislator to protect children.”
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u77	Mr President! Since we are so in agreement with Mr Heinonen on this basis, I have wondered why Mr Heinonen took this initiative when a year ago the Finns of Finland have already taken the same initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u80	Mr President! Indeed, there is a bill by Mrs Heinonen to tighten up and clarify the legislation on rape offences in relation to minors. Regrettably, many decisions taken by the courts in cases of violence and sexual offences have often deviated from the general public's sense of justice. As Mrs Heinonen said in her presentation, Finns have been disturbed, among other things, by the decision taken by the Supreme Court in May not to grant an appeal in the event of a man who had sexual intercourse with a 10-year-old child being convicted in the District and Court Court of Justice instead of rape only for gross sexual abuse of a child and, according to the grounds of these judgments, the child could not be considered to have objected to sexual intercourse. This is strongly contrary to normal reason and public sense of justice. Mr President! I believe that such a strange interpretation of the law must change quickly, and so Mr Heinonen is on the right track. On the same occasion, however, I would like to remind you, as Mr Tavio did, that already in 2016, the Finns of Peru have taken a much similar initiative in which such crimes would be convicted as rapes, as I believe they should be, and at the same time they could be subject to tougher penalties. According to many legal scholars too, legislation and penal practices must be tightened up, as is evident from our recent bill and explanatory statement. Unfortunately, the government has still not taken action on this issue, although children in particular need not only the protection of parents but also the protection of the legislator. In addition to clarifying the label, there is also a need for a clear increase in the minimum levels of penalties. Just lifting the maximums won't do much good. Mr President! The following entry has been made in the Government Programme: ‘The government improves the victimship status of crime in the criminal process by developing legislation. Ensure that penalties for offences are fair in relation to the reprehensibility of the act. Review of first-time provisions, the level of punishment for violent offences and serious sexual offences against children.’ Mr President! This entry in the Government Programme is very clear, and in this context I call on the government to take very prompt and prompt steps to ensure the physical integrity of all Finns by means of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u81	Mr President! The Finns of Peru have particularly promoted these hardenings of judgments, because it is quite clear that the judgments have not been correct, that is, the reprehensibility of actions in relation to judgments. It has been discussed for a long time, and I do not understand why it has been so extremely difficult simply to raise the lower minima of the scale. However, I welcome the fact that the penalty for rape of a child is now between 4 and 12 years. We are now moving in the right direction, but in far too small steps, far too small steps, but that is the way to go. I remember when I was an exchange student in the United States and a pedophile was caught there, his sentence was 43 years and there was still a discussion in the village that was too little to get away with. Such a gross act against a child is actually one of the worst things that can be done to a small child, so if we cannot give a proper judgment on it, then we do not consider it to be very bad. I would now like to comment mainly on this general debate and on the fact that the Finns have been promoting this issue, because a just state means the right to the victim, the right to the children, and the example that we want to protect our children. Legislation is always a message of how we feel about these acts. I myself have also proposed the online register that is in the United States. It has not led to any lynching mood, as is often said. But it seems that we are more concerned with the legal protection of criminals, so that instead of now, criminals will be put on a stake, that this is not the time for the criminal to get into trouble, even if we should put the child at the heart of the matter. The child’s right always takes precedence over the adult’s right or the criminal’s. Now you have, Mr Heinonen, your own Minister of Justice, so raise — you still have time to — raise now, for goodness sakes, in those rapes the minimum level of punishment. After that, we can continue from now on, but do it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u82	Mr President! The bill is, of course, on the level of thought and in principle to be supported, and I, like many other previous speakers, wonder how this clear matter has not progressed here in Parliament despite the many popular legislative initiatives that have been taken in the past. In this matter, my own attention is drawn to the debate that we legislators should shepherd the judiciary on this issue of the length and absoluteity of judgments. What is this problem with the dignity of our country’s legal scholars, when these gross acts, according to the general sense of justice, are not judged at the top of the penalty scale, but precisely at the lower end? Does it really not find the ability to make sense and justice without having to be forced into it by legislation and by raising the lower limits?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u83	Mr President! The matter is so important and serious that I would not be so enthusiastic about this pecking of the Finns. But of course, Mr Huhtasaari, you cannot fail to say that the Finns of Finland had the Minister of Justice's portfolio for nearly two years. You'd have had a good time as a basic Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u84	Madam President! I would also have said to that speaker, Mr Tavio, that there is no point in pecking about who is the first to become active in this matter. Surely, however, the most important thing for all of us in this Chamber is this goal. Similarly, I agree with Mr Heinonen that for two years Mr Lindström was the Minister of Justice and hid behind these explanations as to whether the people's sense of justice corresponded to different punishments, but unfortunately nothing happened. In this case, I must say that as the mother and lawyer of a 9-year-old daughter, this decision broke my heart. The Supreme Court rejected this appeal for sexual exploitation of a 10-year-old girl. You can say that this age is supposed to be playing with dolls and My Little Pony and not being subjected to such harsh acts. Thus, this decision of the Turku Court of Appeal, according to which sexual intercourse with a 10-year-old was not rape, remained permanent. I do think that the judiciary and the Supreme Court would also have expected and needed a preliminary ruling on whether a 10-year-old would be considered capable of expressing his will in such a case. I still have a bill with the same content this evening, following this initiative by Mrs Heinonen, to be discussed in this Chamber, and I hope, of course, that this debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u85	Madam President! Mr Heinonen's bill is very good and timely. It is truly inconceivable that rape of a child can be dealt with by extenuating factors and a small sentence. A child’s involvement in general should be the most reprehensible crime in the Criminal Code. Why this is the case in Finland today, we in Parliament also have to look in a little mirror. According to the tripartite doctrine of power, Parliament will make laws and independent courts will then distribute judgments, and, as we know, the Constitution states that all public activities must be based on law and that the law must be strictly observed. In other words, to the legislator, I would like to say hello at the same time. Fortunately, Mr Heinonen has been actively involved in this matter, and I hope that this law will now be provided for in such a way that such serious crimes against children — these are such terrible crimes — should, of course, be governed by such a law that the sentence that comes out of it will be so severe that it itself would already have a deterrent effect on these factors, which may even have been considered at some point. The most important thing in this matter is that Parliament is now acting swiftly and accepting this amendment to the penal code so that this amendment can be brought into force as soon as possible, that such terrible cases no longer occur, that the Supreme Court gives a liberating judgment and that the child has not clearly declared itself against this event. Yes, the argument in itself is appalling. When you read one of those things, you're really gonna get a night's sleep. Parliament must act in this matter and regulate this matter by means that if any person commits such an act, it will receive the most severe sentence that can be imposed on the law in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u86	Mr President! Now there are good representatives here in the Chamber, such that I actually feel that we are on the same page with them. In that sense, therefore, the intention is not to peck maliciously, but merely to express the fact that since the presentation of the Finns of Peruvian origin, which was previously made, was better, in that sense this presentation may be a little unnecessary. On the other hand, it is a good thing that this is discussed and repeated. There has been a lot of semantics in this Article formulation, in this debate and in this, which is why these changes are now being proposed and planned in the Ministry of Justice, and this in itself would lead to a four-month prison sentence for rape of a child in Finland. Nor does it take particularly good account of border cases. If you consider what these are — and there are quite a few of them — these fined acts, for example, a situation where 18-year-olds have sexual relations with 15-year-olds or 17-year-olds have sexual relations with 15-year-olds. To date, border cases where the threshold for convictions is considered to be exceeded and the characterisation is met have been subject to a fine. This wording by Mr Heinonen would make them acceptable with a four-month prison sentence. Well, of course, if you disagree, I am happy to hear the arguments. Then there was the talk that now the Minister of Justice of the Coalition, Mr Häkkänen, is promoting these hardenings of sexual crimes, and that is indeed what we welcome with joy, if that is the case. There has been at least talk about it and there is, of course, talk about the world, but there are still no specific proposals on the table. There have not yet been any government proposals, and there is no real clarity as to whether these proposals will have concrete effects, in other words, on what was going on after that debate on the spending limits. In that sense, indeed, as Mr Savio said earlier, we are waiting for the government's proposals and the formulations to see what they are, and now I really hope that the Assembly representatives will support and press the Minister to make them really effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u87	Mr President! The rapporteur, Mr Tavio, was very good at pointing out the shortcomings in the proposal, but it is the committee's job to formulate it. If we have a common will that we want to be blackmailed and that we want to be able to do so in a way that the sentences are hardening overall and justice is being done, then we can also dig up Mr Tavio's old proposal, and I am sure this will work together. Mr Heinonen, nothing, I am happy to discuss this issue, because there is a reason why the former Finnish ministers are blue ministers: the difference in values was so big, clearly. They were silent partners of the Board of Directors at the time and are still, and it does show up and affected those events during the summer. We would have expected more work from our ministers and the promotion of the Finnish base of values, but now they are blue. In that sense, when this public sense of justice was made, I could have told them for free how to raise them up, and it would not have been necessary for such expensive explanations, which, however, came to the taxpayer to pay and what was quite foolish. In the government it was agreed that this kind of public sense of justice would be carried out, and that is why this was delayed. It was the wrong decision for the whole government. We could have agreed together to roll up our sleeves and go to work. But now I hope, whether it be the ministers of the coalition or the whole government, that this is now being taken forward. There's no excuse not to take this forward. Now we are doing it together, and Mr Ojala-Niemela quite well took the view that since this is where everyone wants this matter to be dealt with... This is such a thing that we should not act in such a way that our hearts are broken in this Chamber, but that we should drive in such a way that no one's heart is broken, that this society is not such a society that breaks the hearts of mothers and children, but this society is just and we can proudly stand behind the law that is just.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u88	Mr President! I did expect you, Mr Huhtasaari, to deny three times that you even know the former Minister of Justice, Lindström, but I do remember very well how, at the time, in this Chamber, you praised the fact that the Minister of Justice is now putting this inquiry into motion. I thought it was all right: looking at the whole and looking at what could be done. And now we have the attorney general Antti Häkkänen, who has taken action and the perpetrators. Here I would like to raise one point which has given me some feedback: whether I am now making all young people, for example, in this age group, criminals if they have sex, for example, in the relationship of young people. No, I'm not. In other words, there is no interference with this restriction provision — it would continue to remain normal — where it is clearly stated that ‘the use of child sex as a good use’,in this case rape or any other, ‘there would be no violation of the right to sexual self-determination of the object and no difference exists between theparties and their mental and physical maturity’. So this is what remains the same, which means that there is no crime of two young people having sexual intercourse, but instead this bill that I have tabled addresses such cases, for example, where a girl is 14 years old and a man is 19 years old. They wouldn't have a chance. It would, of course, be this way, as stated in previous judicial decisions, that such a difference in age would be, for example, not to mention when she was 10 years old and was forced to lie down by a 22-year-old man, then the situation is quite clear. But I wanted to bring it up now, so this legislative change does not, of course, make all normal relationships between young people criminal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u89	Mr President! In time, when we had the red - green forces in power, including the Minister of Justice, I have been reminded of the central view of the red - green judicial policy that prison does not cure anyone. Well, fortunately, it has now turned out that the exception is sexual offenders. In their case, across party boundaries, including the red-green side, we are prepared to tighten up and toughen the penalties. So although the starting point and the central slogan has been that prison does not cure anyone, it is good that it has now also been discovered in the Red Greens that there is one criminal group, or sexual offenders, where sentences should be hardened, because apparently they will then be cured. We can have a very long and thorough debate on what the purpose of the punishment is and what it is and so on, but I personally think it is very good that Mrs Heinonen has taken this initiative in law, that the women's network in Parliament has been active in these matters and, in this way, I understand that this debate has also been the subject of the Finnish Parliament Group. Although speaking of a public sense of justice is somewhat questionable, it is quite clear, among other things, in the light of recent opinion polls that it is generally and rightly considered that, especially in sexual and violent crimes, our line of punishment is too low. This activity by Mr Heinonen and others I have mentioned is good, but perhaps even more important is that we now have Mr Häkkänen, as Minister of Justice, who has made a strong stand in favour of tougher penalties for sexual and violent crimes, and just like Mr Tavio, I look forward to practical action. On the other hand, I know that there is a tradition in the Ministry of Justice that all legislative projects are being prepared for a very long and thorough period of time, which of course relates to the specific requirement of vigilance in criminal policy and criminal law. In any case, I expect Mr Häkkkäs to take action on this matter and on certain other matters he has spoken about, such as the reimbursement of the conversion penalty for the fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u90	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has just corrected what seemed to be a somewhat grouchy misunderstanding with regard to this legislative initiative. Representative Heinonen’s bill does not contain and does not mean that if a normal relationship between young people ends up in sex, the parent of the other party could prosecute or bring it up, because then it would no longer be a matter for the young person if the parent took it to the police. In these cases, it is not a crime of the plaintiff, but it is automatically taken forward by the authorities. This was a good clarification that this is not what this is about. But to Mr Huhtasaari, if you take the time to listen: children and mothers have hearts, but I can say that we fathers also have hearts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u91	Mr President! That's right. That is the case, Mrs Myllykoski, and I noticed that it came from the heart. Elephant doesn't lie. But before the rooster sings three times, if Mr Heinonen did not now put words in the mouth of another representative, when we still have a common goal that we want to have a fairer Finland. I have never said that I do not know the Blue Minister, but I have said that the Blue Ministers were never the perpetrators at any point. I hope the Minister of the Coalition is the author. Mr Zyskowicz said that Minister Häkkänen intends to bring this issue to the end. Now I also expect Mr Heinonen to see to it that I can trust Mr Heinonen, when he has taken a legislative initiative, that this matter will now be corrected during this parliamentary term. We need action in front of Finnish children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u92	Mr President! I think that Mr Zyskowicz has already answered a little of the question I raised in my previous speech about the value base problem in this country's judicial system and its ability to judge the people in accordance with their sense of justice. I also think that the red-greening of decades and the activities of various democratic associations of lawyers there will do a great deal of damage, and now we are going to have to correct that by filling in the legislation. Again, I agree with Mr Zyskowicz that initiative in these matters is not a bad thing. Even though some representatives here may do so to raise their own attention value, the matter is still important and right. And I, too, am now expecting action from the Minister of Justice instead of speaking. We now want proposals on these matters to Parliament on top of these promises.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u93	Mr Heinonen, and then I understand that Mrs Myllykoski wishes to speak. — Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u94	Mr President! I was already thinking of thanking you, as a rule, for this good and constructive referral. There is a common desire to obtain tougher penalties for sexual offenders and child rapists, specifically to make the law clearer, to remove this margin of interpretation. Here I have before me, for example, a newspaper clipping that says that a 26-year-old man was sentenced to 8 months' conditional imprisonment for sexual abuse of a child, and in this case, when my bill is hopefully adopted, this person too would have been convicted of rape. This young girl could not have given consent to sexual intercourse to a man so much older than herself or to others when she was 14 years old. Mr President! I hope that this bill will take a big step forward, and I have already had a debate on this today with Mr Antti Häkkänen, the Minister of Justice of the United States, and we will continue to work to ensure that our criminal policies and penal practices will be more consistent with the general sense of justice in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u95	Mr President! I do not usually wish to speak on political sides, but, Mr Mäkelä, I would like to make it clear to the Minutes that you accused the previous red-green government of favouring rapists — if that is the case with your speech — and that, with its long-term influence, we are in this situation, which we are now correcting. I find it rather unwise and politically somewhat immoral for you to start blaming some of the people, while legislation is being taken forward together here in Parliament. As far as this kind of legislation is concerned, when I think there has been a very unanimous debate in this Chamber about how children's rights should be developed, it seems strange to sit here as if the accused were sitting here, as if I were one of the perpetrators, when my party was in the previous government, that we would have been promoting children's rights in such a turbulent way. Mr Zyskowicz left here, and I do not want to interfere with the work of the Minister for Justice of the previous government. However, I can say that the length of prison sentences does not cure a person, but if good action there can make it possible for the person who committed the crime to have his own health and become socially viable, it can improve. Certainly no one here has now been claiming that in these offenders the length of prison sentences would have a healing effect, but it is a question of people feeling that these sentences are too short-term in relation to the human suffering and committing of the crime that happens in those very cases when a child aged 10 or under 10 is subjected to sexual violence, i.e. being raped by an adult person.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u96	Mr President! Let me be a little more specific about what Mrs Myllykoski has just said: That is not what I said, but I was talking about how the courts interpret and apply penalties in these crimes from the lower end of the scale instead of applying the whole scale. If a representative: Myllykoski has started in Parliament in 2011, after all, he does not have much to do with this. This is about the active influence of decades and the decomposition of the value base that has taken place over time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u97	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u98	Mr President! Citizens are now being granted more citizenship than ever before and, at the same time, the birth rate of the population is falling. Politicians in power have decided to maintain population growth artificially by means of immigration. This leads to a decrease in the relative proportion of Finns and an increase in the relative proportion of the foreign-language population. If we allow the proportion of the Finnish population to decrease and the proportion of the foreign population to increase, then we also allow the growth of foreign cultures in Finland. These cultures are not always what we would like them to be. With these cultures will also be the growth of foreign power in our country. Ultimately, as a result of the decline in the Finnish population, Finnish values are weakened. Citizenship policy has been neglected in the public debate, although it is a very important part of the mechanisms of the current type of immigration. A foreigner who has received citizenship can easily bring his or her family members to Finland. In most statistics, a foreigner who has received citizenship becomes Finnish, after which the monitoring of the immigrant population becomes difficult. Nor can a foreign citizen be expelled from Finland, even if he is guilty of what kind of crimes. True Finns see that Finland must ensure in its citizenship policy that a foreigner can only gain Finnish citizenship deservedly. The conditions for obtaining citizenship must not be too broad, as is unfortunately the case at the moment. Mr President! The bill under discussion proposes to tighten the conditions for obtaining Finnish citizenship by raising the general requirement for residence time when applying for Finnish citizenship to 10 years. Today, the standard residence time requirement is 5 years and only 4 years for those who have received asylum. The Finnish line is generous with many other European countries. In Austria, citizenship can only be applied for after 10 years of residence. In Denmark, the standard residence time requirement is 9 years, in Germany 8 years and in Norway 7 years. In addition, there are many developed countries outside Europe, such as Asia, where citizenship has been made much more difficult than in Finland. In Finland, an applicant for citizenship is considered to have lived in a country for a sufficient period of time if the last five years of continuous residence in Finland have been completed without interruption or in the case of an recipient of international protection for 4 years. This is also sufficient if the applicant has lived in Finland for a total of 7 years after the age of 15. This latter is referred to as the collected period of residence. The current legislative initiative proposes a change in both the period of continuous residence and the period of residence collected. At the same time, it is proposed to abolish the essential exceptions from the Citizenship Act to the general housing requirement and thus make the ten-year residence requirement a very strong rule. Under the current law, it is not justified that a foreigner moving to Finland after work is in a worse position than an asylum seeker. The residence time requirement for a person who has arrived in Finland because of his job is 5 years, while for a person who has received asylum, 4 years. We must restore Finnish citizenship to its value and prevent too easy access to citizenship. In the old days, the acquisition of citizenship was also such a rare honour in Finland that citizenship was granted by the President of the Republic with his own signature. Today, citizenship is distributed on a conveyor belt. Finnish citizenship is now being granted more than ever in the history of our 100-year-old country. In recent years, citizenship has typically been granted on an annual basis between 8,000 and 9,000. More recently, the number has risen to 10,000. The number of people receiving citizenship began to grow strongly 20 years ago, and a new growth spurt was seen in the early part of this decade. The growth of those who have received citizenship is, of course, partly explained by the global growth of European migration, but of course this alone is not enough to explain in any way. Immigration is not an inevitable force of nature in which the nation state is incapacitated and powerless. Immigration must be influenced by political decisions. That is our job in Parliament: to make a responsible immigration policy that will last, a responsible immigration policy, so that our country, Finland, will also remain for future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u100	Mr President! From the outset, I want to make clear what Finnish citizenship is and what it is not. The acquisition of Finnish citizenship is not a fundamental right for a foreigner, it is not a human right for a foreigner, but the acquisition of Finnish citizenship is a privilege for a foreigner. In this world of open borders, we cannot be naive. Finnish citizenship would be a privilege, a direct lottery victory for billions of people in the world. This is because Finland is one of the best countries in the world to live by objective indicators. When a person acquires Finnish citizenship, he or she is granted all rights, except the right to the office of President of the Republic, who has been a native citizen for decades, who may have worked and paid taxes on Finland for his or her entire life. He is also given the right to vote and to stand in all general elections, the right to social security, which some people today also want to give to illegal residents. At present, citizenship cannot be withdrawn for any reason, not even for dual citizens, even though this has been considered. The granting of citizenship is therefore an extremely powerful legal act with major implications and obligations for our country. That is why it must be taken seriously and, in particular, more seriously. On these grounds, any proposal to tighten the conditions for obtaining citizenship is welcome. The minimum level that I think needs to be reached is that we do not have any easier access to citizenship than the analogue countries, namely Northern Europe and the Nordic countries. We simply cannot afford such a pull factor. So this bill on a ten-year housing requirement would solve one part of this problem and it is self-evidently to be supported. This is a good start, and much more is needed. I would like to include demands for language skills, jobs and other integration to be updated to meet today's requirements. Mr President! It cannot be acceptable that a Finnish citizen should not be able to live in Finland without continuous help, integration and interpretation. Such a person should not be granted citizenship. I also question the dual nationality of the current practice. Double citizenship should not be granted without a separate valid basis. Anyone who wants to commit to Finland by taking Finnish citizenship does not, in my view, in principle need another country's citizenship. We have seen practical problems, for example with regard to the duty of loyalty, which has even led to reflection on the bans on dual citizens. I cannot understand the basis for maintaining such a system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u101	Mr President! There are clear reasons and a genuine need for this amendment to the Citizenship Act under consideration. In other parts of Europe, much longer periods of residence are required before it is possible to apply for citizenship. As Mr Tavio pointed out earlier in his presentation, in Austria, for example, the residence time requirement is 10 years and in Denmark 9 years, while in Finland the period of residence required to obtain citizenship is normally that 5 years. However, only 4 years of residence are required for beneficiaries of international protection. It must be understood that this law on citizenship, which is more lax than other European countries, is a clear attraction for Finland to immigration. Mr President! I personally see that Finnish citizenship granted to immigrants must be a prize for successful integration. In other words, citizenship must be earned. The applicant for citizenship must be able to prove that he is integrated into our society. Citizenship must not be an advance gift to try to attract immigrants to integration. Today, unfortunately, citizenship is often granted on the basis of a prior gift principle. The current requirement for too short a period of residence should also increase unjustified citizenship applications, as a significant part of the current applications for citizenship are rejected. This is also a cost issue. Indeed, the bill to tighten up the housing conditions of Mr Tavio is excellent and to be welcomed. This is the first step in the right direction. In the future, it would be justified to open a debate on other problems related to the criteria for granting citizenship. The criteria for granting citizenship should also be tightened up in other ways. For example, only the requirement for language skills at a satisfactory level is too modest. There should also be more debate on the problems of dual citizenship. Mr President! We must demand a genuine commitment from immigrants and applicants for citizenship to Finnish society, its laws, customs, standards, culture and language. Citizenship must be a reward for successful integration and the internalisation of Finnish society's operating practices. Finnish citizenship must not be granted by accident to a person who has serious or repeated crimes or who is not of good repute in any other way. It is important that citizenship should only be given to a law-abiding and reputable person, because it is extremely difficult today to withdraw citizenship afterwards. It could therefore be justified to consider whether citizenship should be strongly conditional in future, so to speak, so that it could be taken away from a foreigner who has acquired citizenship if necessary. It is also noteworthy that the acquisition of citizenship facilitates family reunification, as a Finnish citizen is not required to make a living when applying for family reunification. This is also a cost issue, as current practice enables a gateway to economically burdened immigration in Finland. Mr President! It would be important for the criteria for granting citizenship to be modelled on other European countries and initially to tighten the conditions for obtaining citizenship, at least in terms of residence time, at the same level as other responsible European countries. I believe that the ten-year residence requirement set out in the initiative is very well founded, and I warmly support this initiative by Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u102	Mr President! I listened and was quite moved when representatives Tavio, Mäkelä and Immonen spoke about Finnishism. It reflected how much they appreciate this country, the people who have built this country, and it is expressed in a way that appreciates being a Finnish citizen and a Finnish citizen. The value base is so good. Thank you, the Finns of Finland! In fact, when I looked at the list, no one else here has asked to speak but the Finns of Peru. So now it has been proved again that we have the Finns and then we have the others. We also have a two-party system in Finland, as far as political opinions are concerned. In other parts of the world, such as Switzerland, you must have lived in the country for 12 years before you can apply for citizenship, and then the city will vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u105	Mr President! So the House now has an excellent legislative initiative by Mr Tavio in order to tighten up the conditions for obtaining citizenship. If this bill were implemented, the conditions for obtaining citizenship would be tightened by raising the general requirement for residence time when applying for Finnish citizenship from 5 to 10 years. Mr President! The conditions for obtaining Finnish citizenship must not be less favourable than in other similar European countries. In relation to our control countries, the current relatively short requirement for residence time as a condition for obtaining citizenship is definitely one of the major factors of attraction for immigration. However, the conditions for obtaining citizenship need to be tightened in other respects, for example as regards requirements for employment and language skills. The observation made above by Mr Immonen that people receiving citizenship must not have a criminal background is also very important from the point of view of Finland's internal security alone. Mr President! As can be seen from the explanatory memorandum of Mr Tavio's bill, the Citizenship Act was amended a few years ago to shorten the general requirement of continuous residence as a condition of citizenship from 6 to 5. In the same context, the requirement for so-called "collected living time" was reduced from 8 to 7 years. Indeed, the recent changes in the Aliens Act led to a marked increase in the number of citizenship applications the following year, and this increase has continued. It should also be noted that around 80% of decisions taken each year, or even more than that, have been positive for the applicant. On the basis of these statistics, it is quite easy to estimate that the conditions for obtaining citizenship have been relaxed far too much. Mr President! As has already been well demonstrated in previous speeches, the Finns of Peru defend Finnishism and the honorable traditions of our country. We have therefore been calling for a responsible immigration policy for a long time. Unfortunately, we have not received much support from other parties, neither in the government nor in the opposition. According to the views of Finns, the current loose citizenship law with short housing requirements is not long enough in many cases to integrate people who come to Finland from abroad into the culture and customs of our country. It is therefore quite appropriate to tighten up the conditions for granting citizenship as proposed by Mr Tavio in his legislative initiative. This issue is particularly important, especially as the flows of asylum seekers and migrants in Europe are constantly increasing. Mr President! Like many other representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, I have signed the Tavio bill and I hope that the initiative will be properly and successfully dealt with in committee and approved by Parliament's plenary session in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u106	Mr President! One day the MP would certainly have been interested in the debate on Finnish citizenship, but unfortunately, as we can see, the Chamber is quite empty, even though Parliament now has normal working hours and I believe there are representatives in the house. But only the Finns of Peru want to have a discussion on this matter. Indeed, as Mr Huhtasaari strongly pointed out in his speech, it seems that only the Finns of Peru are today vigorously for the Finnish people and Finns and are their guardians here in Parliament. Citizenship must be an achievement — an achievement a foreigner deserves through successful integration into society. The demand for comprehensive and long-term integration therefore encourages the people concerned to work towards their own integration. It requires effort to integrate and learn a language if you know that citizenship cannot be obtained quickly and easily. In view of Finland’s population and the low birth rate of the population, the annual number of applications for citizenship accepted in Finland is significant for Finland’s population structure. The total fertility rate measured at birth was at the lowest ever level in Finland last year. Finland's population is growing, but that growth is due to immigration, which means that the population is growing quite artificially. At this rate, the relative share of Finns will decrease until they remain a minority, as they will soon be visiting Turku in the Varissuo district. The representative Mäkelä made a good point about the rights of citizenship, that the acquisition of citizenship also entitles him to participate in elections and to vote in national, national elections. In Europe, it will also be possible to see Islamic parties in the political arena of European countries in the future. Representative Immonen, you made an excellent point that under the current law, a person who has received citizenship can bring foreign family members to Finland without a livelihood. We Finns, on the other hand, have been pushing for closer family reunification in the government, and there was a slight tightening but unfortunately not complete, even though that was the intention in the first place. It is also an important aspect that the present legislative initiative is also linked to the fight against crime. During the first years of his residence in Finland, a foreigner may commit crimes involving guilt only later on when citizenship has already been granted. This also contributes to the extension of the residence time requirement. A person who has moved to the country after 10 years is already much more known than after the current four years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u107	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u108	Mr President! This evening the same type of bill by Mrs Heinonen was already being discussed. We have the same goal, the means a little different. This relates to a case that attracted a lot of attention last year's spring, in which the prosecutor applied to a 22-year-old man for a conviction not only for aggravated child abuse but also for aggravated rape. However, the Supreme Court ruled that sexual intercourse with a 10-year-old was not rape. The bill therefore concerns the amendment of Article 1 of Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code. Further clarifications are proposed to link the use of the victim's mental immaturity to the rape mark more clearly. In addition, limited changes are introduced to highlight the importance of the victim’s own qualified will-forming when assessing the fulfillment of the sign. In its current form, the sentence states that rape is also condemned by someone who has sexual intercourse with one another by taking advantage of the fact that one person is unable to defend himself or to form or express his will because of unconsciousness, illness, disability, fear or other helpless state. The set of criteria has led to difficult boundaries in relation to the exploitation of the immaturity of a young child. A child of sufficient young age cannot be considered capable of forming his will for sexual activity so that he or she can give his or her consent in a qualified manner. However, this has not generally been regarded in the case-law as any other helplessness for the purpose of criminalisation in force, which means that the court has had to assess the consent of young children, even young children, as a factor in the fulfilment of the mark. For this reason, an indication of mental immaturity is included in the article as one of the elements of the incompetence of the characteristic referred to in the paragraph or the expression of it. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify that taking advantage of the mental development level of the victim’s young age can in itself make the act rape. In these cases, the characteristics of rape would be met on the basis of three criteria. First of all, mental immaturity would be required. Secondly, mental immaturity should be such that the victim is therefore incapable of validly forming or expressing his will or defending himself. Thirdly, it would be required to have sexual intercourse with the victim by taking advantage of this condition. Mental immaturity would not be tied to any particular age; it would be possible for the court to assess the matter. The assessment of mental immaturity can be influenced, among other things, by the significantly older age of the victim or other authority status, which contributes to the victim’s ability to form his own will. However, when the sign requires that the victim, because of that immaturity of mind, is unable to form or express his will or defend himself, the immaturity must be significant. This would be the case in most cases with pre-murdered children. As with the forms of helplessness already mentioned in the current law, the code of conduct would be fulfilled through the use of mental immaturity. This would mean that the perpetrator must be considered to have understood the victim’s helplessness and that the perpetrator has taken advantage of this helplessness and the victim’s subordinate position. In addition to these changes, it is proposed to add to the criterion of the formation and expression of the will of paragraph 2 a requirement for the validity of this will formation. The aim of this is to emphasise that, when assessing the fulfilment of the criteria, it is precisely the individual's factual prerequisites to form and express his will freely in the situation. In this way, consideration must be given to the actual circumstances of the victim. It is also proposed to amend the order in which the article sets out the formation of will, the expression of will and self-defence. It is emphasised that the key to the identity of rape is the will of the target of the act and its formation. The expression of will or self-defence as an expression of will is therefore the result of this will, and the absence of external expressions of will does not automatically preclude the fulfilment of the criteria of criminalisation. On this basis, I propose to amend Article 1 of Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code. Legal scholars have also seen that legislation is not in order in this respect. There are problems both in the interpretation of the law and in the current criminal code. The laws have been slightly amended here and there, so the law has become difficult to interpret. Professor Tolvanen said, among other things, that the focus should be on whether each party is capable of expressing or forming a will, and according to his view, which I personally agree with, a person under the age of 10 is not capable of expressing whether or not he wants to have sex. If this punishment had gone differently, the sentence of aggravated rape would have extended the sentence by one year or two.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u109	Mr President! First of all, we must thank Mr Ojala-Niemela for this very good and detailed argument as to why this bill is here in Parliament. There is not always going to be a review of the texts that are involved in the bill, but this is what I read. Now that we have already talked about another, I have to say that this is the complementary part that should normally be in these matters, so thorough and good analysis and preparation have been used in what is the basis for the legislative initiative. This form of will is precisely the one thing that should be taken for granted. When it comes to rape, it goes beyond being of adult age, in situations where that person is not able to form his own will, no matter what age group. If we have a situation where man is not able to judge his own will form, it should be brought into this. At this point I would be very pleased if this Article 1 of Chapter 20 of the Law were to apply. This is exactly the kind of thing you'd get. But in general today's debates: I would like to see that, while we are still talking about the length of sentences, the Parliament now sees — even the red-green opposition — that the length of sentences improves the sentenced, so we should take into account how, in this legislative drafting and in this form of crime, we can at the same time move forward with the improvement of the victims of crime. In other words, it is lacking in this evening's debate, how we produce it and who is responsible for replacing it, and this should be borne by the perpetrator of the crime, that the liability for repairing this broken person is the responsibility of the offender. I would like that debate to take place, perhaps not tonight, but somewhere else.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-23-ps-54.u110	Mr President! I am very grateful to Mr Ojala-Niemelä for having taken these matters up for debate today. It is good that this is being discussed a lot, several times, and I hope that we will also have certain legislative changes here, from this very chapter of the Penal Code to the end, so that we can really tighten up the penalties. It is precisely for children that it should now be possible to change it. I myself have submitted a bill this spring to amend Chapter 20, Section 7 of the Criminal Code. My proposal was to amend Rule 7 rape of a child, that is, rape of a child, would no longer be sexual abuse of a child or any gross abuse of a child, but would indeed be directly discussed about the rape of a child. The problem, then, would be whether such gross sexual abuse of a child will become a punishment. So if there is more than two years of imprisonment, then it must always be condemned as an absolute prison sentence. That is why, in my own initiative, I proposed that, if the offence is also a serious offence as a whole, the offender must be sentenced to a minimum of 2 years and 6 months and no more than 10 years for the rape of the child. So I said here that the punishment would always be more than two and a half years, that is, two and a half years, when it would always be an absolute absolute judgment and then there would be no such pleas of relief, which would have led to the subsequent conviction of a conditional sentence, which no one can accept, because a child under the age of 10 in particular cannot know what this is all about. Yes, we adults must have our own responsibilities in dealing with matters and also in making legislation in accordance with them.
