ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u2	Let's start grouping. Social Democratic Parliament Group, represented by Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u3	Mr President! The home and services of over a million people are located in the capital region. This week a historic joint council meeting between the four cities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area was held. Councillors representing more than one million people in the region said that the reform of social security should not be accepted in the form proposed by the government, as it would, among other things, jeopardise people's services. It has become clear in Parliament's deliberations that all the other concerns raised by the cities are coming to fruition: the objectives of reform are not being achieved, inequalities are increasing, services are being fragmented and they are being cut because the funding is not sufficient. Mr Government, more than half of the representatives of the government parties voted against the government proposal on Tuesday in the joint council of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. Mr deputising for the Prime Minister, how does the government intend to take account of the common message of the capital region to the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u4	Mr President! Of course, it must be taken very seriously that there is concern, but in the same breath I would like to say that I believe that these concerns, these fears, which have been expressed and, in my opinion, even fomented around this social reform, and particularly in the capital region. I think they're oversized. All the solutions that have been put forward by the various parties in view have been based on the fact that the organisation of social and health services is being decoupled from the municipal base, i.e. in the capital region too, in all models, as I understand it, in the Social Democrats model, this would happen. We need a solution that covers the whole country, and we must ensure, as a government and a parliament, that social and health services can be provided throughout Finland. Here in the populous and rich region, in the capital region, it would certainly be possible to continue with the current system, but we need to take care of Finland as a whole. That is why we have tailored this solution, on which a number of experts, important experts, also believe that this model can make progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u6	Mr President! The Government parties have a total of 98 representatives in the councils of the four cities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. More than half of them, 55, are opposed to the adoption of the government's proposal for social welfare. As a result, more than half of the elected representatives of the government parties in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area believe that the reform of social security should not be accepted as proposed by the government. And the rest of the delegates from the government parties believe that changes should be made in order to move the bill forward. Yesterday, however, Under-Secretary of State Päivi Nerg announced that it was no longer possible to modify the social and regional reform on this schedule, and the government was also informed yesterday that ‘the reform will be carried out as a matter of priority in the big cities’. Mr Orpo, do you think it is?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u7	Mr President! We have also received a lot of communication here from Uusimaa and Helsinki. We will listen to those messages, and, for example, in the spending limits debate, we took these messages into account and took into account a statement stating that changes in the need for services should be better prepared for the 2020 funding and also look at what these changes cost of change is. At the same time, however, I would like to say that the elected representatives in this Chamber, not only from the constituency of Helsinki but also from the constituency of Uusimaa, are representatives of the entire Finnish people. They are responsible for legislation for the whole of Finland, and this social and regional solution, which we have just to decide here, is a national solution. And that is precisely because, at the end of the last parliamentary term, the Constitutional Committee laid down the conditions on which we must make a national decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u8	Mr President! Parliament is in a very demanding situation, because we are dealing with the reform of the century, and a great deal of hope has been put on this reform. Yes, the most important thing is that we can reduce welfare inequalities and increase people’s health, improve access to a doctor and treatment, ensure that no one is left behind. That is why Parliament is very much a guardian. We are all expected to do the work that the Constitution guarantees. So, in practice, Parliament is now in the hands of a reform of social welfare and taste, and we are working very hard all the time to ensure that this reform in this House is properly dealt with. I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will be able to find some peace. What do you think of this wish, government?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u9	Mr President! We will give all the committees peace of work, and I hope that, in a peaceful manner and in accordance with the good traditions of Parliament, the committees will deal with this and hear experts — who have been asked and consulted hundreds of them. So Parliament takes up the time that Parliament needs. But on the other hand, this is a major reform and it must also be brought out of this Parliament within a reasonable period of time. Mr Kiuru raised very well the very issues of why the reform of the social economy is being carried out. That underlying reason was, above all, that people have not been able to get to a doctor in Finland. They haven't been admitted. They've been in line. In this regard, we have read examples of Helsinki in recent days, for example, of very long queues and difficulties in accessing health centres that do not work. We have made this reform because we know that in the future costs will increase at a huge rate if nothing is done. If we don't reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u10	Mr President! Future county decision-makers are facing a tough spot. Everyone estimates that the regional economy will be in stalemate as soon as the provinces start, and this will cause serious concern. It has now been decided that money should be put into the management of the subscriber-producer model, rather than money being put into the growing need for services. For example, the number of cancers is estimated to increase over the 2020s to 2030s for those over 75 in a quarter — that is to say, the number of cancers. It is also estimated that costs will rise by 1.7% as a result of the ageing of the population. If these cannot be answered because the economy is already at a disadvantage, this necessarily means cuts or increases in customer charges. Minister, would it not be fair to say that these savings are being made?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u11	Mr President! Currently, several hundred different actors in Finland are responsible for social welfare and health services with public funds, and public funds will continue to be used to provide services. The only difference is that the current model will move on to a single model of responsibility. The examples you have mentioned, Mr Salonen, are precisely the reasons why the reform is being carried out. My own concern throughout this journey has mainly been about how we will strengthen the basic services and the identification of all the problems you have mentioned in good time. The current system of special care, which has been able to pass on its own tracks and send invoices to the home of its patients, has not been conducive to strengthening effective and timely intervention. That is why this reform is precisely needed, in order to strengthen the organisers. The scarcity of money and common funds has nothing to do with this reform, but with the ageing population, which we have promised to deal with properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u12	Mr President! The Minister has just mentioned that we have promised to take care of the elderly properly. Personally, I get a lot of feedback that not everyone wants to stay home as long as possible. It's a good phrase when a person wants it. But none of us can end the subjective experience of an elderly person. If the old man wants to go to an institution, we'll have to arrange that place. And this is the kind of thing that we must not speak as the truth that all people want to stay at home as long as they can, because it is only partly true. How will the government respond to this? Then, according to experts, the saving potential of social security expenditure in freedom of choice is zero. Why do you insist on this freedom of choice when there is no savings there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u13	Mr President! To the second part of your question: Freedom of choice is a major operational change as part of a system in which, for example, the services of the elderly you mentioned, both at home and, for example, in enhanced service housing, will certainly become more of a strength in the future, in terms of quality and belonging to people's own voice and thus impact and quality in terms of what kind of services will be produced for the elderly in the future. As regards the question of whether everything will be taken care of at home: Of course, we will continue to have service housing, improved service housing and old-age homes. But, yes, I dare say from here that I think it is the right direction for the institution, as we understand it as a place where there is no individual room or any experience of home property, to be a permanent form of living for no one, not even an elderly person. There's a lot of options between home and facility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u14	Madam President! Of course, we all share concerns about how to reduce health inequalities, but serious is the situation in which experts say that the funding model chosen by the government will work in such a way that social centres have a strong interest in transferring expensive patients to the provinces. Experts also say that municipalities will have no interest in promoting the health and well-being of the population, because it is not reflected in any form in the funding of municipalities. Experts also say that cooperation between services, this integration, will weaken the current situation. In the last period, it was calculated that if a well-integrated service model in the Eksote region, in the South Karelia region, had been extended to the whole country, with savings of EUR 2.6 billion. But now the government is breaking up integration, or is weakening it from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u15	Let's all stay in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u16	Mr President! I'll do my best. — Your question, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, was threefold. The responsibilities of well-being and health promotion to municipalities are statutory, and, for example, as city decision-makers themselves, I think that everything that a city or a municipality decides on for its residents must be based on the pursuit of the greatest possible well-being and things that affect people's well-being and happiness, on the periphery of the conditions that build people's lives, for example, in housing or leisure services. Your second question was about freedom of choice and the compensation for it. They have also been discussed here in Question Time on several occasions. The replacement model is not simple. We can see that from a neighbouring country, there are a number of variations in Sweden as well. Finland starts with a model based on a strong basis on a listed customer and patient, and cream peeling can be avoided in this respect. As far as integration is concerned, in my view, most Finns
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u17	Mr President! War reform is the most important reform of this Parliament. The problems and challenges of the current system are growing. A forward-looking reform is needed to secure services. The reform has been being prepared for years, even here since last spring. There are very different opinions, including from the capital region, where, however, the council of all three cities had different opinions and was voted on. Experts have been consulted since last spring. Sometimes you have to finish the job and get it done yourself. The regions are already ready for implementation, and I would like to ask the ministers if they could remind them now what the timetable would then be for implementation in the regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u18	Mr President! The representative did hit it when he referred to the work done there in the provinces, including what has been done there over the past year and a half. From there, there is only one message to this house from the county preparers: finally, complete. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u19	Madam President! I have already withdrawn my speech because it was already asked here, but now that I have the floor at such a good time, I will use it. I am happy to hear an assessment from the Minister of how much is being said about this uprising of urban areas and large cities, how can you see whether you can compromise in some ways so that the big cities are able to participate in this process so that we, in Nikkila, can safely be involved in this and at full power, even though there will certainly be more political decision-makers in the county council from Pori. Is this guidance such that municipalities in the periphery of urban areas will not have to be alarmed about it? And then, will you be able to secure for the large cities their already good conditions for providing social and health services?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u20	Mr President! Thank you for the good question. According to my own assessment, which is also supported by the fact that the future provinces have been evaluated, we have very large differences both between regions and between municipalities. It is not always said that those practices in the largest central city would be the best for the patient or for the customer — and they are not always the most efficient, cheapest and rationally organised. Indeed, the idea of the province is precisely that it is possible to pick out the best practices for the user of the services in the area around it, the area the size of its own region. As far as the role of large cities is concerned, I have been very pleased that the largest cities in Finland have given many of their talents and their input, the work of social workers and managers, to prepare their future region. For example, I have no concern about the future tasks of Uusimaa and the performance of the province, especially because there is a huge pool of experts here who have made all their contribution to creating a new province that could start in 2020,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u21	Let's stay in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u22	Mr President! In the regions, work is very advanced on how social and regional reform really need to be done. Hundreds of them are a good example of it, there has been a lot of work and we are really far along. This same message comes from several other provinces. I'm a little concerned that such big statements that this is bad and this could change and fall and so on, stop the good work that is done in the provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u23	Mr President! First of all, it is precisely today in Satakunta, Pori, that there are officials from all eight ministries making this interaction and also watching together how we move forward in Satakunta. In fact, undersecretary Päivi Nerg goes through all the provinces with this group, and that is very important because we also need information on how in practice the laws are being taken forward there. And I dare to say in this context that I also think that the changers who, overall, are full-time in the whole country in some 700 different provinces, as real large-scale, cross-cutting experts, will judge what the practical implementation of this legislation will be in their region. This is the kind of interaction we need. And as I said a moment ago, there is the expectation that we will also be able to make decisions here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u24	Mr President, värderade talman! Is it really the case that the capital region has woken up too late when we, the cities here, have made dozens of statements on this reform, which has criticised a number of different points, but those points have just not been taken into account in this bill? For example, cities have raised a number of issues which, as a result of the reform, jeopardise their operation and, as a result of this rapid implementation, also the safety of patients. The democratic deficit in Uusimaa will be considerable. One regional councillor will represent 17,000 inhabitants in Uusimaa, while in Central Ostrobothnia, for example, only a little over 1,000 inhabitants will be present. Minister, has there been a miscalculation or what is the purpose of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u25	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that for almost a year, from the end of 2015, until the end of 2016, the four cities in the capital region had the opportunity to make separate decisions, and this was done on the social side, but it was stated in the preparation of the civil servants and constitutional scholars that it was not in accordance with the Constitution — there were not sufficient grounds for making a separate municipal assembly model in particular in the war. But then to this question of democracy. I can tell the representative that I have also thought a lot about it for the whole of Uusimaa. This is a really big province overall, and it has sometimes been flashed that it should be divided in two. But then if this were divided, the province, which has its own joint responsibility for organising, would then be represented by the representatives of the constituencies as their own constituencies. That is why I think it is better for the county governors to represent the whole province and take care of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u26	Mr President! Now that we are actually improving primary health care, the primary health care closest to the people,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u27	Mr President! This question inspires my own reflection and in that respect encourages all of you MPs to familiarize themselves with the objective expert assessment carried out under the leadership of the National Institute for Health and Welfare in every single area of Finland. All 18 provinces have been reviewed and evaluated in terms of current basic services, special services, demographic structure and also in terms of how cost-effective services can be organised today. According to that assessment, among other things, Uusimaa — one of the most powerful critics of the reform by the cities of the capital region — is the healthiest, youngest and best performing population in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u28	Three parliamentary groups also had the issue of social and health care reform. Let us take the floor of their representatives. — First representative, Mr Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u29	Madam President! I would urge Minister Saarikko, and in particular Minister Orpo, to take a look at the very critical opinion of the Committee on Finance today on Social Affairs and Health on the issue of the war — or rather, if you would be able to get to grips with the common position of the opposition unanimously. The committee is very concerned about the uncertainties, risks, financial consequences and effects contained in the social security solution, and the forecasts that normally relate to major reforms, estimates, despite the request, have not been received in months. Yesterday, after the committee had already had its first debate on the report, your own Secretary of State, the Secretary of State, sent a long paper which tried to turn the black white into white, but also stated that freedom of choice did not include cost-saving potential or potential savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u30	Mr President! Mr Uotila, you have now misunderstood this freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u33	The Finnish Parliament Group also had a question on the subject. — Mr Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u34	Madam President! Mr Orpo, you embraced the world with what you have just said. I'm asking you: Freedom of choice is not equally suitable for all categories of customers. “For example, there is evidence that the freedom of choice system is What's this sentence about? It's from the Freedom of Choice bill on page 155. Whoever wrote this sentence left a small message. And it is wonderful that we Finns have dug it for you from there, so that you too will remember and know it. You are looking for a $3 billion saving in the war, and now the latest news has come that freedom of choice brings zero savings. Where are you going to get those savings for the elderly and the elderly? How does a low-income elderly person choose and receive its future service when customer fees rise? The customer voucher is...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u35	Mr President! It is quite true that the proposal has assessed very carefully and openly the various effects of freedom of choice. It has also been examined that freedom of choice does not, in the first place, become a part of all social services, contrary to what could be deduced from this debate. Secondly, there can also be no choice, which is also part of the choice. Third, there is an obligation, specific articles, to support the choice of people who are, for one reason or another, disadvantaged or disabled. With regard to this whole and the possibility to choose, this debate forgets that the choice does not always take place between a private and a public service provider, but can also be made between public service providers in different parts of the social services. And all of this is closely linked to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u36	The Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party would also like to ask a question about this. — Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u37	Mr President! Members of Parliament will have to compare which is the lower risk: in many ways, acceptance of inadequate social and regional reform and subsequent revision or rejection of the proposal now and then the start of work in the next period. The particular concern here relates to the cost risks posed by wide freedom of choice and, on the other hand, to the fragmentation of already integrated services. My question is this: If the legislation on freedom of choice was subsequently repealed by the new Parliament or limited in some way, what would be the impact? Would there be possible claims for damages from international health companies as a result of the termination of contracts?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u38	Mr President! This is a question that I had to answer a little last week when I was before the Audit Committee. That's the way I said it. This is exactly what we haven't thought about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u39	And the Swedish parliamentary group also had a question about social affairs. — Mr Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u40	Irade the Talman! I Helsingforsregionen håller de lokala beslutsfattarna stormöten där man kräver att vård- och landskapsreformen ska stoppas. Frågan är om regeringen verklgen kan köra över Nyland med 1.7 million invånare.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u41	Mr President! First of all, throughout this reform we have had a very open channel of information. Right there since 2015, we have always published all the presentations on the regional reform.fi website, including the unfinished presentations, in the reform ministers' group, and there is a lot of information there. But then I will say that regional reform.fi is a heavy site and is meant, for the most part, for parliamentarians, experts and those who seek more in-depth information. At this point, we have estimated a few months ago that we would also need more and more communication from citizens, that is, direct communication to citizens. Therefore, this website, Omamaakunta.fi, was published at the beginning of the year — or whether it might have been in March. It is always a matter of taste whether someone considers communication to be an image advertising or a proper advertising, but I think it is important that we also have communication for ordinary citizens directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u42	Next question, the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u43	Madam President! This week Anna-Maija Tikkanen has given a face to the most vulnerable Finnish unemployed — a courageous act. He has given a face to the long-term sick who are the hardest to get a job, and it is these unemployed people who have been particularly mistreated by the government. Their unemployment benefit has been cut, its level has been cut, and even the active model cutter is the most automatic of all for these unemployed people. And, Madam President, there are many of these unemployed people. According to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy’s own calculation, up to half of the unemployed need more social and health services than actual employment services. That is why I ask, Mr Lindström, what and what measures do you intend to take to facilitate the situation and situation of these unemployed people?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u44	Madam President! A good, proper question, and I will answer it properly. So, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, we have decided in the debate, among other things, that we should now look at the structure of this unemployment, because it has been identified. And the feedback that comes from the field is that in every region there are people who are not covered by the employment services but are covered by something else, such as social services. This must first be clarified in order to decide on the measures to be taken on them. This work has been started. Raija Collector and Tuija Oivo will find out about this and then make action proposals, which the government will then react to. So we have identified this problem, and of course this will be tackled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u45	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Järvinen continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u46	Madam President! It is certainly good to find out, but these people are in an emergency, and it is today. The government has taken a number of steps to weaken their position: the health care customer fees have been increased, the pharmaceutical caps have been increased, the reimbursement of diabetes medicines has been cut. The social welfare reform threatens to dismantle the services of the unemployed, which Kela, municipalities and TE Offices produce together. At the same time, the government itself has estimated that the mere active model is driving more and more long-term unemployed into the livelihood hatch, the most difficult of which is to get up. And that's not all. The government has drastically reduced the funding of vocational labour market training by as much as 75%, which is only a quarter of it. What is the government's message now for Anna-Maija Tikkanen and unemployed people like her who have no hope of anything better?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u47	Mr President! In other words, the collective services of the workforce, THP services, which therefore provide this cross-cutting service, will continue to be available in this growth service reform, i.e. they will not be abolished. Their need has been identified. It must be remembered that by now long-term unemployment has also fallen significantly, from more than 120,000 to some 90,000. There are still too many of them, and we have recognised that we are approaching the threshold of structural unemployment, that is to say that these services, which we now have on the labour side, are not enough, and that is why social services and other more individual services are needed. I know that this problem is here and now, but the government has taken measures and is constantly following this situation and, if necessary, taking new decisions in order to respond to the problems of the person following this example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u48	Mr President! The first new decision should be that the active model includes, for example, rehabilitation of Kela and health care measures. It would bite right into this target group. Now they're in rehab, but they're losing their money because the active model is so unreasonable. We all recognise the fact that there are people who need both employment services and social and health services. The big concern is that in this whole regional reform and social welfare reform, health checks on the unemployed will continue to be a direct choice, rehabilitation will depend on the banknote, adult social work will be at the social welfare office, some of the services may be on the personal budget, and then the employment services will be put on the market. How do you create integration when the TYP Act is being dismantled?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u49	Mr President! Representative Filatov described a scenario in which no one knew what the other was doing and a situation where the information would not pass and where no one would look at the customer or the patient, this same person, from the same direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u52	Mr President! I got a call from a middle-aged unemployed person. He had received sickness allowance for a maximum period, and although still unable to work, he at least registered with the employment office as an unemployed job seeker to obtain a benefit. He was granted unemployment benefit, but on the basis of an active model, he was reduced. There are very many of these unemployed people. In other words, in order to qualify for unemployment benefit, the same person registered as incapacitated at the employment office, but his unemployment benefit was reduced when he was unable to meet even the active condition. Is this consistent, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u53	Madam President! Of course we have recognized from the outset that there is a need for additional measures in the active model, and that is what we have done. We follow, listen to this feedback and, if necessary, do what Parliament has required of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u54	Mr President! Yes, the government should look in the mirror when assessing what the government’s policy has been for low-income Finnish people. There are severe cuts, many of which are directed at the same people: cuts in diabetes and celiac disease allowances, cuts in sickness and travel allowances, freezing basic safety and an active-model cutter — which, according to Kela’s experts, is not even encouraging work, but has had no effect, i.e. it still cuts almost 5% of the earnings of the unemployed who are the hardest to find employment. And now the experts estimate that the government's social welfare reform is actually breaking up the good things that have been achieved. In other words, the most vulnerable people are actually faced with the fact that it may be that services are restricted and customer charges are increased, thus increasing inequalities. Pirkanmaa has had a good test of how social services for the unemployed have been achieved on a municipal basis, and the employment situation has improved there. That too will end in this reform. Minister Orpo, did you at all evaluate your policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u55	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to repeat that when we move on to the fact that there are stronger organisers after the present very confusing whole, it really has the opportunity to bring together the services of even the weakest people, whether they are unemployed or deprived people or people who cannot take care of themselves. It is truly possible through stronger organizers. As far as government policy is concerned, I hope that it will now be seen that during this government Finland has made a significant positive turn. Nearly 100,000 more people are at work, debt has fallen, companies invest and hire more people. 100,000 people have come out of unemployment into their own livelihoods and are able to improve their position. And with this in mind, when we are able to get our public finances in order, we will be able to afford in the future — in other words, in the future — to take care of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u56	Let us take two more questions here, and the first one will be made by Mr Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u57	Madam President! Long-term unemployment has fallen, but we still have over 80,000 long-term unemployed. We have 70,000 young adults who are neither in education nor in work and who are a little attached to society. These require specific measures. We have third sector operators who have set such a roof of 3000 people, and they are in great difficulty, those who do valuable work among the protracted unemployment. But my real point is: have the values in this society been hardened? Are the values hardened? This Anna-Maija Tikkanen story tells a little about it. Where is the culture of solidarity, care and respect for human dignity in this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u58	Madam President! Although these stories that come out are of course true and always very heavy for the individual, despite the fact that the values have been hardened, I myself would argue that, when this government's objective is to get people to work, it is the best social security and that is what we want to do, that people actually get to work. This ceiling of 3000 people set for the third sector: I have given our officials the task of finding out whether it could go, with the ideas of my predecessor, through more criteria than through a chapter, to achieve the goal of what the government has, that there really are those actors who are aiming for that employment and that this pipeline should go to work, rather than those who are running in the same measures. We have a huge problem with people being in the wrong services, and that is the problem we are trying to solve with these numerous measures so that people are at the right place to take the right measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u59	Mr President! Many of the unemployed and temporary workers live below the poverty line. Their livelihoods are very difficult because their economies do not develop during this period of economic growth. They have the last safety net, could you say, these hundreds of thousands of organisations and third-sector actors who are helping them in this society? One of the actors is food aid organisations, of which there are about four hundred in Finland. Now, in Helsinki, among other things, it is planned that these applicants for food aid should be included in active activities. Now that we are each in different municipalities also decision-makers, I ask: Is it reasonable that we still expect some humiliating measures from them so that they can even have that food bag at home when the money is not enough to buy it? Is there any way we can soften these hard values? For example, we have Sitra, which is Parliament’s party fund. It finances such measures by which they feed queues
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u60	Mr President! This was an important value-based issue for all the most vulnerable people in society. I would say that my own view on this issue is different from that of Mr Nikon. The government's line on this issue is also through key projects supported by Ministry funds to seek mercy, participation and experience in cohesion, so that in my value world, I think a pretty tough solution, waiting in line for food, could end, and people could also get it along with the food bag, experience of cohesion and that someone cares about their lives more than just bread being in the mouth of the person with low incomes and poor livelihoods. This is clearly a difference of opinion in which the government has chosen a line of support for a Finland in which even a poor person is entitled to participation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u61	As usual, Question Time is, in particular, Question Time for the opposition, as has been the case this time. However, there are still three groups of questions here, one by one. Mr Kurvinen asks a question from the parliamentary group in the centre. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u62	Mr President! Today, the police announced that a man incarcerated on 4.5th of the reported homicide in the Alpine Heights of Helsinki has admitted that he has committed this act. This man has previously been convicted of three other homicides. In addition, he has a number of other serious sexual and violent crimes on his hands. According to publicly available data, this man has been found to be extremely dangerous in the assessments made by both Finnish and foreign authorities and is considered to be at high risk of crime recurrence. Other cases have also occurred in Finland in recent years where, for example, persons who have spent life and who have been paroled have recently renewed their crimes. THL conducts hazard assessments for persons accused and convicted of serious crimes, and such persons who have been assessed as being dangerous in the National Institute for Health and Welfare may be around 30 persons in Finland. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: what measures does the Ministry of Justice intend to take to get these people better under the control and control of society?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u63	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kurvise, for a very timely question. First of all, there are few of these people, but this is an extremely important question in principle if we do not have the mechanisms or the capacity and the means of legislation to keep these people in isolation. There must be even more precise and tougher ways for violent criminals who renew the crimes. We are increasing the risk assessment of violent criminals when they are released. More money has already been negotiated for the risk assessment. Then there will be a general blackmail on the part of the registrars against their punishments by tightening the rules of first-time law. At the same time, we will also examine in the ministry how it is possible to increase controls for these people by means of various mechanisms. I have also launched a study during the spring on the release of these most violent criminals and the extension of their sentences.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u64	Next, the question of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, Mr Suutari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u65	Mr President! The declining availability of skilled labour is becoming the worst obstacle to our growth. We know that, unfortunately, the government is not opening up the question of the availability of foreign labour. However, the government has taken important steps to facilitate labour migration and increase domestic access to skilled labour. Entrepreneurs all over Finland have sent feedback that there are orders in the metal industry, for example, up to congestion, but there are no factors. Minister Lindström himself has visited Ostrobothnia, where local entrepreneurs have received a similar message. The availability of labour has been considered difficult up to Kainuu. In particular, the availability of skilled labour prevents innovation-based growth that will safeguard Finland’s future. The situation is untenable. We cannot allow our vital economic growth, which has finally begun, to be congested by the lack of labour. The opposition also agreed with this in its last intermediate point when it said that the government has not made the labour market sufficiently flexible during this term of government. At the same time, the training of the domestic labour force is also
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u66	Madam President! Thank you for the question. This has become public today because of two news reports: one of the officials from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy had been interviewed about this theme, and the other was the exit of Antti Palola, Chairman of the STTK. These are often mixed up with two things. In this case, it was a question of regional policy. These regional policies are something that can be done by the living: the living may consider whether there is a need to facilitate this access assessment in a particular sector of the profession. However, these policies cannot ignore the question of access, which is a matter of law. What have we done? The permit procedure is constantly being developed between the Finnish Immigration Service and the TE administration in various forums and on concrete themes, focusing on this issue. We held a round table which stated that this promotion of licensing processes is the case here. In order to speed up the processing of employee's residence permit applications, one new TE Office was added at the beginning of the year, and this will reduce the number of applications made by the Pirkanmaa TE Office. In order to locate bottlenecks in the authorisation procedure, a study will be carried out during this year and all residence permits, including specialist permits, will be included.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u67	Blue Parliamentary Group, representative Elovaara.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u68	Mr President! I want to ask the government about the equality of parents and the rights of the child. It is estimated that about half of the parents of the children are divorced. In the event of a divorce, the child is often defined as a close parent who receives child benefit, for example. A close parent is usually a mother. It would be important for the child to maintain as close a relationship as possible to both parents after the divorce. Fathers, in particular, are placed in a weaker position in the event of divorce. We often discuss the various problems of equality, and in this respect men experience inequality. How could the government and the ministers concerned support and strengthen the position of men and fathers as good parents as possible and as close to their children — and so that children are not used as an instrument of power in difficult and painful divorce situations?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u69	Mr President! One of the government's most important projects is the reform of child custody and meeting legislation, the preparation of which is in the final stages at the Ministry of Justice, and in June it is planned to bring the legislative project to the attention of Parliament. This law has not been reformed for 35 years, even though the world around it has changed and family structures and the interests of children already call for this legislation to be changed. It will take greater account of the rights of both parents, the child’s strong right to both parents and also the child’s right to other close people, including grandparents. This is very important for many children. We are now creating regulation here, so that legislation will determine how the child will have rights to these close persons. So we will certainly achieve a much better result than the current situation. It must be said that, in connection with the drafting of this law, I would also like to see an in-depth debate in the Chamber on whether there are still some elements that need to be taken into account, because there are individual cases — of course, there are many people on the ground — where, from the point of view of everyday life, there are very many problems,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u70	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u71	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the citizens' initiative. It has called for a special tenacity to change a system that is perceived to be unfair, especially after one’s own disability. It has not been the intention of the authors to correct the wrongs they have experienced themselves, but it is the real hope that no one else will find themselves in a similar situation. The citizens' initiative system has proved its worth many times. Parliamentary elections and voting in them every four years are not enough to involve the people in decision-making. The citizens' initiative has provided people with a direct channel of influence. These initiatives have addressed both the big lines of action and the burning questions of the day. Almost 60,000 signatures of the citizens' initiative now under discussion, which eventually came within a few months, send a clear message of the importance and importance of this subject to the public. Mr President! The title of the initiative is as follows: ‘Arbitrarily removes from doctors of insurance and pension institutions the opinion of a doctor who is treating a patient with The work of insurance doctors has been a source of debate here in Parliament for decades. There have been dozens of state-owned activities, almost by all parties, regardless of the government—oppositional division. There have also been changes in legislation, but the system is still perceived as unfair among the citizens. I have received hundreds and hundreds of calls from people who have been deprived of unemployment benefits or timely rehabilitation because of the activities of insurance companies and the experts they use. From a legal point of view, it is contradictory that, in the event of accidents and injuries, insurance companies decide to grant compensation. At the same time, however, they are profit-making companies for which it would be in their interest if they had to pay as little damage as possible. In addition, an expert, who is also on the payroll of the insurance company, is involved in the settlement of claims. This leaves us with serious doubts as to the impartiality of the proceedings. In the public domain, we have read how the statements of doctors treating disputes have been reversed by an insurance doctor without even seeing the patient. Mr President! The second point that the citizens' initiative reveals is the exemption for insurance doctors to make assessments without any other formal provisions on healthcare professionals in accordance with the law. In practice, this means that doctors who took part in insurance companies' compensation decisions have not had to write their assessments and documents with the label ‘I guarantee my sense of conscience’. The absence of this so-called obligation of truth has tended to arouse public suspicion of the system. However, insurance doctors are involved in the reimbursement process in the role of a doctor and in the professional capacity of a doctor. For the credibility of the system, it is not justified for them to be exempt from these provisions for all other doctors. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has also identified the development needs of the insurance doctor system and a three-year advisory board has been set up for this purpose. Regrettably, the negotiating board is taking off on the wrong foot: the issues mentioned in the citizens' initiative have not been recognised as need for change, but the problem is now being put on the back of the doctors who are treating it. Poor insurance solutions are blamed on the doctor’s statements and their shortcomings. A more extensive training and electronic consultation form has been envisaged to provide clearer medical advice. However, I do know a number of cases in which the insurance company has denied injuries, which are the subject of a report from several specialist doctors in its own field. An insurance doctor, who is not necessarily a specialist in that field, is therefore able to reverse the causal link between the accident and the injury without any further justification. The problem is, and with these prospects, it stays at the end of the insurance company. Mr President! I hope that the citizens' initiative will be properly dealt with and give real consideration to the committee. This matter has already been the subject of a number of studies, spoken for so long that there is a need for change. Now we need the courage to make that change happen. All legislation must be based on citizens' legal security and trust in the legal system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u72	Let's go ahead with the list for a while, and if there's a need for a debut, we'll do it later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u73	Mr President! The representative of the Finns Party, Ronkainen, gave a good speech. He has been very active since last summer around this problem of insurance doctors. Last summer at the summer meeting of the Parliamentary Group, the Finns decided that, among other things, this reform of the insurance doctor, as well as the situation of indoor-air people, was one of our top projects, and that is why we also took the initiative. Unfortunately, however, there has been no progress, at least to the law, and let us see if any progress is being made under this government. That is why I particularly thank the citizens for bringing this here so that we can have a broader debate on this. I myself have been working in the insurance court since I graduated, the title of the deputy judge, and I saw for myself the problem of how the opinion of the doctor was very strongly guiding the decision-making process. I might think that some of the problems could be overcome by the fact that the doctor’s statements were more complete and also written in Finnish — for example, as the lawyer’s rapporteur, for example, I often did not understand the diagnosis, they were written in Latin and they were written to doctors — that it might be easier for lawyers working in the courts even to refute the opinion of this doctor. I have often wondered what could be done about this. One solution would be that, when there is a possible assessment that an application is rejected by an insurance company, the doctor would be obliged to meet the patient. Of course, it makes no sense to meet a patient if the application is to be accepted, to confirm it somehow. But there would be one such guarantee of legal certainty that if the doctor of the insurance company disagreed with the statements of the treating doctors, he would meet this patient, because it is quite extraordinary that the diagnosis is made, and especially the opposite diagnosis and decision, so that the treating doctors who have known the person for years are not taken into account. I would like once again to thank the people who brought this here because this is a very important issue, and this is also a great deal to do with indoors, for example. About 700,000 per year suffer from various indoor air diseases, and one of the problems is the lack of diagnostics and the incompetence of insurance doctors on that side. I very much hope that this will be dealt with well and that it will finally be done. We've been talking about this for years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u74	Mr President! Citizens' initiatives should always be treated with respect, and so should this. But there is one word in this initiative that I find very difficult to digest. That word is 'absolute'. Initial text of the initiative:‘Arbitrarilyremove from doctors of Mr President, I have been looking at these patient and insurance matters over 35 years in my medical career, both for the treating physician and for the insurance doctor. As a doctor at Kela, I have evaluated the medical opinions of treating doctors, including for long-term sick leave, even for those who are on long sick leave leading to permanent incapacity for work. In contrast to what is stated in the initiative, the insurance doctor does not withdraw the statements of the treating physicians and the insurance doctors do not make a decision on the pension or the disability issue. Based on the advice of the treating physicians, the insurance doctor gives his/her own expert assessment to the decision maker, who, in addition to medical knowledge, often also has other information about the patient’s or client’s life situation, work situation, functional ability. Of course, medical factors are often decisive. This statement is made by the insurance doctor as a medical expert, and I would stress that his opinion, his expert opinion, is based on having access to the medical opinions of the treating physicians. And that is exactly what I have learned during my career that these medical statements are indeed very varied. It is certainly not enough for the treating physician to state that the patient is incapacitated. The doctor’s report should describe the obstacles to working ability in such a way that the insurance doctor is able to determine the patient’s ability to function, i.e. whether or not he is able to work. So it is not enough that the opinion lists a long line of laboratory studies and states that there is a high incidence of X-ray wear and tear changes in the knees or hip. In addition, the treating physician should check whether the patient is able to squat, for example, how deep and whether he can get out of it with a bag of cement on his lap if his job is to lift bags of cement. Therefore, the opinion should contain a description of how the patient can cope with the findings that have been found, which is his ability to function. And so the work of the patient should also be described in such a way that the insurance doctor knows all that the patient needs to do in his work or in his everyday life. Mr President! The insurance doctor doesn't make arbitrary decisions. If the opinion of the insurance doctor and the treating doctor on the ability to work differs, it is often the case that the treating physician has not described the patient’s work and the limitations of the ability to work so that the description can reliably draw the right conclusions. Another important reason for the differences between the insurance doctor and the treating physician is also clear. If nursing doctors were to draw definitive conclusions on their patients’ ability to work, i.e. to retire patients or to give them other benefits, people would not be in an equal position, even in this small country. A doctor may label as incapacitated one who is not considered incapacitated by another doctor. Even doctors are human, and, for example, a good treatment relationship and the need to maintain it may unconsciously affect the doctor’s views and conclusions. I think it is a particularly good system for decisions on disability, pensions and other possible benefits to be taken centrally. At that time, the criteria for disability and disability are the same for all people throughout the country, regardless of where the patient lives, and also for who is his doctor. Mr President! Of course, this citizens' initiative should be dealt with properly, but I would like to emphasise that insurance doctors are the medical experts who, on the basis of the reports they have received, are responsible for expressing their views on the patient's ability to work. It is also true that, in individual cases, insurance doctors also get screwed up, which, of course, should not come. But in order to avoid excessive contradictions, I would like to point out what the first speaker has already said: it is precisely in the training of treating doctors that we should look more closely at how people's work and their survival should be described in medical reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u75	Madam President! Minister, ladies and gentlemen and others present! The citizens' initiative is also welcome on this issue, and this has led to a great deal of public debate. I personally would like to express my gratitude to the citizens' initiative makers for having this matter dealt with in detail by Parliament, perhaps also because, as the medical representative, Mrs Keränen, has said before, this initiative will be subject to careful scrutiny at committee level. I would also like to thank the fellow Members, Mr Ronkainen and Mr Harkimo, for the initiatives that have been taken around this same issue. I myself was thinking about that arbitrariness word in this title, but I myself thought that it merely reflects the frustration or feeling that these people are currently feeling. They are frustrated that their situation is not taken seriously, at least in their view. As a doctor, as a professional, Mrs Keränen brought this up well, how insurance doctors function and how they have access to the doctor’s statements. However, as a layman himself, I agree more with the amazement that Kela’s doctors and also insurance doctors make decisions without meeting the patient. In time, I was stopped by the rider Sarah Auvinen, whom I knew as a rider, who was riding himself. A 24-year-old young rider fell off a horse and suffered a brain and neck injury. Middle Tapiola considers him capable of work, and everyone who knows him, for example, from riding circles knows that this is not the case. Mr Harkimo and many others have brought up numerous hockey players with similar situations, and those people who have met know that the situation is different. The third person who woke myself up to this was a little related, Kriha veterans, crisis veterans. In time, I got to know Pekka Jylhaa, a crisis veteran who survived a case in Afghanistan where his Peacekeeper friend, his partner, died. Anyone who has met Pekka knows that he has not gone to Afghanistan in that condition, but for a long time he had to fight for rehabilitation and care. He has also visited my invitation as an expert in the Committee on Defence when we have made a crisis management veteran programme in this country, which is now in force and has improved the legal security of these Kriha veterans and those who go to crisis management tasks even at the worst moment. Anyone who met him in our committee, for example, knows that in that condition they will not travel to Afghanistan, nor will they carry a battle kit or go to the equipment where, for example, this accident took place in Afghanistan. I am pleased that later he has been treated, perhaps still not what he deserves. Mr President! As a layman and as a friend of these people, I am in favour of the idea that in some way we should strengthen the position of these injured people. Are these decisions arbitrary? I'm sure it's more emotion and frustration, but they don't seem fair to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u76	I will give Mr Mattila a five-minute reply and then a debate will be opened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u77	Madam President! As stated in the citizens' initiative, in terms of the credibility of the social insurance system, doctors' opinions and certificates are essential. The citizens' experience and sense of their own situation, as expressed in the citizens' initiative, cannot be wrong in itself. However, the fact that doctors in insurance and pension institutions are entitled to take decisions without responsibility for their statements under that provision, which is now Article 121 of the Accident and Occupational Diseases Act, is not true. The purpose of this provision is to clarify the position of an insurance institution’s medical practitioner in the treatment of a benefit case and in relation to the law on healthcare professionals. The law on healthcare professionals regulates the relationship between the treating physician and the patient. There is no such relationship between the insurance institution’s doctor and the pension applicant or any other customer. Insurance institutions perform a public administrative function in carrying out statutory insurance schemes. The doctor of the insurance institution participates in the decision-making of the insurance institution in exactly the same way as other experts and compensation handlers of the insurance institution. They're all acting on official responsibility. The expert is therefore ultimately responsible for his actions and statements in criminal matters and is also explicitly provided for in the Act on Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. Therefore, strengthening the statement through honor and conscience would have no legal substance or significance and would not increase the responsibility of an expert. In addition, it should be noted that the confirmation of a medical opinion through honor and conscience today only applies to external statements made to courts and authorities so that they do not need to be confirmed individually in the case of an oath on the spot. This is not the same purpose in the opinion of the medical doctor of the insurance institution. The doctor of the insurance institution shall give his reasoned opinion as part of the internal treatment of the insurance institution as a single expert. The statement is not a separate statement by an external expert to the insurance institution. Mr President! The citizens' initiative is now proceeding to Parliament's examination of the Act on Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. It is true that the development of an insurance doctor’s system has been much in the headlines and speeches. It has also been one of the priorities of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in recent years. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has also mapped out shortcomings in the system in previous government terms and has drawn up a programme of measures for the development of an insurance doctor’s system. One of the key areas for development was the justification for the decisions on benefits and compensation. As a result, new provisions requiring insurance institutions to justify decisions have been introduced into the legislation since the beginning of 2015. Communications have also been improved. Understandable information has been developed for citizens on social insurance, such as the basis for determining benefits, the application processes and the roles of the various parties in the system. It is absolutely necessary to continue this work. A broad-based advisory board has been set up in April this year to continue the development of the insurance doctor system on the basis of previous projects and studies. One of the most important and urgent issues is the training of insurance doctors and nursing doctors, to which I hope the Advisory Board will take a position and present a solution as soon as possible. The general objective is to increase the transparency of the insurance system and the social insurance system as a whole and to increase public confidence in the system. The Advisory Board should also monitor and evaluate the implementation of previous measures taken and continue to ensure the development of communication in a transparent manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u78	I'm opening a debate. I would ask those Members who wish to use the reply to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u79	Mr President! Thank you for raising an important issue for the author of the initiative. The problems and human experience are real and the initiative should not be ignored because of individual choice of words. There is a need for change in the system, and I hope that the committee will deal with the problem of insurance doctors and possible solutions in a broad, open and non-binding way with this approach. It would be important for the independence of insurance doctors and the transparency of their ties to be reviewed and legislation ensured in order to impose an obligation on insurance doctors to see the patient in conflict situations and to improve the skills of nursing doctors and insurance doctors. In addition, the impartiality of the Board of Appeal for Occupational Pensions must be ensured, and there may also be room for improvement in the procedures for the treatment of insurance law. I hope that these issues will be dealt with extensively during the committee debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u80	Madam President! The citizens' initiative is important, but I myself am opposed to a change of wording, because this does not remedy this basic problem. It is a question of our insurance doctors acting as objective experts in their own work. They guarantee that the affairs of all our citizens will be dealt with equally. In fact, we should draw attention to the fact that the clinical competence with which doctors perform their assessments is improved. We also have a great deal of disagreement on the part of the experts. Take, for example, this relapse injury to the rider: Is there a disease that he suffers from at all? I myself have often encountered a problem where experts disagree. We should therefore create uniform indicators in the kingdom to assess the patient’s clinical condition, his ability to function.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u81	Mr President! I would like to tell the previous speaker and the Minister one thing. Convincing by honor and conscience means that a doctor needs to see his patients, because he cannot convince by honor and conscience anything unless he has seen what needs to be assured. That is the starting point. But the worst thing about this is that this creates a situation in which a person is capable of working and unable to work at the same time, and this prevents a person from getting any income. On behalf of an insurance doctor, a person is able to work, but because he is not actually able to work, the employment office makes him incapacitated, and then he gets a hard-on when he cannot accept the kind of work he is offered. This is the big human problem, the problem with this. There should be some way to reconcile these. And if the insurance company says that a person is capable of work, then
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u82	Mr President! Thank you to the author and representative Ronkainen for bringing this matter up in due course, and thank you to the Finnish News for that it has come up. And a special thank you, of course, to Saara Auvise, who has given her face to this matter. The essential question here is surely whether the doctor does not have a conflict of interest in writing a statement by the employer on a matter for which his salary has been paid by the same employer. This is the most important question. Anyone who has employed employees expects the employee to act in his or her best interests. It is, in fact, so simple that we pass this on to another body as an independent decision-making body. In other words, these statements from all doctors must be put in a different place where this issue can be resolved and thus this problem of equality can be overcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u83	Madam President! Thanks to the people who took the initiative. In 2014, STM published a memorandum from the Insurance Scheme Development Working Group, in which one of the steering group’s proposals was that an impartial body should come forward with medical advice. However, it has not come true. So I'm gonna ask the minister: Why does this task force have to sit for three years? Would it not be worth a year to get the Minister himself to deal with this matter, or do we want to push it into the next parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u84	Mr President! I have enough experience in this area to have been employed in the past as a lay member of the Special Court on Social Security in Insurance. I know how problematic these accident and occupational diseases are, disability pension matters are at a practical level, setting the threshold. After all, the insurance court is chaired by a lawyer and then there is another lawyer, then a doctor member and two lay members. I was a layman, even though I'm a lawyer. Yes, at the time of the insurance court, it was often voted so, or not now often, but occasionally that the medical member's position was lost when factors other than purely medical factors could be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u85	Mr President! I too would like to thank those who have taken the initiative. It is very important that something that does not seem right and reasonable to people is changed in Parliament. As the old saying says, what is not right and fair cannot be a law. In other words, when this current system does not enjoy the confidence of the public, I would like to ask the Minister what you are going to do in concrete terms now that this system is being changed, that it will enjoy the confidence of the citizens and that it will not come into these unreasonable situations, that people are completely without compensation, without income, without rehabilitation, without sickness allowance — even if, for example, Kela: Kela's insurance doctors do not grant sickness allowance, even though a person's occupational health doctor has written a sick leave for a person. Then I'd ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u86	Madam President! Over 20 years ago, with the then representative Marjatta Stenius-Kaukonen, I arranged three seminars on this subject in the Parliament's auditorium. There were large numbers of these various parties involved, on the spot, and we also asked for people who had received a rejection decision for their application, even though we all saw that they were completely unworkable people. Their fate, though, was deeply moved. At those seminars, for example, we managed to get a little bit done in order to justify the rejection decision. But after that, the insurance company wrote a section that says it's been abandoned. It's not enough for a human being. This lack of confidence in the system is very deep, and you, Mr Mattila, will be excellently placed in history if you now deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u87	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative for their good work and for their perseverance. The way in which doctors' diagnosis is classified, which is a stronger diagnosis than the second, I cannot judge as a layman, but I would nevertheless like to see these procedures clarified in this respect — now that this citizens' initiative is going to be discussed in committee — with regard to how to deal with them. Then there is the second point: when, according to Article 21 of our Constitution, everyone has the right to have their case dealt with without delay, that is what is said in the Constitution, and when I know that there are cases in this area too, I also feel a couple of cases in my immediate circle where the fate of a person has been thrown around at different court levels and there have been diagnoses here and there but no final solution and then the ability to work has passed, it does seem disproportionate. All we need to do now is to create a system which, as the Constitution says, will deal with the matter without delay and then make a clear decision, and of course there will be a fundamental right of appeal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u88	Mr President! As Mr Kangasniemi has said here, it has been around for years and there has not been much progress. Thank you very much to the citizens' initiative makers. Question to the Minister: When a citizen receives a rejection decision, how much opportunity does he have to know the names of the doctors who have rejected and gone over the statements of the specialist treating him? How great a chance does he have to get to know these names, especially the qualifications of these doctors, what are they special physicians in this field?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u89	Mr President! Last season, as a law initiative on this same subject, I can tell you so much that I know that the insurance company is looking at where people live and what kind of opportunities there are for training and doing some work other than the work they have lost their ability to work. But this is the task of an insurance company, which rejects disability from a person, to show the path through which we can get back to work, or at least to try to get back to work. It is, in itself, a step forward in that the doctor now has to sign his statement. But what kind of opportunity is there today to know the specialists who say that a person with a foot below the knee can do any work he has done before, without being shown the kind of work he could do as a person who no longer works or may not have the leg?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u90	Mr President! As has now emerged from this debate in this House, this issue, this instance, has been known and discussed for a very long time, perhaps even decades, and many citizens and parliamentarians wonder why nothing has been done about it in practice, despite the numerous legal initiatives that have been taken to address this. I myself wonder that perhaps these speeches by Members of Parliament with a medical background — who have, unfortunately, both left the Chamber to answer questions — reflect the atmosphere that has hindered the progress of this matter. Is it not the case that meeting a patient would inform you of these changes in working capacity? And now that the patient is not met, there is no record of a change in working ability to be obtained by an insurance doctor. I am also surprised at the rather straightforward view expressed by Mr Keränen, who questioned the competence and objectivity of the treating physician in the care of his patient. I hope and believe that it will be better for Finnish specialists, or at least I do not believe that the insurance doctor would be more qualified or objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u91	And the reply, Minister Mattila, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u92	Madam President! Thank you for these questions and for the debate. I fully agree with what I said in my introductory statement: the citizens' experience of their own situation, not feeling, not disappointing, not frustrated, can not be wrong. And I also noted the need to increase the transparency of this system. We need to increase confidence, public confidence in the system. Congressman Harkimo, you asked me why for three years. And you asked whether this is the reason why they want this to be passed on to the next government. In my opinion, there is no logic in this in itself that something should be transferred to the future government. We just need to figure this out. And it may be that solutions will come before, but the negotiating board must now also have peace of work. Mr Taavitsainen, you asked what I was going to do as Minister. This citizens' initiative is now being discussed by Parliament, in the competent hands of Parliament, and perhaps in due course a response from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will be requested. At the Ministry, the Advisory Board is doing its job, and I will certainly come back to this as the work progresses. This is a particularly good question, which is the ability to work, the disability, and the fact that we still have these unworkable job seekers. This needs to be clarified now. It is precisely the fact that the citizen is in the right interest of the benefit that research work is under way as a joint project between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The debate that has already taken place during Question Time shows that we have people who are not covered by the right system of rehabilitation. This work has been scheduled for the end of October, and it will soon be back to that too. Then there is the objective of the Advisory Board's work: I would stress that we need public confidence in this system. This needs to be clarified. Transparency needs to be improved. It is precisely the task of the Advisory Board that has been set up to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u93	Mr President! I too would like to join in thanking the authors of this initiative. Special thanks also go to Mr Ronkainen in the back. In his own way, he's given her a face. Last season, the Finnish Parliament Group also became initiatives. Yes, seeing a patient and then convincing by honor and conscience are the things that make citizens' confidence in this situation improve. This is an unreasonable situation. This is unreasonable, especially because a person in such a strange intermediate state, when one doctor considers that he is capable of work and another doctor considers that he is unable to work, has no right to receive any kind of income. If a person is capable of work in the opinion of an insurance doctor and insurance company, it is indeed their job, as has already been heard here, to show the way, the truth to life — to work. We need, as we have heard, an impartial body that has no links in either direction, and this is urgently needed. There is no longer any delay here. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u94	Madam President! It was good that at least two people from medical background were working on this matter. My own personal experience on this subject is, however, twenty years long. The main reason for the vague situations is what has already been mentioned here: the treating doctor has made a vague application for sickness and invalidity pensions, which is why it is not acceptable under the law. It is a matter of interest in which, however, my experience is that insurance doctors work very carefully, use experts — even when the customer does not know how to ask for it — to ensure that customer safety and fair treatment are dealt with. But the general situation is, unfortunately, the fact that the treating normal doctor is too rarely involved in these matters, which leads to the perception of the client, this patient, that if the doctor says that you are entitled to it and that you are entitled to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u95	Let's go to the list of speakers. We can go to the debatt later if we need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u96	Mr President! I can understand why this citizens' initiative has been taken and why it quickly achieved the required signatures. Thousands of Finns have experienced that the current system of insurance doctors is not fair and does not safeguard the legal protection of citizens. The problem is that insurance doctors make different assessments of the condition of persons than treating doctors, even without seeing a person. The treating physician may estimate that the person is incapacitated, but the insurance doctor will end up with a different assessment without seeing the patient. Insurance doctors may also conclude that a person’s injury is not linked to an accident that the patient has experienced, even if the contact is apparent to the treating physician. In some cases, this leads to people who are actually unable to work not retiring but to hanging on the unemployment card at the mercy of an active model and to people who have experienced the damage not receiving their insurance premiums or receiving rehabilitation. Mr President! It is clear that the role of the treating physician cannot be the answer to the insurance benefits of patients. In addition to medicine, insurance doctors have a knowledge of the insurance sector and a legitimate role as system gatekeeper, whose task is to ensure that decisions are balanced as a whole and to coordinate medical information and insurance legislation. However, the legitimacy of the system suffers from the fact that people do not feel that the decisions of insurance doctors are objective and fair. Mr President! There is therefore a need for change in the system. I hope that this initiative will receive an in-depth examination, which will assess the reform needs of the system in a comprehensive way and make the necessary legislative changes. One possible reform could be to oblige insurance doctors to see and investigate the patient in a situation where the insurance doctor’s assessment of the patient’s condition differs from that of the treating physician. This would enable insurance doctors to be more responsible for their decisions, thus determining the actual situation and condition of the patient to the insurance doctor. In addition, the independence of insurance doctors must be ensured and their independence must be openly announced. The impartiality of the Board of Appeal for Occupational Pensions must also be ensured. In the insurance court, on the other hand, oral hearings could be increased in order to give the patient a better chance of making his or her situation known in the event of an appeal. In order to better describe the patient’s situation, the expertise of treating physicians in delivering opinions should perhaps also be improved. Mr President! Thank you for raising an important issue for the authors of the initiative to the House. I very much hope that this initiative will receive a comprehensive and valuable reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u97	Irade fru talman! Medborgarinitiativet som vi nu diskuterar tar upp känsliga frågor. Det handlar om läkaretik, och det handlar om att varje manniska ska ha rätt att få sin sak rättvist behandlad. I alla lägen är det ändå vasentligt att läkarna kan utföra sitt arbete utan påtryckning. Försäkringsläkarens scyldighet är att finna mänskliga motiveringar för sina beslut i stället för att gömma sig bakom paragraferna.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u98	Mr President! It is a good and important thing that this inadequacy of insurance doctors should now also be raised in the debate in Parliament through the citizens' initiative. In the past, a number of widely supported legislative initiatives have been taken, but they have not progressed in this House, perhaps for the reasons which have already emerged from this debate. I think it should be clear that insurance doctors are at least subject to the same rules as other doctors. These decisions are at the heart of human health and livelihood, and therefore should be entitled to individual and personal treatment, if such compensation is a negative decision. In my view, it is already necessary for the credibility of this House that this issue should be dealt with in the light of other considerations at the latest, and at least from the point of view of the citizens' initiative, and that credible answers be given to these questions and that the reasoned changes required by their answers be made. At least I will not accept any other outcome from this reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u99	Mr President! The position and decisions of insurance doctors have been chafing for a long time. Over the last few years, the newspapers have been able to read more sad stories about how the ability to work has gone but no compensation has been paid, even though the insurance has been in force. The insurance doctor must be an independent expert whose solutions are based on medical science and established solutions. Insurance companies must, of course, have the right to be sure that the payment is due. Yes, insurance doctors are needed, but something is wrong when you write about them in a bad way about that. Criticism has come, for example, from favouring insurance companies in decisions and from excluding other doctors from their own dignity. These medical reports are often backed up by respected specialists who may have been treating the patient and the client for a long time. Still, there is the feeling that these doctors’ statements are hardly quoted. In my written question of 2015 I asked why the information and qualifications of insurance doctors are so difficult to obtain, if at all, even if it relates to their own insurance decision. The answer then was rather vague, and apparently the information is still difficult to obtain. Like other doctors, insurance doctors are subject to certain ethical principles. The Administrative Act and other legislation also apply to their work. The work of an insurance doctor is certainly not the easiest job in this country and certainly not the most grateful. Despite the existing rules on insurance doctors, there is currently no desired level of insurance doctor activity, as confidence in the professional group is too weak. This citizens' initiative requires the removal of the arbitrary right of doctors from insurance and pension institutions to withdraw the medical opinion of the patient by amending Article 41d of the Accident Insurance Act. The explanatory statement criticises the differences between insurance companies and the doctors in pension institutions in relation to medical statements and opinions, as well as the lack of responsibilities or, in fact, their lack of responsibilities. I believe that the proposal for this initiative is justified, because action is now needed to increase the transparency and credibility of the medical assessment of insurance. I believe that a good and objective, professional, medical-based, well-founded assessment will take the light of day, so I do not see any proposals for amendments under the citizens' initiative as problematic from the point of view of insurance doctors either. Let us hope that here in Parliament there is the will to improve the position of a small person with regard to major insurance decisions for the individual. As Mr Meri has already said in his previous speech, the problems mentioned in the citizens' initiative have been strongly raised by the Finns themselves for a long time. In particular, Mr Ronkainen has raised the issue. To the citizens' initiative makers, I would like to express my very special thanks on this matter and on this initiative. This is very important and I hope there will be improvements to the problems they have raised. Mr President! To Minister Mattila: I would like to ask my question again, which I have just asked, and I repeat it. There are cases where, for example, two specialist doctors, and more, have given a statement to the client, the patient, that he is incapacitated. The insurance doctor, without seeing the patient, has suggested that this is not the case, but that he is capable of work. There are too many of these cases. I asked you a question like this: Does the customer have the opportunity to obtain the name of the insurance doctor who made the negative decision and his/her field of expertise, i.e. his/her qualifications? Is it possible for him to know who has rejected his application? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u100	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! ‘What is not a right or a right? “ The current activities of insurance companies and Kela insurance doctors do not enjoy the confidence of citizens. I very much appreciate the authors of the citizens' initiative, and there is also a great deal to be said here about how important it is that there is an opportunity for citizens' initiatives to be taken. At last, I hope that this will be dealt with in a way that will make the system fairer and better. Mr President! People are constantly faced with unreasonable situations when doctors have different views about the human situation: another doctor is ill and unable to work, and another doctor — that is, an insurance doctor — is capable of working even though this doctor has not even seen the patient. It is a very serious matter when, as a result of disability, illness or accident, the insurance company does not pay compensation and the person does not receive rehabilitation and at its worst falls into poverty and falls into the outer edges of society. Or when a self-employed occupational doctor says that the person is ill and is on sick leave, and Kela's insurance doctor says that he or she is able to work and Kela does not pay sickness allowance: In this case, the person should go to work, but the job does not take a person to work when the occupational doctor has prescribed him or her sick leave. Nor can he register as an unemployed job seeker at the TE Office because he has the job. In this case, because of the decisions of Kela’s insurance doctors, people end up in a completely broke state. A single mother told me that she was left completely broke with her 12-year-old child. She was ill, and Kela ignored the fact that she had a child to care for. How is it even imagined that the sickness can be cured when unpaid bills control and knock on the back of the head? With their decisions, Kela and insurance companies cause people to go into recovery, enforcement. Concerns, sorrows, suicides. Kela justifies its negative decisions by an assessment made by its own insurance doctors based on patient papers. People don't get the sense of justice about how an insurance doctor can make a decision without seeing the patient. For Finnish people, this current system feels irresponsible and cold. That is why it needs to be changed. Minister, the neutrality of insurance doctors and various side actions in insurance companies have also become public. I therefore hope that the Minister will clean these with a very precise magnifying glass. I hope that this citizens' initiative will be dealt with positively here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u101	Madam President! If you put the cat on the table: This is about money. If a young man gets hurt and becomes incapacitated for the rest of his life, it will cost the insurance company a million dollars. If there's 10,000 of these, let's talk billions of dollars. That's what this is all about. I would like to take one example. The slow and unclear way in which insurance companies operate is also scandalous. I'll take an example of a boy, a case. He had taken out a travel sickness insurance policy from the insurance company, which included a so - called sports extension. It was promised that if the boy gets hurt, he will be rehabilitated. A couple of years ago, he had a brain injury at a hockey game. Since then, he has suffered severe symptoms that reduce quality of life and are therefore incapacitated. According to the insurance company, he is not entitled to physical or neurological rehabilitation. Similarly, the insurance company has only paid a couple thousand euros for other care costs. Some of them have also been paid one year late and only after two different lawyers have approached the insurance company. In addition, the insurance company refuses to pay any loss of earnings and claims that the boy had renounced them at the time of purchase. The company has not provided any documentation on this. In addition, the insurance company has refused compensation for lack of further clarifications which it has not even requested from the customer. That's a case like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u102	Madam President! As I said earlier, this citizens' initiative is extremely good. It contains much the same as the bill I submitted last autumn, which received signatures from all the parties, I remember 57 signatures. I therefore hope that the citizens' initiative now before us and my legislative initiative will then be dealt with simultaneously in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The same applies to the representative. Lauslahti has taken the initiative to do this, and at the same time we could do everything. The removal of the right of insurance doctors in the citizens' initiative to withdraw the doctor's statements corresponds to the reverse burden of proof that I have presented. The reverse burden of proof is that compensation and pension decisions are taken in principle on the basis of the opinion of the insured treating physician. It has been criticised here for a little bit, but I will continue to say that the insurance company can only be exempted from paying compensation if it is able to prove the diagnosis and assessment of the treating physician to be fundamentally incorrect. It is quite remarkable that in appeal boards and in court dances, the insured person must prove that the diagnosis he has received from his doctor is correct. Should not the burden of medical proof be the responsibility of the insurance company if it seeks to refuse compensation? The injuries of the insured person have already been confirmed once by doctors in the care institution. However, under the law, the insurance company is not obliged to show what the person’s disability is due to if the company considers that it is not due to an accident. Mr President! The system is not fair, as the insured and the insurance company are in a completely unequal position. An appeal against a decision rejecting a decision may be brought before the Board of Appeal. However, the opinions of the appeal committee are merely recommendations that do not bind the insurance company or the insured person. In addition, there may be many disagreements about the impartiality of the panel. Complaints are lengthy, even for more than ten years, and often involve a period of financial uncertainty for the insured person. If the case ends up in court, then the situation is only unequal. The insurance company has more resources and expertise in both medicine and law. In addition, the unsuccessful party in the general court would normally also have to pay the costs of the defendant, so the insured person would face a huge financial risk. The insurance company, on the other hand, has little or no risk. If it loses the case, it will have to pay for the incapacity to work, which, according to its insurance contract, should have been compensated. Compensation for incapacity for work is often referred to as millions of dollars. If the insurance company is convicted of liability, there will be no sanctions for unpaid compensation. It is quite extraordinary that only the policyholder can commit fraud in matters of insurance. Mr President! In public, more people with disabilities have come out with their own name and face. The stories are touching and often incredible. I know the case of a young rider, of whom Mr Heinonen has already mentioned: He's suffered severe or moderate brain damage since he fell off a horse. However, the insurance company disagreed with a number of treating neurologists and dropped the injury from 11. to 2. As if by magic the entrepreneur was seen capable of working again in his own work. Now, the last thing I read about was a cop who was shot in his office from close range to his hand. The shooter was released before the police could return to work on their sick leave. It was not possible to return to a previous mission. In addition, the State Treasury’s insurance doctor felt that the injury classification was lower than the operating surgeon had estimated. The amount of compensation resulting from the crime decreased and the level of police income decreased significantly without his own fault. However, these stories and people that have become public are just the tip of the iceberg, a small scratch of the scale of the problem and an inconceivably unfair system. According to reports, this issue directly or indirectly affects a large number of citizens, even half a million Finns. If the insurance doctor system is changed, it will have huge implications for national welfare and confidence in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u103	Madam President! This bill well reflects the desperate spirit that many people in this country are genuinely experiencing. If treating doctors give patients a clear diagnosis of incapacity for work, either because of mental or physical illness, and the insurance doctor does the opposite analysis, then public disbelief in the whole system is quite understandable. It's not the position of a doctor treating a person that weighs anything, it's the reading of the insurance doctor's papers. This has already been said in many speeches. I think it is important to have a clearer system for these shortcomings. I have had countless conversations with a long - term sick person. He/she has a doctor who has a diagnosis of disability well identified. Many work trials have been carried out with very poor results. The funniest thing about this system is that even employment services are on the side of the more vulnerable individual. In this case, he is defined as incapacitated. No one offers these people a job, and nothing gives them a living. The main problem with this current system seems to me to be right here: at the same time, you are capable of working and unable to work. This balling within the system causes people the most sense of injustice. I agree with the many speeches that have already been made here. I would really like to see changes being made to these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u104	Madam President! There have been numerous, probably hundreds of written questions and dozens of legislative initiatives on this subject, while I myself have been here for some thirty years, and this is still the way it has been reported in many speeches. I think it is a disgrace to Parliament and to all the governments that have sat in this country over these years. That is why it is excellent that this citizens' initiative, which citizens can make directly and through which they can bring the matter to Parliament, has now been put in place. Thank you very much. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr Ronkainen, who also made this bill, which can now be discussed and taken forward by the committees. That translated burden of proof is one good model that should be explored and examined as to whether it is possible. And why not, but I understand that insurance companies, when they are listened to as experts, will find all the fault in that too. But this is not the time to give in to it. A little of the Minister's speech left me with the need for something other than an appeal to the negotiating board. The negotiating councils do discuss and drink coffee, and it must be nice, but things do not necessarily proceed through the negotiating boards. There is a real need to move the matter forward. First of all, the independence of these insurance doctors — that is to say, from insurance companies — is a key issue. It should be implemented as soon as possible. It is clear that not all applications are accepted and cannot be accepted. If it were accepted, we would probably all be putting an application in here pretty soon and getting a nice retirement, but of course this should not happen. But, as has been reported here, we have numerous cases known that even two specialist doctors have examined a person several times and have submitted their support for the application and, despite this, the rejection has taken place. People simply do not understand this. And I don't understand either. We must finally have a system of understanding and universal acceptance. Mr President! I do agree to a large extent with Mr Harkimio that this is basically a question of money. For example, if a 35-year-old person becomes injured and retires from working life, he or she may receive a reasonable pension, 30 years will enjoy it before he or she reaches retirement age. It is a matter of huge money, and it seems that the younger the applicant, the worse he gets these positive decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u105	Mr President! In recent years, there has been a lot of criticism of the citizens' initiative system, sometimes for a reason and often for no reason. However, there is an excellent feature of the system of citizens' initiatives that, until the social debate and the parliamentary debate, it can raise some of the shortcomings affecting large groups of citizens. The present citizens' initiative to amend Article 41d of the Accident Insurance Act, i.e. the right currently enjoyed by doctors of insurance companies and pension companies — the right without reasonable cause and even without the patient being seen to be overturned — is an example of an instance of an irregularity which Parliament has not previously dared to remedy. The reason why Parliament has not made progress on this issue, although it has certainly been known to us all for a long time, unfortunately I cannot even guess. Mr President! For the people of Peru, it is very important to correct this matter and the injustice for reasons of justice. Mr Ronkainen, who spoke very much in public at the beginning of the debate, gave a lot of thought to the points of view on this subject. Last year, Mr Ronkainen has also produced a legislative initiative with much of the same content, which, unfortunately, has not yet reached the end of Parliament. The situation is that legislative initiatives very often lapse at the end of the parliamentary term, but through this citizens' initiative, which is now under discussion, this is a problem in Parliament and the issue is gaining increasing weight and importance, which it certainly deserves. Mr President! Of course, the legal amendment would not completely eliminate the right of insurance doctors to withdraw the diagnosis of the treating physician, but in future it would be essential to require the appropriate justification for their decision, and I believe that this is a perfectly legitimate requirement. On the other hand, I believe that the current possibility for the insurance company and the doctors used by it to deny the diagnosis of the patient by the treating physician without the formal assurance of his professional ethics is totally contrary to his sense of law, and this is a problem which must be rectified as a matter of urgency. Mr President! The citizens' initiative makes it possible to put this right and at the same time significantly dispels the suspicions of the system. The people of Peru support this citizens' initiative very strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u106	Madam President! Mr Löfström said that these cases would be dealt with quickly. I would like to know whether the Minister is aware that it may take two years for the patient to reach any kind of decision on the insurance company. After that, he can apply for a grant from Kela, and it will take another year there. If the decision on the insurance company is negative and applies for a change from the Change Board, this whole process can take between 5 and 10 years, and the patient is always like a loose hanger. If that group does not bring about any other change, then at least it would be worth making a change rather quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u107	And the reply, Minister Mattila, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-17-ps-51.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for the debate. To Mr Kangas, I would like to say that this is now a referral debate for the citizens' initiative, and this is precisely what is going on in Parliament. In the Ministry, too, the actions are progressing and concrete proposals will be made. Mr Harkimo, I have heard about these hearings and I have seen them personally, I know about them, but I am not responsible for what Mr Löfström has said about these hearings. Instead, Mr Harkimo, when you pointed out that there is no rehabilitation or treatment, it must of course be said that no one is left untreated. Then we will deal with the public sector, not so much with insurance funds, but with tax resources — if it is the case that the company does not pay for rehabilitation or research. As for these hockey injuries you brought up. I ask a question when I do not know: should we, then, in hockey, also intervene in those games, do we have too much of an ideal for hard-on hockey? So I don't know, but I'm asking. Mr Elomaa, on two occasions you asked about this information and whether it is possible to obtain it. It is now precisely in this negotiating board that one of the key tasks is to increase the transparency of this system and the public's confidence in it. And with regard to that information, you have in due course received an answer — we will be able to come back to that later. — And now, Mr President, it seems that the time has already passed.
