ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u2	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u3	Mr President! The Sipilä Government is pushing for the working conditions of hardworking Finnish employees to be reduced. The aim is to reduce the protection of 300,000 employees in the event of an increase in the economy and employment. With these measures, the government has led to a confrontation with the labour market and an exceptionally tense situation. In addition, this proposal is being driven on very weak employment criteria. It seems that there seems to be no evidence that this proposal will increase employment — nothing more than what the ministers say. According to the evening newspaper, the government has been embellishing the employment impact of this proposal. Mr President! According to the news from MTV, the Prime Minister is now ready to invite, has called on the social partners to meet to deal with this situation. It has to be said that this is a very good thing, that is what we have been saying all along, five weeks. Now the question is, Prime Minister Sipilä:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u4	Mr President! The Sipilä government wants to promote employment. The Sipilä government wants to lower the employment threshold. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, there is also evidence of this: the employment rate of 72%, the circumstances from which we started, 115,000 unemployed people have been employed. Then there is also evidence that what has been done works. As to whether or not there has been discussion and debate: There is constant contact. Again this week I myself have met dozens of union representatives and tried to understand what the pain is in this law and whether there are any other pains that we could seek together. They're picking them up tonight, and we've been picking them up all week.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u5	Mr President! You left out the question of whether you are ready for a genuine dialogue, now precisely from an empty table, so that this issue can be resolved. But, Prime Minister, as far as these effects on employment are concerned, indeed, the Evening Journal has told us that in the original draft you honestly stated, in the original draft of the Government, that the employment impact assessment was almost zero, as is clear from your own studies, which you yourself commissioned from two independent researchers. Now this new version states that the net employment reaction is likely to be small, and this embellishment, this change has been made in a department that has been carried out by an official with a strong background in Finnish Entrepreneurs with a very strong interest in this matter. Prime Minister Sipilä, why did the government embellish the employment impact of the dismissal proposal, and who ordered these impact assessments to be changed? The Prime Minister is responsible for the legislative work of the entire government, and I ask the Prime Minister to reply to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u6	Mr President! Now the representative is moving in a strange area — questioning the motives of a Finnish official to make legal arguments. This is a very serious matter. I would ask the representative to think very carefully about what is behind such an argument. When a Finnish official works carefully, it is not politically addressed. It is clear that the law's reasoning is done carefully as a civil servant, and I have a very high degree of respect for the work done by Finnish officials.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u7	Mr President! I will continue with what the Prime Minister said, because I myself am responsible in the Ministry for these matters to which reference is made. The official has done these things with official responsibility, and the government has been honest in these assessments. It has told us what the effects are. We have carried out studies, we have tried nothing to show that these are better. There have also been a number of assessments made from those who have not necessarily been those who are often called upon to do so. Finnish Entrepreneurs have come up with their own estimates, the government has also listened to them, taken them into account and told them honestly that there seems to be minimal effects. But on the other hand, there is also the message that entrepreneurs tell that they would hire people, that is the point. I would urge Mr Lindtman here to be moderate when we go into such waters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u8	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u9	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, you are not answering the question as to why these estimates were changed along the way, even though no new studies have been made available, at least not so as to have been reported by you. Let me remind you once again: you have ordered two independent external assessments of whether the reduction of employment security for 300,000 hard-working workers, father and mother, will improve overnight employment. One says that the result is zero and the other says that the result is very small. Penna Urrila, Chief Economist of the Confederation of Finnish Industries, clearly states: ‘The government’s self-ordered calculations do not support the Prime Minister’s argument. “ And yet, this new proposal has a different view of the impact on employment. Why has the assessment of these effects been changed? I ask for an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u10	Mr President! Of course, these have been specified along the way. No attempt has been made to cover up those effects. We have honestly explained what has been found in the studies. We have also broadened these views and have said quite honestly what the result is, but we have also introduced new ones, including this issue of labour productivity. In other words, it is quite impossible to go into detail to tell what the employment impact is, as in thousands or tens of thousands, but the government does believe that these measures will bring us down the employment threshold and thus improve employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u11	Mr President! Indeed, the main reason for this controversial proposal has been to promote employment. And now it is confusing to say that when the government's own reports tell us that this is not the case, that it has no employment significance, and when the same information comes from the social partners, it is, however, for some incomprehensible reason that this is being pushed forward by force. You don't dare and you don't want to give it up. In January, Mr Lindström himself said that there was no need to weaken the protection against dismissal. You said in January this year that there was no need to weaken the protection against dismissal. Then we came to April and to the Government spending limits debate, and suddenly there was a need to begin to undermine both the working conditions of young people and the security of employment in small businesses. What happened, Minister Lindström, between January and April? Where did this need suddenly come from?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u12	Mr. Speaker! The need came from the fact that the government originally discussed the promotion of local reconciliation and, when there was no consensus, new means had to be brought to the table because the government was responsible for managing employment. And these two things came to the table, one of which is now gone, and there is only this one that has become this quarrel. This is the background, and I have honestly told the public this in any way without covering it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u13	Mr President! You, Minister Lindström, are now saying that we just had to come up with something, and on the other hand you told us earlier that this means which you have invented has minimal effects — minimal effects, you have just said — and because of these minimal effects you are driving our labour markets into confusion. Your own reports, as has been heard, say that this has no impact on employment. Nevertheless, Prime Minister Sipilä, you last spoke on Tuesday about the impact of this on employment, although your own reports tell us otherwise. Now, my question, my serious question, is that, when the Prime Minister's task is to steer the nation towards calmness and not to take away points from the storm, from the worse storm, should it not now be for the Prime Minister to say to the representative of the entrepreneurs who are now running the wheel to the Pentian, that please step aside, I will now take this to the calm, to withdraw your entrepreneurial proposal, which has no impact on employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u14	Mr President! Firstly, there are no proposals from entrepreneurs, but there are only government proposals which are currently on the evaluation council. The assessment of the impact on employment when minor changes in the labour market, as is the case, are very difficult. In this case, too, it has been estimated that long-term unemployment will have a positive impact on productivity and hence on long-term employment and the reduction of employment thresholds. This is what has been said about almost every dozen government activities, that this has no effect, that has no effect, that has no effect. But now that we have examined the impact of these government measures, between 33,000 and 42,000 jobs have been created thanks to these small measures, which have been carried out by a few ten, and in addition to this kiky agreement, which was also criticised, have been evaluated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u15	Mr President! It is said that storms are rising at sea, but they are always falling. Now, of course, we could speed up that storm and drive Finland's economy and employment into a peaceful port. In fact, I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the whole of Parliament: could we send a message here and now invite the parties to a joint table of agreements? I personally thank the Prime Minister. Last week, at Studio A, you presented a proposal to Mr Rinne and asked for his hand to be taken in a little calmer and to go to the source. In fact, I was surprised that the biggest opposition party did not take this up, because I would have taken it personally and told you that if you could get the Finnish Entrepreneurs involved in getting a trust system there, let's get to work. This would be a significant signal if Parliament as a whole now stopped arguing and gave a message together,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u16	Well, I wonder who's gonna answer this. The Prime Minister's name came up and the name of the Ringe, but I'm sure the Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u17	Mr President! I couldn't quite find the question, but I'm gonna try something to answer that. First of all, this bill went after the fact that we negotiated with the social partners in the trio for a year and a half on the question of whether the flexibility in the working time law of collective agreements could also be used in companies that are not organised and by workers who are neither organised nor part of the union, and by employers who are not members of the employers' union. I believe that in this unorganised field too, for example, the working time banks should be able to apply in exactly the same way as those companies that belong to the Confederation of Finnish Industries, and that was what this was all about in the first place. This is less than what we are talking about, but the impact on employment is positive, at least in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u18	Mr President! The situation in the labour market is worrying, and I would have asked the Prime Minister two things in fact: There is a lot of talk about lobby power and how lobbyists affect us politicians and perhaps the government. Of course, the role of Finnish entrepreneurs has been highlighted in this context. Would you like to describe in some way the government's relationship with Finnish Entrepreneurs and these proposals? It has created the impression that it is very close, perhaps too close to this issue, to the public, that the interests of an organization, not the interests of a nation, are being promoted. The second question I have relates to this fight against new solutions. When negotiations were held within the social partners on possible new solutions, you, the Prime Minister, rejected this idea. Why?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u19	Mr President! I must say that in this role as Prime Minister, perhaps the most surprising thing is the amount of lobbying in Finland, how strongly the interests in Finland are controlled. However, I must say that, in connection with these questions, I have met far more employees than employers' representatives, much more, for example, this week dozens of representatives of wage earners' unions — representatives of entrepreneurs I have not met once this week. But then to these new solutions. On Monday, I discussed this issue with a federal leader, namely the extension of the use of fixed-term contracts without justification. I already said at the time that I have my doubts about this extension, and in particular this weakening of the labour market position of young women.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u20	Mr President! 115,000 additional jobs — 115,000. There's quite a few relatives, a woman, or a neighbor, Arska, caught up with the job. In other words, in this policy of government something has been done correctly, perhaps quite a lot. However, at the moment, there is, admittedly, a tense situation and strikes in the labour market. The right to strike, Mr President, is, of course, justified, but it would be desirable that it should only be used with due consideration. Indeed, strikes are very often suffered by completely innocent and bystanders. This has also happened this week, and I think that is the situation right now. Mr President! We don't need a big strike wave in this country, we have to avoid it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u23	Mr President! As Mr Kaikkonen said, employment has increased by around 115,000 people in Finland since we started. The employment rate, which is of course just a number, has risen by 4 percentage points: when we started in June 2015, it was 67.7, now 71.7. And 1 percentage point is about 35,000 homes where life has changed and income levels have risen by about 1000 euros a month, 1 percentage point. So we've moved on. But it is clear that, in all situations, I, as Prime Minister and as the whole government, have a duty to do everything in my power to ensure that social peace is maintained, and to seek an active solution to it, even though there is no desire to launch the actual negotiations. The Government has been active and has actively met the parties. And all the invitations,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u24	Mr President! I have said in this Chamber before that if this decision-making process in society lacks each other's appreciation, ability to cooperate and understanding and ability to work together, then all the essential criteria for decision-making are missing. We are now living in a phase where we have scraped these strengths of ours. When it turns out that this weakening of the legislation on dismissal for employees does not lead to the desired employment effects, it is of course important to look for new alternatives. I hope that everyone will respond with all due respect to this search for alternatives, and if constructive proposals come between employees' organisations, employers' organisations, the actual parties involved, I hope that they will not be knocked out in advance just because they want to be knocked down. I would also like to remind you that when the Kiki agreement was concluded, the rules of local agreement were also discussed. And then, in June 2016, Prime Minister, you yourself stated that the model that was then built,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u25	Mr President! I fully agree with this appreciation and cooperation. That is what we want in every way. And together we want to prepare things. But when things are being prepared, you also have to seek results. Since we left so deep in this employment situation in Finland, our condition is that – because the government and Parliament are constitutionally responsible for ensuring that Finland’s employment rate is sufficiently high – we will be able to keep the welfare society alive – that we must always achieve results in these negotiations as well. This has not happened in all respects, and then the determination of the government and the determination of the Parliament to produce results is also needed. It's obvious. I have also criticised employers on many occasions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u26	Mr President! It has now been strongly accused and criticised that studies do not support this, that there is more employment. However, if you look at those studies a little more closely, you can also find quite different or different interpretations. It has been said that this will increase recruitment, new jobs. This will probably also increase redundancies, but when people go to the right jobs, it will increase productivity, it will increase profitability, it will increase growth. And then the question comes — for example, with Etla’s researchers — that it is likely to increase employment or raise wages as a solution. It is likely that it will increase employment as a result of more profitable companies, more growth-oriented companies, they will be able to afford to recruit and take risks. We should see this from a slightly longer perspective. And to the Prime Minister: Now that Bengt Holmström also said that we would have to move to this new labour market, we would now have to look at those countries that might have moved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u27	Mr President! I myself have discussed this statement with Etla's representatives, and it is precisely there that it states that this controversial law will increase productivity and will also probably improve long-term unemployment in the long run. The aim of all these changes is for us in Finland to be in a position for employees to compete for employees and to create a labour market. At the moment, we are very close to that situation. In many places there is a shortage of labour in Finland, and in that way there will be a market for those who are looking for work. And that is what we are trying to do — as Members have said in the previous debate, when discussing this very law — to achieve full employment. This is the goal of the Government, full employment in Finland, and thus also
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u28	Mr President! The Prime Minister just described us as having a shortage of labour. I will be wondering what solution this is to the shortage of labour, that we are going to make it from here on out. Finland is currently on the rise, the government has taken its own action, employment has improved, international exports are pulling. But what is the government doing? The Prime Minister has said here that negotiations have not begun. Would it be a time for us to build a reliable tomorrow for the export industry, rather than for us to have a reliable tomorrow, but the government, with its own stubbornness, ran the ship aground?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u29	Mr President! I could take this as you said about this state of the economy, how exports are drawn and employment is developing. Of course, a big thank-you to economic policy and a good economic climate worldwide, for what has been done, including the competitiveness pact, which has brought our business to the category of exports. But now we have to look seriously at today's figures. The last employment statistics show that our employment growth has slowed down — in a situation where we have 270,000 unemployed people in the country, in a situation where we have tens of thousands of vacancies. We're having very serious problems with the scene. At the same time, we are getting messages that companies are short of talent; at the same time, there are messages from companies that they would like to hire but the threshold for employment is too high. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure that good employment development continues so that the 270,000 people who are still unemployed can find jobs. We have to do these things, one at a time, one at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u30	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det är en mycket olycklig situation Finland nu befinner sig i. När jag har rört mig runt på företagsfältet så är budskapet man får höra det att det är brist på kunnig arbetskraft. Vi borde nu satsa allt på att göra vad vi kan för att åtgärda det problemmet istallet för att nu hela landet blir upp och ner på grund av en fråga som inte är är värd den korstorleken av — kan man säga till och med — kaos i vårt samhälle.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u31	Mr President! A very good question from Mr Henriksson. It's true what you said. I myself have such an approach to these problems now that I do not want to have any negotiations and debates in public, but of course there is no alternative to what Mr Ihalainen has suggested here — all must be looked at with patience as to what their impact might be, and should not be knocked out in advance. I am at least ready for this, and that is what the government has been trying to tell us all along that you bring the proposals. After all, for us the means are not the main thing here, but the main thing is to get such impressive steps forward. I think that this concern is justifiable. We missed 62,000 jobs in the second quarter due to these recruitment problems. Oh, when they were available too, these statistics would look quite different than they are at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u32	And one last supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u33	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, I understand that from your point of view this seems small. When you listen to ministers’ speeches, this does not increase employment, or if you do, minimally, as the Minister for Labour has said. However, I would like to bring another point of view to this. More than 300,000 people are currently experiencing uncertainty, insecurity because your presentation is at the table, and at the same time it must be said that this does not make it easier for them to be self-employed. There is still a new law applicable at the workplace, there will still be trials if you do not agree, and this will lead to interpretation from the Supreme Court when there is new legislation. Expensive, ridiculously expensive, inefficient activity. Prime Minister Sipilä, I ask you now that you have said about informal discussions and so on: are you ready this evening to start negotiations with the social partners on this issue on a clean table?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u34	Mr President! Tonight we're supposed to have a conversation on the clean table on the Summer Beach.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u35	Next question, Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u36	Mr. Speaker! At the beginning of this parliamentary term, the economy and employment were in deep crisis. A number of painful measures were taken when the Finns of Finland were in government to bring peace to the labour market and create a trust pact for society, and the results were good. This autumn, your government, Mr Prime Minister, has destroyed that trust and peace of work. Uncertainty and confrontation jeopardise the positive development of the economy and employment. All are now losers, even children and old people who have been left without food. Every one of us recognises that in small companies it is impossible to place a difficult worker in new jobs and there are major financial risks involved in dismissal. Small businesses need legal advice and assistance in these situations in order to prevent cases. Are you prepared, Mr Prime Minister, to act in such a way as to provide legal advice and assistance to small businesses in an appropriate way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u37	Prime Minister or Minister of Justice? Looks like the Prime Minister's getting up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u38	Mr President! You described well the situation of that small company. As in my last reply to the previous question, I tried to shed light on this, the sole purpose of this is that the size of the company, the number of employees, should be taken into account when assessing these matters. This is all there is to it. I think this is very sensible, and here too there was nodling when I said that this is what this is all about. We will also be discussing this issue this evening, how we could make a small attempt to ease the situation when the risks you have described materialise. Well, then, there has also been a lot of mention in these discussions of the fact that small companies have incompetence regarding, for example, the working time law, and yes, that is one thing,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u39	The Attorney General doesn't mind if he stays less than a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u40	Mr President! In Finland, jobs are becoming increasingly vulnerable to small businesses, and every possible means must be taken to create these jobs there. Reducing the employment thresholds is one way to speed up this work. At the same time, of course, we need to consider how to facilitate the situation of small entrepreneurs in these disputes and how to obtain legal assistance more easily. Legal insurance is one of the instruments that is already in place, of course, to hire a lawyer, but I am sure that in the coming years we will have to ask ourselves whether we need to develop this aspect of legal protection. It is quite challenging to start giving free legal aid to all matters in general, even if that is the case, but, of course, there could be a need for more advice from the government on labour law issues if more of this occurs, but this is what the law is intended for at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u41	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button. I give you one supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u42	Mr President! There is a shortage of labour in certain sectors, as has been heard here, but at the same time unemployment in Finland is still too high. In smaller growth companies, entrepreneurs often decide to do their own work rather than take the risk of hiring an employee. This is what it's all about. Alternatively, entrepreneurs use temporary employment in HR companies. This has led to 345,000 people currently in Finland in fixed-term employment relationships. A lot has been said about lobbying. In Finland, we have an exceptionally exceptional system called triangular: state power, employers, employees. Is this system in balance? Employers are represented through EK. They have 15,400 member companies. Approximately 6 per cent of all enterprises in Finland are members of the EK. And Finnish Entrepreneurs are like a curse word in this hall for many that it should not be lobbying, even though it represents over 100,000 small entrepreneurs. My question is: is the system in balance?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u43	Mr President! These tables do not include the representation of all companies and the representation of all employees. That is what we have to acknowledge. It would also be good for this House to find very moderate solutions and find solutions, that all employers and workers should be equal in applying, for example, all the flexibility agreed in collective agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u46	Next question, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u47	Mr President! Last week's climate march shows that people expect concrete measures from politicians. All policy areas should be considered from the point of view of climate change, including employment policy: what kind of jobs is it meaningful for the state to support, and how can employment policy be supported towards a carbon-neutral Finland? However, the government has not been able to cut subsidies that are harmful to the environment. Fossil fuels continue to receive around EUR 1 billion of tax subsidies per year. A significant opportunity to grow a more climate-friendly economy and to invest in creative industries would be available. Already the creative sectors account for about 3% of Finland’s GDP. However, the proportion could be higher. It is lower than in other Nordic countries. I would like to ask the minister responsible: how does the government intend to take action to raise the creative sectors and culture to the Nordic level as a development area for industrial policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u48	Minister Terho.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u49	Mr President! — Yeah, the creative minister responds. — In other words, the Minister for Culture is responsible for issues such as copyright and, in this respect, the EU's internal market. It is precisely 3 per cent of Finland's gross domestic product that is already a cultural sector. However, less people work in the cultural sector than before the recession. It is quite clear that our cultural sector, which has strong export potential, could be even greater. This requires not only the EU's internal market, but also just such boring administrative reforms as the clarity of these copyrights, that the authors actually receive money for producing content, which is a major challenge today, through these new platforms, which can easily be passed over by factors, so that they do not get their honest income. Secondly, of course, this traditional reform of the system of state subsidies is needed, that is to say, support for culture, which has been reformed during this parliamentary term and led by more resources. Entrepreneurship in the cultural sector is the most important thing. It must develop the same things as a small entrepreneur in general, i.e. equality of social security with an employee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u50	I would now ask those representatives who wish to use the supplementary question to stand up and press the V button. I give you one supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u51	Mr President! When it comes to creative sectors, you have to remember that it is about culture, music, the game industry, and so on. It is a very broad concept. The total value of the music industry alone in Finland is over 900 million. When we look at Sweden, we are suddenly talking about a billion, 2 billion, up to 3 billion, so you can ask why these Swedes have now been much better at commercialising music than we are. I would have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs when you are responsible for industrial policy and Finland's exports: how would you see that the creative sectors in general — not only the gaming industry but also the music and culture — would be made a real engine for Finnish exports so that we could challenge Sweden and other countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u52	Mr President! Mr Skinner is absolutely right: creative sectors should be used much more in other tastes for the creation of a land brand, and in the former, in the case of Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, these are clearly linked. At the Ministry of Employment and the Economy we have reacted in such a way that Business Finland currently has a programme of creative industries. So Business Finland is the one who supports it. We have previously brought together with OKM a joint film production aid which has been very successful. Today, as you know, Finland is filming foreign film productions, TV shows, Finnish films, and this has been one of the most successful parts of Finnish television and cinema in a certain way, but we need to expand. Finland has a very high level of music competence, as well as knowledge of creative industries in general. In fact, I hope that creative experts will increasingly turn to Business Finland, which is currently funding these projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u53	Next question, Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u54	Mr President! Finland participates in an international military exercise, which is the biggest exercise since the Cold War. It involves 45,000 soldiers and 30 countries. Military power is now being shown far too much in both the East and the West. The arms race does not contribute to stability and security in Finland. International military exercises are one way to integrate Finland closer to the military alliance. Some time ago, an attempt was made to import B-52 bombers into Finland. The question is: is Finland changing its foreign and security policy and preparing for a military exercise that would be led by a country other than Finland and would be organised in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u55	Mr President! Finland participates in the Trident Juncture exercise together with Sweden and from its own starting point. As far as training activities in Finland are concerned, it is organised by Finland. For example, in 2021, the main national military exercise will be accompanied by an international dimension, which we hope will also involve some 3,000 soldiers from partner countries that are central to us, mainly the Baltic States, the United States, the United Kingdom. That is why we are practicing that we have compatibility and that the latest legal task of the Defence Forces, the provision and reception of international assistance, may be possible if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u56	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u57	Mr President! I think it is good to have this debate. However, it is important that the debate remains calm and calm and does not talk about, for example, weapons systems that would mean bringing a B-52 to Finland. There is no such thing in anyone’s plans, and that is why it is, of course, unjustified to invoke such a thing. I think it is important, Mr Minister, that Finland has an active continuing role to play internationally with other countries with the same value base, which means that from Finland's own defence capability onwards, international practice is being carried out with countries with similar security policy interests. I hope that this will take into account both the Baltic Sea region and the Arctic region, where action will be taken in a way that will increase the security of Finland, and I hope that this will be the basic starting point in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u58	Mr President! The representative, Mr Kanerva, had the right view on this issue, and I confirm that at no time was Finland taking the US B-52 bomber here for training. Instead, I understand it has flown over Sweden. Instead, we had a fifth-generation F-22 Raptor air manager visiting Finland, and we also gained valuable experience in replacing the future HX project, the Hornets.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u59	Next question, Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u60	Mr President! According to Statistics Finland, more than 2,000 children have been born in January to September than last year at this time and the birth rate is lower than in any year since 1900. There are many reasons that affect birth rates, but unfortunately the government has also made numerous cuts in social benefits affecting the livelihood of families with children during this period and, among other things, index freezing, which has had a negative impact on the real value of child supplements, the main benefit of families with children. A positive political message is now needed to raise the low birth rate and also a change in attitude. In addition to the improvement of other benefits, the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament has proposed EUR 1000 baby money, and I also propose that we need a broad programme of family policy that covers more than government terms. How do you respond to these proposals?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u61	Mr President! The Government considers that the best Finnish family policy is one that enables each family to have a wish for their own number of children and its realization. The wishes of Finns have also changed somewhat. This is reflected in these birth rate statistics that are now shaking us a lot, and I am very pleased about this issue too, and therefore about raising the issue. There's not just one answer. If I had to give an individual answer, my point of view would be very different from that of this parliamentary term. Of course, it is regrettable that there are individual social benefits that can be seen as weakening for families with children, but from the point of view of Finnish families with children, the best thing to do is to create jobs that have been strongly raised during this Question Time and thus make it possible for many families to live in a different way. I am also pleased that with this speech the Christian Democrats may be able to interpret their commitment to the basic work of this government on child strategy and hence to the strategic thinking that goes beyond the parliamentary term on child-friendly Finland. It is Finland's next major effort.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u62	Here, too, I admit one supplementary question and ask those representatives who would like to use one to get up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u63	Mr President! A few days ago, a report on the future was discussed in this Chamber. It is very difficult to imagine the future if the children run out of Finland. I think, and the Greens believe that, regardless of who sits on the board and from which parties ministers come, it is up to every politician in Finland to build a child-friendly Finland with all the political measures that affect it. It is true that the benefits of families with children have been cut and parental leave reform has not been carried out, but I think that one of the most important factors that politicians can influence is to create a belief in the future for young Finns, children and young people, and adults of the age of starting a family. What do you see, Government and Minister Saarikko, what would be the creative elements of the faith in the future that we could still pursue during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u64	Mr President! Thank you for your valuable contribution. Surely it is easy for all of us to agree with that view. In general, it is very important how we talk about the future or about children as part of society in this Chamber and as social influences. At the same time, I would like to stress that the talk about children and actions should not just be intertwined with economic policy, as I am referring to the view that children are a good investment in the future. Childhood has absolute value here and now — in securing a good childhood, a safe environment for growth. In it, Finland’s most important resources are investment in long-term social policy, ranging from school meals to maternity kits and, above all, a high-quality school system. This is all that the government has wanted to strengthen further with a view to improving the accessibility of early childhood education services, but also to reducing the fragmentation of family services and supporting parenthood. School alone and kindergarten alone can't do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u65	Next question, Congressman Mäkipää.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u66	Mr President! Finland exports defence-related protective materials such as protective steel, first aid equipment and drone catapults to Saudi Arabia. Current export licences shall be valid until the end of this year. It has long been known that respect for human rights, such as freedom of expression, is weak in Saudi Arabia. During this period of government, weapons or so-called lethal force in Saudi Arabia have not been taken at all. During the last term of government, when the opposition was in the government, grenade launchers, or real weapons, were sold. I should like to ask Minister Niinistö: how will Finland consider granting military equipment permits in the future when the current permits expire?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u67	Ladies and gentlemen! This session is adjourned now. I would ask the representatives to leave this Chamber and outside the house very calmly. The same applies to the gallery spaces. From there, the agency champions will direct a lot down from the top. The continuation of the sitting shall be notified separately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u68	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now continuing the session that has just been interrupted because of the fire alarm. It is noted that, under these circumstances, Question Time has ended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u69	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 3/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u70	Mr President! The Audit Committee of the Parliament took the development needs of housing policy as a matter of its own. This decision was based on a very broad public debate on the major problems of housing policy, on the high cost of housing elsewhere and then on emptying homes in other parts of the world. The committee considered it justified to carry out an overall assessment of this issue and that it would have a major impact on the success and development of Finland as a whole and, of course, on the well-being of people. A separate study was carried out on this subject, which was completed a year ago, in autumn 2017. It particularly addressed the housing problem in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, because it is precisely this development of higher prices that has been most difficult here. A number of development proposals were made in that study, 18 in all, and the committee has gone through them in its own work. The committee listened to 65 experts on this theme and received a written opinion from 36 representatives. There was a lot of common criticism in this work across the field. Above all, there was a criticism that there was no overall approach to housing policy and that many decisions were too short-term. The criticism also came from the fact that housing policy is unpredictable, which makes it difficult to build new dwellings, to believe that this sector, particularly on the rental side, can operate on a long-term basis. This report has then gone through a wide range of problems and it should be said at the outset that I think it is very valuable that the report is unanimous. The committee did a lot of work and then found quite a common note. Indeed, the main problem is this problem of matching supply and demand, and this fragmentation of the housing market seems to be worsening. We know from research that 14 growth centres are concentrating on a very significant migration over the next twenty years — assuming that the population of these growth centres will increase by more than 600,000 — and then, at the same time, there will be a situation where rural areas will be depopulated but medium-sized urban centres will also be in considerable difficulties. As this development continues, the high housing costs elsewhere and the emptying of dwellings elsewhere are both a major problem for people and also a bottleneck for economic growth and Finland's future success. On this basis, the committee made its own proposals, which I shall briefly describe as follows: Firstly, to this short-term problem, the committee proposes that Parliament adopt in its opinion the idea of an eight-year development programme for housing policy, which would provide stability and predictability for operators in the sector, and which would also lead to an increase in affordable housing production, and further to report to Parliament, which would allow the whole Parliament to take a position, and this report would be submitted to Parliament by the end of 2020. As part of this eight-year development programme, a broad housing development programme is needed to support the positive development of different residential areas, including neighbourhoods and other residential areas, and in particular to prevent this differentiation. It must also include securing services, enabling a good level of housing and ensuring the vitality of residential areas. Parliament is proposed to adopt a position in which, in the context of this development programme, it will examine separately how problems of housing in declining areas can be prevented. This requires industrial, regional and educational policy solutions. In its earlier work, the committee has gone through this issue of fairly small urban centres and urban areas. In connection with the abolition of teacher training in Savonlinna, we talked a lot about this. The question is that if individual state organisations or state universities make narrow decisions about their own interests, they may end up with alternatives that are unsustainable for the overall interests of the state. In Savonlinna, when teacher training is abolished, it means the loss of hundreds of jobs and the vitality of the entire region is also compromised. In Savonlinna, when apartment buildings are demolished, the result is that more of them will be built in Joensuu with the support of society. The saving of a few hundred euros in the university group's balance sheets will result in the loss of millions and tens of millions for society as a whole. We must therefore also look at this whole package in such a way as to ensure balanced regional development. Well, then there's been a lot of talk about the housing allowance system. It was also in this study, the study, one of the key issues. After all, we currently have a quite significant amount of EUR 2 billion for housing support. The committee concluded that it is natural for a position to be taken on the development of the housing allowance system when a larger social security reform is being introduced in the next parliamentary term. There was therefore no reason to go now to propose the development of housing allowance, since we know that it has an important link with the reform of the entire social security system in the next parliamentary term. Furthermore, the committee proposes that Parliament take a clear position on the increase in the production of affordable state-subsidised rental housing, particularly in the capital region and in these growth centre regions — areas where there is currently a serious shortage of rental housing and where rents have risen sharply. When, on average, housing costs in the whole country take up about a quarter of the money available to citizens, this figure is almost 40% for low incomes in Helsinki, which is a really disproportionate proportion. The committee sees that there is no other solution than to increase housing production here on the side of affordable production. It then became clear that, for all growth centres, these so-called MAL agreements have a very high value. Now we have been working on these and they have become a success story of one kind. Municipalities undertake to plan more dwellings and also commit that a certain proportion of the production at affordable prices is reserved for planning and also for state-subsidised production. Similarly, the state has joined in by providing guarantees for infrastructure construction, transport connections, which has enabled the land to be planned for the municipalities. This has created a win-win situation. The committee proposes that this procedure be continued, that these be made longer-term, and that the State is also prepared to extend this MAL procedure to new areas. In this context, the State Housing Fund also carried out its own research and discussion, and the unanimous conclusion of the committee is that the status of the State Housing Fund as an independent operator should be maintained and that the fund's assets should be used specifically for housing and that the income flow of the Housing Fund should also be considered, in the future new sources of income should be considered. Then there is the quality of construction and the use of buildings. It is still sad that we have this problem of mold, despite previous positions in this House. It's an amazing phenomenon. The committee proposes to Parliament that we continue to raise quality, clarify responsibilities, and, separately, the committee proposes that Parliament take a position requiring the government to determine what assistance and support is needed for those who are trapped in a mold trap. Similarly, the committee took a positive view on the study of the cooperative model as one of the solutions to social housing and continued that the right to housing system needs to be continued and that legislation on this issue should be reformed in the next parliamentary term. I thank the members of the committee for their excellent cooperation. I believe that the unanimous report and Parliament's position on it will send a strong signal for the reform of housing policy in the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u71	Let us take a few speeches here and then go to the debate in a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u72	Mr President! The Audit Committee has carried out a major work on the basis of a study report on housing policy development targets and expert consultations. The ten thrusts and recommendations of the report are aimed at increasing affordable housing. The development of suburbs is important as well as the location of dwellings along public transport lines. We require an increase in affordable rental housing production in the capital region and other growing regions. We are also speeding up molding: the responsibilities of construction and repair must be put in order. The reform of the MAL contracts for land use, housing and transport and new ways of increasing affordable housing production are central. The aim is to extend the duration of the MALs and extend their use to new urban areas. The promotion of land use and zoning is of great importance for the supply of land, and sufficient land provision is a basic prerequisite for construction. A long-term housing policy development plan is needed. It matters to people on low incomes so that there is enough money for food, hobbies and other life. It is also important for access to the labour force of cities and businesses. Families need housing, students need more housing and elderly people need unhindered housing. As part of the development programme, a study is needed on how industrial, regional and educational policies can prevent problems of housing in declining areas. The Audit Committee believes that the State Housing Fund should continue to be an independent fund. It works for affordable housing production in both high and low-situations. As a new means of promoting housing production, we propose a cooperative model for social housing. It is also important to continue with the work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We propose that the quality of construction and the use of buildings be clearly improved and that controls and responsibilities be clarified. In addition, we need to find out what kind of help and support the people who are trapped in the mold trap need. In our extensive report, we are concerned about the development that is driving the separation of residential areas. Good local services, public transport, the opportunity to engage in leisure and recreation in the surrounding forests must be at the heart of suburban policy. It is important to invest in the comfort of residential areas and to invest social housing in different locations. The night of the homeless was just spent reminding our most vulnerable neighbors. Everyone needs a roof over their heads. The problem is concentrated in the capital region, where living is expensive. The Committee stresses the need to increase efforts to prevent homelessness. Housing counselling is an effective tool. Quick-movement activities must be curbed, and social policy and the provision of affordable housing production also play a role in preventing homelessness. The student housing situation is alarming. In the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, in August 2018, there were more than 10,000 applicants in line for student housing in Hoas, about a quarter of whom were first granted housing. According to a recent survey, student housing in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area should be increased by at least 6000 dwellings over the next ten years. The Committee also draws attention to the impact of measures to combat climate change in the development of housing policy. Transport accounts for about one fifth of Finland’s greenhouse gas emissions. Municipalities can influence emissions through land use and transport solutions, construction management, procurement, waste management and advice. The key is to influence the development of a sustainable urban structure through MAL agreements. A balanced and long-term housing and regional policy can, on the one hand, ensure adequate housing provision for growing areas and, on the other hand, respond to the problems of declining regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, this seemed to be a great deal of enthusiasm for a quick debate on the basis of a presentation. Let's do it now. I would ask those of you who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u74	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee: we have completed a unanimous report and it is of course valuable in this situation as a whole. I think there's been a lot of good withdrawals here. Yes, we need a comprehensive plan for Finland in the area of housing policy. There is a small lack of long-termism at the moment, and in this respect this issue raised in the report by our committee is important. Then I myself have been thinking, and that has also been mentioned in this committee report: what can we do to slow down this problem of confrontation and this migration to the capital region? In my opinion, it is vitally important to strengthen industrial policy and regional development policy and education in these more remote regions, but it will bring work there. And when there are jobs there, then this migration can be slowed down. That is perhaps the most important message on this issue in my view. I'm sure it'll get us nowhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u75	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the Audit Committee for a very good piece of work. This report provides a very good basis. All ten of these proposals are very easy to support. I am particularly pleased at the fact that the MAL agreement has been raised because it is a really good carrot that can guide, increase housing production, commit municipalities to it and do it in an environmentally friendly way, for example, by providing investment aid for sustainable public transport, support for rail transport, and thus a very balanced whole. What is also really important is that we apply for a long-term approach. Personally, I think that this MAL agreement could just as easily be applied for, even though the number of years it should be. Its length should be increased and its binding should be increased so that the results are certainly achieved and both will. What this does not answer yet and what we will then have to reflect on in this future programme is that what are the individual means of creating those reasonably priced squares. We can't build the land so full with interest rate support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u76	Mr President! I would like to thank the Audit Committee and its chairman, Mrs Heinäluoma, for the good work she has done on housing policy. Our housing policy is, in fact, very complex and there are many different issues that need to be addressed. I fully agree with what I said earlier about these MAL issues. They need to be more decisive in requiring regions to build, for example, new rail projects and others. But the next domestic economic crisis may well be around the large renovation debts of the housing companies. In fact, we have over 200,000 apartments in housing companies that do not receive a repair loan. This may be the kind of situation that is still very much on the back of the Finns, and I hope that particular attention will be paid to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u77	Irade the Talman! Mr Heinonen raised an important point, that is, between what construction costs in different parts of the country and what you can get out of a house that is ready to sell. This in itself is a major obstacle to the migration that would be necessary in order to improve the matching problem in the labour market. I would like to highlight one good thing that the committee has mentioned in its report, namely housing policy as a countercyclical issue. If we increase the supply of subsidised housing, it will work when the cycle is weak, but if we do so in a high economic climate, then it will not actually increase the number of dwellings. This may require difficult decisions in times of difficulty. When there is money, then you will be happy to increase it, but then it does not have the same effect. This may be a good thing to remember, while at some point we are inevitably faced with weaker times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u78	Mr President! It is very valuable, as many here have thanked for the fact that the Committee on Audit has again been able to produce a unanimous report, and these conclusions of the committee as a whole are worth reading and going through. During this research project and during the committee debate, experts may be critical of our housing policy, in particular its short-term nature or its lack of comprehensiveness, and against that background it is very important what Mr Heinäluoto stressed in his presentation. This new opening of the eight-year programme and its commitment is very welcome. Mr President! Last week I was in the night of the homeless in Kirkkonummi and there I met many homeless people — old people, people living alone, young people, even families with children — and even in this context, it is important that we now have a broad consensus on the right medicines, and that consensus is that we need more housing production and, in particular, the provision of affordable rental housing, and this committee's report supports this position.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u79	Mr President! This report by the Audit Committee is interesting to read, and we must wonder how we have managed to develop a problem of living in such a sparsely populated country. This report covers a wide range of issues, and perhaps, given the scope of the study, somehow, I see the hard core of this problem drowning, particularly in these proposals for measures. So I think that this problem always comes essentially from work, availability or lack of work. Where work is available, the cost of living is very high. When work came to New Town, for example, the price of living there increased very strongly when demand was high, but then, on the other hand, where there is no work, housing prices could collapse completely and housing prices could not be sold. In my view, this should be broken down precisely from the point of view of doing and receiving work. How could work be directed to areas where there is no work at the moment, through state measures, and how could obstacles to moving on to work, such as migration assistance or relief from the tax on transfers of funds be removed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u80	Mr President! This study, which has been taken up by the Audit Committee as a matter of concern by the Housing Policy Development Sites, is very extensive and precise. If you take away one letter K from this title, you will get ‘Development Guidelines for Housing Policy’,and I will make this report comprehensive and time-specific so that this can also be used as guidelines for But to this point, which we have: in our remote regions, housing prices are falling and then growth centres are rising, and this is due to a number of factors, such as business life and urbanisation, but I believe that the responsibility of the public sector is extremely high. There is not much time for this minute to tell about Savonlinna's case, but what we can do primarily in this house is to ensure a balanced development of areas so that at least no such sudden negative reactions are caused in the housing market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u81	Mr President! I also think it is very important that this Parliament unanimously approves these guidelines for the future. There are many important things here: construction quality, mold home problem, and the red thread is that there must be enough affordable homes for people. But, President-in-Office, in this debate I would like to raise one very important line, which is now being taken unanimously by Parliament, and that is the future of the Housing Fund. Here we want the fund to continue to be used to build affordable homes for people and to promote housing. In other words, this is a significant exit from the idea that the State Housing Fund should not be integrated into the state budget — these threats sometimes come from time to time. Mr Heinäluoma has already pointed out that it is also important that this is based on the fact that we will continue to secure the State Housing Fund in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u82	I will give you the answers to the representatives of Talvitie and Tolppanen, and then... Well, let's give a lot of people an answer!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u83	Mr President! It is very important that the Committee of Auditors was able to put together housing policy and proposals in such a package and, as has been shown here, also in a unanimous report. We need these MAL agreements and various measures, but we need that far-reaching approach. Our housing stock therefore consists of almost three million dwellings, 40 per cent of which are in housing companies. They have some pretty big repairs, and a lot of people are also wondering if it's worth taking it down or whether it's worth fixing. At the time, I made a proposal to amend the Housing Company Act to allow housing companies to give up unanimity and the consent of each shareholder. Today, in fact, there has been an amendment to the Housing Company Act in the Prime Minister's session, in which the Ministry of Justice proposes that four-fifths be enough, and it will then come to the Committee on the Environment. I hope that this will now proceed, because it was a cross-party bill with more than 100 signatories.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u84	Mr President! Thank you, too, for me. This was a very good paper — or a big opus, how is it now said — but nevertheless I would like to draw attention to the fact that, among other things, homeless people are also outside the capital region. Not that much, but every homeless person is too much. They also need housing in the countryside and in those prairies. Attention should also be paid to right-of-occupancy dwellings outside the capital region. The problem with that periphery is that when one resident leaves it, the expenses are shared with others, that is, the last one to turn off the lights and pay for everyone’s expenses. Of course, this is not the case. Similarly, the cooperative model is a very good model, and it could certainly be dispelled, but the problem with the cooperative model is that those dwellings cannot be rented in the same way as others, so that the owner lives in a cooperative-like house if they are owner-occupied dwellings. These cheap rental dwellings we need for educational places and rural areas too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u85	Mr President! Thank you to the Chairman of the Audit Committee for a good and comprehensive presentation. This cost of living does affect all of us Finns, although this report has shown that people living in the capital region are particularly affected by high housing prices and rent levels and make it difficult for people with low and medium incomes to buy housing. Yes, people in other parts of Finland are plagued by the cost of living. Their role in this expensive housing is, among other things, in the rigidity of planning and building regulations. It has, of course, been made easier in this parliamentary term, but there is still so much to be done that the next Parliament, too, can — and must — take great care of this issue. Of course, slow planning is not the only factor leading to the cost of housing. Mrs Mäkelä raised a number of other points in her speech, such as the extension of the migration allowance and the abolition of the transfer tax, for example, from people moving in after work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give the floor to the representatives of Reijonen, Wallinheimo, Skinner, Heinonen, and then the chairman of the committee, the representative. A haystack would finalize this stage of debatation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u87	Mr President! When there is talk of housing or other building, two things always arise: quality and price. The price can be influenced by many factors, such as planning, but also, as Mr Savio raised, by the role of municipalities, land use and planning, but also by the fact that standards have been dismantled and thereby trying to bring down the price. Well, of course, quality is influenced not only by design but also by the implementation itself. The Audit Committee also dealt with the Healthy Facilities programme, but also with the quality and control of construction. It is good that controls are stepped up. However, it must be borne in mind that in the current Land Use and Construction Act it no longer plays a role as a building control authority. It is then already in the role of the supervisor chosen by the developer, and it must be remembered that then the actual developer will also play an important role when quality is discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u88	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the committee and its chairman, Mr Heinäluoma, for their comprehensive report, which contained a great deal of good points and development proposals. With regard to the dismantling of the standards, there may have been some shortcomings, with the exception of the process of land use and building reform as a whole and the increase in planning to ensure the necessary land reserves and land supply in housing production. It is clear that there is still too much bureaucracy and it costs money. At least that's what the entrepreneurs are still sending out from that field. Complaint processes, evasive spaces, parking spaces and their criteria are still unfortunately perceived as high. And perhaps in this context you could ask Mr Heinäluoma: did you think that this whole was being looked at enough? Is there anything else that could possibly bring down the prices of the apartments?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u89	Mr President! For my part, too, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee and the committee as a whole for their unanimous view and, in particular, for the fact that we are now making a longer-term vision for the 2020s. I would like to raise a few elements of this debate. If and when I have followed much of Central European housing, its price and cost development, then I will now raise two aspects: The second concerns the speed of zoning. There are countries where in six months we can get the process through. Take advantage of digitalisation, technology, form a common vision between municipalities and regions and then do so. That's where we have the expertise, so it's worth taking into account. The second is the price of living. For example, in Germany, the price of multiplied housing production has fallen by squares, so in that sense I also challenge the construction industry to bring new business models and models that also bring competitiveness to prices. If that is possible in Central Europe, why not in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u90	Mr President! In fact, the price of housing is affected by the whole chain of land supply from zoning to building itself, the costs it entails. Then, of course, there are the costs of living in the large part, and, for example, when considering the valuation of property tax, care must be taken to ensure that they do not become unreasonable for anyone. But we also need a different kind of housing in this country, and adequate housing is in fact the best guarantee for affordable housing. These indoor air problems have been raised here, and they are a big challenge and a big problem for us. In fact, it has been quite extraordinary that there has been a long-standing concern in this country that the cold chain of food supply should not be broken, but it has not been very long to be concerned about whether the dry chain of construction will be broken. Often fatal mistakes have been made at that stage of construction, and they are now being paid for a very long time, both financially and through the health of many.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u91	And the last response to this debate, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u92	First of all, I would like to thank Parliament for the very good reception of this report. It is indeed a valuable thing that, in the midst of all the difficult and often controversial issues in which we are, there may have been common ideas on this issue. I believe that it will give the next government an excellent opportunity to tackle this work, and, as Mr Turunen well said here, there are new guidelines for this work. A few comments on the speeches that have been made. There are a lot of things here that are not included in these ten contributions, but which can be found there in the committee's report. Representative Heinonen considered the situation regarding the lending of housing companies. That is an undeniable problem, and it will certainly get worse. However, the committee went through the question of whether the mortgage on housing companies at the moment of establishment is on too thin a footing to take out very large amounts of company loans, 70% of the price of the entire dwelling, so that the debt repayment assessment can be carried out in a weak manner: it is not necessarily necessary to have a bank loan at all, without an assessment of the ability to pay. The committee took positions in this regard, which will hopefully guide further work. Mr Mäkelä spoke about the problem of encounters, whether it was taken into account. Indeed, the red thread of this report is precisely this problem of alignment. And when you look at President Pekkar, there is a longing here for balanced regional development, written directly and between the lines on several occasions. It is, in fact, at the heart of everything that this development of market forces cannot be completely prevented, but its speed can be influenced. Well, then Mr Adlercreutz wondered about this role of public authority, social housing. That's what we need. All we have to say is that in the 70s, 80s and 90s we had one fifth of the social housing production that was publicly subsidised from general housing production. Now we're at 7%. So we're gonna need this and more than before. Mr Savio and also Mr Wallinheimo considered the issue of rigidity. The committee went through this theme and came to the same conclusion that we must continue to simplify the regulations and also abandon some unnecessary ones. Or at least it is said that if they are not unnecessary, they cause so much cost that it is worth considering whether everything is necessary. There is a record of this in the committee's report. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u93	Mr Viitanen from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u94	Mr President! I welcome this report. I would like to thank the committee, its chairman, and I would like to say that it was a great pleasure to be involved in this issue as a whole. All in all, I think it is very important that we now unanimously set out certain guidelines for housing policy in this House for a further future, and, above all, they are very good guidelines, President, balanced, good, forwards. In all, the committee makes ten separate contributions which take a wide range of positions on important issues. They're good. They're talking about the development of suburbs. On the status of the State Housing Fund, then on these depopulation areas — all important lines, the quality of construction, all this. But I would also like to say that, as one red thread, I am sure that this is where every person must have the right to a home at a reasonable price. The big concern is that our housing is all too expensive, and that is why it is also significant that this long-term housing policy can respond to it. We want an eight-year over-government programme to be put in place to find answers to this issue, among other things, and to implement the means needed to achieve this overall. The cost of living, as I said, is a big problem. It is quite worrying that, in recent years, prices and rents have risen quite sharply and rapidly in relation to people's income, and the lower the income, the larger the amount that goes from everyday purse to living, and that is not a good thing at all. It is humanly wrong and also unwise in social policy. It is important that people can have more than just a hole in their pockets after housing costs. President! All in all, a great deal is said about the need for more affordable homes to be built. Rental apartments at affordable prices are needed. Building them is the answer to many questions, both homelessness and then these everyday problems, for example, in the capital region and growth centres. It is good that the committee here is taking good elements from the old ones and calling for them to be improved, to be made more efficient, to see that state subsidies are more attractive than they are today, to mention, for example, the A-Krunu and the realization that last season, when we discovered that there were not enough operators and that this social housing production was not attractive, the State itself took action, capitalised A-Krunu, and that onion — if you could say so. Similarly, this MAL concept — land use, housing and transport — is mentioned in positive terms, and indeed the line is given that they must be long-term in the future, made more binding, developed in substance, including new urban areas. We will also draw attention, among other things, to the report of the Working Party on Poverty, which recommends that future MAL agreements should provide even higher levels of social housing production. That's the ARA thing I already talked about in the debat. That is an important statement. It is significant when Parliament now quite simply says that its Housing Fund's task is to continue to speak and act on behalf of the tenant, the tenant. It is its traditional task, and we must stick to this — a big line when we know that there have been sometimes crosswinds of views on this issue as a whole. President! Not only must existing aid be made more effective, but we are also putting forward new points here. It is important to always develop new ones. We support it, and I think it is very important that it is given forcefully. To develop, for example, this cooperative model, the legislation on right-of-occupancy housing must be modernised, we want to support group building and we also want to put forward an idea — when there is little concern that when the restrictions on the disposal of old affordable rental dwellings cease, it means that rents will in many cases become market interest — that new instruments could be developed, including a subsidy for basic improvement, which would encourage the use of basic healing loans, which would allow the disposal restrictions to continue but then receive a subsidy that could even promote environmental and climate protection. President! To conclude this speech, it is very important that we also have a strong climate perspective in our thoughts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u95	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! This is an extremely important issue and, of course, it would have been desirable for more colleagues to be present. As I said in that debate, I personally believe that the next major economic crisis is one of the possible causes of the correction debt of housing companies. The problem is the company loans in the construction phase raised by the chairman of the committee, which have been talked about quite a lot, but much less so in the case of the renovation debts of the housing companies. Apartments are too cheap and thus their collateral value is not sufficient for repairs. For example, in a city as close to home as Lahti, where prices are about 750 euros per square metre. The renovation costs in many cases about 650 euros per square or tube renovation up to 800 euros per square, and the sponsor’s point of view such an equation does not simply work. In fact, when the price of a dwelling falls below EUR 1500 per square metre, there will be problems in obtaining a loan for these important, often vital, renovations that these houses need. We have more than 200,000 apartments located in these particular housing companies, which therefore find it difficult to obtain a repair loan for, for example, plumbing refurbishment, and these apartments are not in large numbers located in areas where residents are deprived, but in fact most of them are in Turku, where there are about 13,000 such dwellings, followed by Jyväskylä, Lahti, Tampere and Kouvola, where there are these types of apartments which do not want to receive a repair loan because the value of the apartments is too low. That is, for example, EUR 800 per square metre for a pay-per-square plumbing renovation, if the value of the dwelling is approximately EUR 1500 per square metre, no loan can be obtained today. That is actually the starting point for my speech. In my opinion, an excellent proposal is this longer eight-year development programme, i.e. looking clearly over the parliamentary term. At the same time, serious consideration must be given to whether housing construction, from our point of view, is primarily a housing policy, or how much economic policy should be involved, however, in it. In that sense, it is interesting that, when I myself chair the Committee on Finance's Housing and Environment, at the same time, we heard other experts who, on the other hand, thought that in the capital region, ARA production should be reduced and directed at this stage, perhaps preferably in a situation like this when construction takes place here, for example, in the growth corridors or in areas where there is no construction. It is also a place for reflection. Mr President! All in all, we have about three million apartments in Finland, and about one third of them are located in the six largest cities, namely Helsinki, Tampere, Espoo, Turku, Vantaa and Oulu, and then the other two thirds are elsewhere, and these rural areas and smaller cities still have bigger problems than I have described before. Most of our houses were built in the 60s, 70s and 80s, and, in fact, in the 70s, as suburban construction became more common, these houses were built, which are now in it at about 50 years of age, demanding window renovations, plumbing renovations and much more of this type of renovation and do not want to get a loan at the moment. Our ARA production is currently around 8,500 apartments. Last year nearly a record number of dwellings were built in Finland, 44200 were started, and this year there are around 44,000 dwellings. This figure is then a correction debt for municipal technical structures, which is partly linked to housing. At the Finnish national level, it is about EUR 2.5 billion — water, sewerage, electricity and, in part, urban street networks — and it is also a challenge. Mr President! Finally, I was talking about the cost of construction in that debat, but I hope that, when we talk about indoor air problems, more determined efforts will be made to strengthen the construction of wood. We have excellent operators in Finland at the moment in the field of wood construction, and when we also take care of the dry chain during the construction period, we can build houses in this country that do not have indoor air problems in the way in which these buildings were built in the 70s, 80s, 90s and even the 21st century. It is unforgivable that we have such houses that they are in repair condition even when they are under ten years of age. This can't happen again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u96	Mr President! Once again, as I said in my debate, I would like to thank the Audit Committee as a whole for taking such a large whole of housing as a matter of its own. In my opinion, this is a good way to bring major strategic elements into this Chamber and debate at all. I also said that it is good to have a longer-term vision until 2030, because living if that is also a climate change issue. That is why it is essential to look at housing as a whole and, at the same time, in relation to the circular economy: how to build housing, how to handle materials, how to use them? We have a lot of expertise in this area in Finland. I have just returned from Yokohama, Japan, Mr President, where it was clear that Finland is the world's leading circular economy, and now we see that the rest of the world, including Japan, is beginning to follow us, and that is a great thing. How, then, could we influence the affordability of living? Planning is one tool, speeding it up. We have good digital skills, but many municipalities are still slow to adopt new practices, the one-stop shop principle, such that the service plays and can be promised a certain quality and speed of service. The second point concerns construction in general. I was given the opportunity to familiarise myself, among other things, with the German model of operations in which complex construction works are being carried out. Why is a destination always planned separately in Finland? A single target brings costs. Multiplicity brings dimensional advantages with its scalability, which leads to lower square prices. I would like to see a model in the capital region or other Finnish growth centres that we might be able to talk about EUR 2500 per square metre. Of course it's a whole thing, but it's a smart and good industry, I hope. I referred here earlier to climate change and I am also concerned that when, for example, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy dealt with the so-called plastic directive, it turned out that we in Finland, as Finns, are taking construction waste out of Finland. We are not dealing with it ourselves. It's pretty incredible in a country that should be a pioneer in the circular economy. In this sense, too, we do not have the investment in industry. And what is the carbon footprint when the waste is then driven out of Finland? It's crazy, it's inconceivable. It must also provide a model for us to deal sustainably with the waste and, if possible, produce something new. We know how to make use of roof blankets here — we make it an asphalt raw material. We have countless good solutions for the circular economy, and they must also be seen on a larger scale. But then, Mr President, perhaps on my own favourite subject of wood construction. Of course, it is great to see that in the world, including Japan, very high apartment buildings are made of wood, in a country where earthquakes are truly and truly. It still seems difficult for us to believe that wood could be the answer to many things. At the same time, it should also be noted that wood construction is also a climate action. Therefore, the value added of wood must always be maximised, as in everything else. So, Mr President, to sum up: thank you to the committee for your very good work, but I would like to see this vision work by 2025, 2026 or 2030 brought in even more comprehensively from the perspective of the circular economy, from the perspective of transport and then from the perspective of how to achieve the advantage of proportions and the speed of planning and thus affordable housing for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u97	Madam President! As has been said many times here, this is a very valuable report. This problem is particularly challenging because at the same time we have to solve two completely different types of problems. My point of view is of course a Helsinki perspective: housing prices are out of control, housing is not available enough to meet demand, which in itself raises prices. On the other hand, we have the part of Finland from which we are moving away and where housing has lost its value, investments are difficult to make, repairs are difficult to make. We are in just the same challenging situation, but the other way around. This housing policy is linked to a lot of things. We already see in Helsinki that this is an obstacle to employment. In certain areas, in the low-wage sectors, it is difficult to get people to work, because that salary cannot live in this city. It's not enough for your own home. It is also a special feature of Helsinki that more and more of us have to rely on income support in order to be able to cover the cost of living, and this cannot be appropriate to any extent. When you talk about the situation in Helsinki or the situation in growing urban areas, sometimes the debate is reduced to saying that you just have to produce more. That is quite true, we have to produce more, but here too the quantity does not replace quality, but we have to look at what is produced. Sometimes you hear it said that we have a housing shortage here in the capital region. No, we have almost 30,000 flats empty. People just can't afford those apartments. So it is precisely affordable rental housing that must be produced. That is what the capital region needs at the moment. I value the fact that the committee has raised the issue of ARA production and its increase so strongly, and I think it is particularly valuable to note that, when the economic cycle is low, we need to build more, beyond our ambitions, because when the economic cycle is high, as we are now, we will miss the target, because the cost of the works is so high that it is difficult to reach the prices imposed by ARA and, on the other hand, it is not the most sensible use of taxpayers' money to build those dwellings when it is the most expensive. So I think that this is an important point relating to this long-term approach, which the committee is very concerned about in its report. We often talk about it and the committee also takes the view that planning should be speeded up. I'm sure it's true. I'm sure there are some points where we can speed up. But as a municipal decision-maker, I do not see that the biggest problem for us is the slowness of planning. Helsing currently has a five-year formula reserve, as I recall. The bottleneck we have is the handover of land, i.e. how to start what has been planned — find the right operator and make the economic equation work in such a way that at least to some extent it creates affordable housing. I think that land donation is the bottleneck that should be reversed. It is one of the best ways for the municipality to influence what is going to be built and under what conditions. The transfer of land can affect segregation, the transfer of land can affect the fact that the operator does not pledge ten plots of land unbuilt in anticipation of a better business cycle and better profits for himself. So it's such an encouragement to the municipalities to think about handing over land and how to use it as a means. As Mr Skinner rightly pointed out here, living is also a large part of the Finnish carbon footprint, and when we look at the ecological nature of living, we need to think about the building stock from its entire life cycle: from where it is produced, how long it will last in use, and what we will do when the building is at the end of its life cycle. Then the building material must be raw material for the circular economy. This is how we get far in our ecological objectives, and of course it involves the construction of wood. That's what we need to support. It is profitable for us in many ways. From the construction of wood, I come to this comprehensive reform of the Land Use and Building Act, which is currently under way. It also offers us the means to enable affordable housing production. Is it possible to find ways to accelerate or improve planning? Are there any rules that are unnecessary or unnecessarily increase the cost of construction? Of course, health and safety go ahead, but there are points where we can consider whether everything is so appropriate or whether it would be more sensible to loosen standards in such a way that construction costs would fall in a way that would then also be reflected in the price of the dwelling to the end user. At the moment, there is a great deal of work to be done in Helsinki to achieve market-based parking, so that the price of parking places and the price of housing can be separated from each other and, at the same time, to go further towards the cost that it needs, and also to contribute to our transport policy objectives. Finally, Mr President, aid for supply and demand: we therefore support production in order to build a new one, but at the same time we support the user of the dwelling so that he can cope with his housing costs. I mean, this relationship's totally Creis. After all, most go to housing allowance and support for the resident so that he can survive that apartment. If it speaks of more than 2 billion and then, again, in support of the production of new dwellings, it speaks of 10 million, I would see a way. That if we were to support more strongly and more of that affordable production, we could bring it up to a lower cost of housing support. This government has tried on many points to tackle the increase in housing allowance expenditure, but the only sustainable way to reduce housing allowance expenditure is to reduce the price of housing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u98	Madam Speaker! A few things remain, which I would like to say separately about this unanimous report by the committee. Apart from the fact that it is very important that it outlines this long-term programme for eight years, it is equally important that, as a matter of heart for me and for many of us, it is a line that should be drawn up as part of this programme for the development of residential areas, for a large, cross-administrative area, and, in particular, for all the actors to whom this belongs to to to be at the same table. Action is needed at both national and municipal level. In the suburbs there is a home of one and a half million Finns. Personally, I am in favour of a positive neighbourhood thinking that every single person should have the right to be happy in their own good living environment and to be prepared to work for it. The committee is writing a very heavy text on this issue, making a statement on it, and I think it is extremely important that this issue is clearly taken seriously. The committee also wonders a great deal about the problem of the fact that, from time to time in the world, we have seen that residential areas, suburbs have been separated and that there have been various problems, insecurity and so forth. In Finland as such, it has been made reasonably wise that, for example, in residential areas, we have made a wide variety of housing offering, with rental housing, owner-occupied housing, right-of-occupancy housing, many forms, and we have built diverse neighbourhoods. But these threats of inequality still exist today. We also heard experts in committee from this point of view and said that something needs to be done so that we do not go into situations as close as we have seen in our neighbouring country, Sweden, for example. These are big questions. This requires us to act in terms of housing policy, to build affordable homes, to rebuild suburban homes, etc. It needs to take action to maintain the services in the regions, to have good schools, to have low-threshold social and health care places available, to have good transport connections, to have a comfortable environment, to have leisure opportunities, community, inclusion. And I wouldn't hurt that security at all. There could be more of these suburban holes in the spirit of good old times. After all, the government did a kind of head start here when it resourced these...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u101	Madam President! What has been said quite a lot in this Chamber today on this issue is the formation of mold houses and mould houses. Personally, I have to say that I am wondering enormously, and I would also like to ask who has the responsibility. I live in a wooden house built in the 30s, and there is no mold in any corner, and the same weather as the neighboring house that was built 15 years ago and is in mold. Who has the responsibility, and do we have any chance of placing the builder in charge of what he does? Obviously, there are building errors. No mold comes into a house built from dry goods and built in the right way. I would like us to have a chance to intervene in this, because it will put people on the spot once and for all if there is mold in that new house or new house or apartment. These trades must not be dismantled as well as we imagine, nor can they be compensated as well as we imagine. It will always be subject to legal costs, and it will always be loss-making then to this buyer side anyway. Then another — I hope I get a little clarity: This is a cooperative model. The cooperative model is good in itself, but the cooperative model also needs a loan, just as housing companies do. No loan at different prices is available to the cooperative model from the bank than to anyone else; it must also be remembered. And even in cooperative housing, house-specific repairs must be made, and that house must be taken care of, and it also costs money. But it may be good, it may be that the loan becomes cheaper to take — a little odd, but of course this may be the case. But what is unclear about this cooperative model, now I would like to ask the chairman of the committee: is there now going to be a change of law, or is there a system to circumvent it so that housing can also be rented from a cooperative house? After all, the cooperative model works in a way that owns shares in the house and the person who owns the shares lives in that dwelling. And the thing about the necks that it might become is that when a person lives in that house for a long time... For example, if I live there and get older then and I want to move to a nursing home at some point and perhaps want to rent it to someone else, but I would not want to give it away because I would like to think that I still have my own home somewhere I might be able to go back to, and it might even become a little rent income then on retirement days and so on, according to the current legislation, that is impossible. Co-operative housing cannot be rented forward. What is good about the cooperative model is that it aims to have a sense of community and community, for example, to take care of yard areas and to deal with the cleaning of stairwells and other things that save costs, and I am certainly not against it. It's interesting when it's involved. Unfortunately, I have not been able to read all of this, but once I myself have at some point lived in a cooperative-based owner-occupied dwelling, I would like to know whether this matter has been involved. Otherwise, this is a very good thing, and I certainly support this, that these molds are now being tackled with a strong hand and that we should consider in advance how to eliminate moulded dwellings. I've made stories about it once, and it's just that if mold gets into the house, it doesn't go with paint, those spores stay in the house. It won't go away. We'll have to tear that house down at some point. There's always a new mold coming from somewhere. This was the case with VTT, among others. When they built a bunker where molds were examined, the first had to be dismantled because mold spores were released into the air. It was a bit paradoxical in itself, but this is how it is done. And, of course, I am concerned that there are almost empty detached houses in which an old woman or an old man lives, especially in the countryside. They do not have the opportunity to move out of there because the house cannot be sold — but it is closed so much — and they cannot get a rental dwelling when there is a owner-occupied dwelling. This is a rather difficult matter, and I would like to see an answer to that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u102	Mr President! A few comments on the speeches or the questions raised: This issue of the quality of construction is, of course, a genuine issue and a major concern, something that Mr Heinonen and, among other things, Mr Tolppanen and Mr Viitanen spoke about. When it comes to the quality of construction, it has to be said that it was clear from this work of the Audit Committee that it is not only about construction solutions — the dry chain, as has been said here — but also about the correct use of buildings. In the case of public buildings in particular, it has been found that ventilation has not been done as it should have been and that it has been saved, that air conditioning has been held at the weekend for reasons of savings, although perhaps, in the end, with regard to its air conditioning, the starting point in the drawings and design has been that air conditioning is in operation all the time, so that no harmful gases can be absorbed. These instructions are still building-specific. That is why the committee, in its own report, has come out of the fact that we should also talk about this use of buildings. There are old parliamentary decisions on quality and moisture problems, and the Audit Committee will go through them when the Board's annual report is discussed. They will obviously come back to them either at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year, but in any case during this parliamentary term. Mr Skinner spoke in an interesting way about this ambiguity. It did not really come up in the committee's work. It is a very exciting phenomenon that, although experts were consulted quite a bit, this idea of reproducibility was not on the table, and I believe that when this eight-year development programme is carried out during the next parliamentary term, its authors will take into account today's debate and also the ideas of Mr Skinner. And at best, it may be that Mr Skinner is there to make his own decisions, so that these greetings can also go directly through him. Wood construction is a big issue and has an ecological significance, as noted here. We can still do quite a lot for that. That has still not been successful, and here we have come, surprisingly enough, behind many other countries that have developed building regulations in such a way that wood construction has been more popular. Concrete has been our dominant mindset. Concrete industry has also provided its own information for decision-making. Mr Modig and Mr Viitanen spoke about these areas of decline, and that is a big question. We also discussed this idea, which President Niinistö launched in connection with the presidential election, that society could in any way be involved in helping in cases where, despite the fact that there is a declining industrial location and the values of housing are losing its meaning — a single house may be less than EUR 100,000, and at that price perhaps one room in the capital region — what can be done about it? But what was interesting was that no expert, Mr President, presented any solutions to this. And even though the committee went through this, it was said that we had to raise our hands and we could not find them in this panic. But I would now leave this as a lesson to the current government, perhaps yet, and in any case to the new government, when it is doing the programme. Representative Tolppanen considered this issue of housing cooperatives, and it has been possible for us to make housing cooperatives in Finland for a hundred years. However, they have not become more common, but the committee is convinced that it is a good form of housing, that is to say, between rented housing and owner-occupied housing. And we Finns are familiar with cooperative decision-making, because we have strong cooperative activities. But it is obvious in this regard that, if it were to be promoted, the legislation should be rewritten and clearer notes built. The good thing about the cooperative model is that the resident, the member of the cooperative, has a stronger position than in the case of the right to housing. The right of residence gives a person in the dwelling considerably less rights than the cooperative model would. This has been one of the criticisms of those living in a right-of-occupancy dwelling. So the assumption is that if we want to take this forward it will also require legislative changes. Sweden, for example, many other countries, some of the Nordic countries, Canada and so on have developed this cooperative model, and we should go this way. It is better that there are different kinds of flowers here that can be introduced than that we all go in one model. Once again, I would like to thank the representatives for an excellent debate. This strong consensus, which will leave this Chamber, will certainly strengthen the decision-making process during this parliamentary term, but also in the next parliamentary term, when this long-term, eight-year programme is drawn up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u103	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 11/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u104	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on civil servants, the law on municipal officials and the law on police administration. The law on the administration of the police would add the possibility of continuing the service after the expiry of the retirement age for a maximum period of two years, with the agreement of the police officer himself. The police officer acts as a representative and implementer of public authority and thus as a servant of every citizen. His job is to ensure that the citizen receives all the benefits and rights he or she deserves. Citizens must also be able to count on the role of a trained, professional, competent and well-being police officer, both physically and mentally. It should also be borne in mind that the right to remain in police office has largely been created to guarantee his objectivity and independence in the post he is running. According to Article 15 of the Police Administration Act, the age of the police officer is currently 68 years. According to the Civil Service Act, the police’s employment relationship ends at the end of the month during which the official reaches the retirement age without dismissal or any other measure for the termination of his service. So I have 68 years of age now, but this proposal proposes that, despite the age of resignation, my service can be extended for a maximum of two years with my consent. I'd be 70 years old. I think this age is too high for a normal police operation. On the other hand, it is good that the amendment of the law now allows the police to extend their careers. However, I consider this extension to be good only when the individual's expertise is needed within the organisation. I don't see much expert work for a 70-year-old police officer. This age applies to both men and women. My mother would be there in a hot dog stand under these conditions. There are sometimes 70-year-old representatives in this Chamber. You can think for yourself of what it would be like to be at the age of law enforcement when the other side has youths or maidens of the best age of their lives. I think the retirement age of the police is already too high. I have it for 60 years and four months, and I intend to take advantage of it. I hope that does not mean that my life will end there, even though retirement in history is a disaster for many police officers. I know a number of police officers who, when they retire, have very soon perished. They have been highly advantageous officials to the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u105	Madam President! Today's Question Time was about reducing the conditions of employment; earlier in this Chamber, there has been a debate about reducing the working conditions of workers, and this evening's debate is about weakening the working conditions of civil servants. It is a question of weakening the working conditions of both government officials and municipal officials. What is significant, as is the current line of this government, is that these issues have not been negotiated in the trio. So the workers and employers have not been involved in this. There are two good points in this proposal: one of which was referred to by the previous representative, i.e. retirement: of its own free will, two years may go on after the date indicated. This will therefore come with regard to government and municipal officials and will also be added to the law of the police. Another good innovation is that it is easier to decide on transfers so that the ministry from which the official is transferred can take that decision. However, from this list of weaknesses that is being presented here, it has already been stated in this discussion of the government's proposal that it has nothing to do with the impact on employment. The only thing that will be affected is the uncertainty about the work of the officials. When it is thought that we usually employ officials for jobs, it is not a business cycle, it is not a reason for orders or fewer orders to come in somewhere, but a reason for having to take decisions in a position, and these are now justified by the fact that they have separate employment effects. These weakenings don't have any. In our previous reports in the Administrative Committee, it has been said specifically that, apart from the fact that I do not support the weakening of the working conditions of workers, the situation is still different, particularly in the case of civil servants. The nature of the work carried out by civil servants is very different from the nature of the work carried out by employees, but, nevertheless, they want to do so. There are three different types of weakening here: The first is the reduction of the readmission obligation. As regards the obligation to take back, i.e. to inform a previously unemployed person that a place would now be freed up, it has been considered that it is administratively so difficult and cumbersome to send out the information that is why this reduction should be made. There was first a shift from the current 24-month model to 6 months, but the decision of the minister in committee was translated into 12 months. The second is that the long-term unemployed can be admitted to temporary employment without justification for a fixed term. In other words, a fixed-term employment relationship — or even an employment relationship, but in particular a service relationship — may be taken if the criterion is fixed-term or if a person wants or something else, but I did not yet find out the kind of post that would be set up for a year and could be jumped into by a person who has been long-term unemployed. The third point is the extension of the probationary period. In some cases, the probationary period for employed persons was extended to 6 months from the previous 4 months and before 3 months. The official has had the possibility of a probationary period of 6 months up to now, but now the government adds that the probationary period can be extended if a person is disabled or on parental leave. So if a person falls ill during the probationary period, the probationary period will be extended. Or if a person happens to become pregnant or has to take maternity leave or parental leave, the probationary period may be extended. That's a direct blackmail, especially for young women. In other words, when you apply for a job when you are pregnant and then there is a trial period, when you return after three years, that probation period is again ahead. I do not understand this logic, and that is why, of course, we have made amendments to these three points, which will then be put to the vote here tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u106	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u107	Madam President! In the bill I made, I propose to amend Chapter 17 of the Penal Code. A new chapter on offences against public order would include the violent opposition of the person performing the emergency care mission and the opposition of the person performing the emergency care mission. The purpose of my bill is that violence against paramedics should be condemned as severely as violence against an official. The need and urgency for a change of laws are great. Violence against paramedics is growing and has increased to the point where action is needed. At the beginning of the year, the Association of Emergency Services conducted a survey, which was answered by 377 persons performing emergency care. Over 90 percent reported having experienced threats and violent situations in their work. One in four had been assaulted. Mr President! Paramedics perform a public task and help people in need of immediate help. However, the task is not comparable to that of a public authority. In the Finnish legal order, it has been considered that public authority is not used in the emergency care task. The interpretation is the same even if the officer of the rescue department is the paramedic. Thus, the abuser of an EMT cannot in any case be convicted of violent opposition to an official. My bill has two aims: firstly, the increase in the penalty scale has a preventive effect. It raises the threshold to attack the paramedics. Secondly, it sends out a clear signal that violence against paramedics is being taken extremely seriously. It also contributes more to the level to which the profession belongs. At least it's my policy that it's just as criminal to attack a paramedic as it is to attack a police officer. Mr President! My bill fits the objectives of the Government Programme. The programme states that the government will improve the status of victims of crime in the criminal process by developing legislation. Ensure that penalties for offences are fair in relation to the reprehensibility of the act. It is also intended to check the level of punishment for violent crimes. In 2017, the Ministry of Justice carried out a survey on the public's sense of justice. One result was that the attitudes of the population towards violent crimes are stricter than those of the judges. Citizens would judge more harshly than judges for crimes against life and health, and slightly less so for crimes against property. Mr President! I propose that, on the basis of my initiative, a legislative amendment should be introduced which would protect the paramedics who are doing important work and would change the criminal code in a fairer way. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u108	Mr President! Now I would like to ask the author of this bill: Has this taken into account the fact that if, for example, the help has fallen and struck his head and is so-called confused and then the paramedic comes to help, then he will swoop all around and then get a sentence for it when he has fallen if he happens to swoop away? I do not understand this and I would like a little bit of opening up to what this means when the paramedics are being attacked. As a rule, I guess that's the kind of situation the other one has to be in when the paramedic comes in at all. So what does this as it is sought, what does this mean? So you can't have a baby with the bath water and you don't have the guts to call the paramedic anymore when it's in a state where it's all over everybody, kicking everything and not letting anyone come near you — it's a mess because it hit your head.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u109	Mr President! Of course, the Criminal Code contains specific provisions on discharge and the elimination of blame. If a person is in a state that, for example, he does not understand what he has done, then the fact that he does not understand what he has done or the other discharge criteria will become apparent. That, of course, the normal scope of criminal law would not be broadened by this. I think that is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u110	Then there is the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u111	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Ronkainen for this good bill, which would therefore include in the Criminal Code sections on the objection and violent opposition of the person performing the emergency care task and define the minimum and maximum penalties for acts. The representative of the Finns Party, Ronkainen, presented this bill and its justification quite well, and as has been said in this bill, hundreds of incidents of threat and violence occur each year in emergency care. Moreover, statistics show that the threat of violence has increased in recent years, and these figures, which have been presented in the statistics, do not even contain all the situations. This trend of increasing violence and its threat, including in the field of emergency care, is extremely worrying and indeed needs to be addressed, as this bill seeks to do. Mr President! Violence against, or the threat of, emergency care workers makes their work much more difficult, and indeed includes, among other things, emergency care for people who are suddenly ill or injured, in short, vital functions. It is therefore perfectly justified that such a form of violence, like all other forms of violence, should be treated with great seriousness, and that is precisely what this legislative initiative is aimed at. At the same time, the fairness of penalties would be increased. I am a little surprised by Mr Tolppanen's criticism of this, which was well answered here by Mr Meri. Mr President! I myself have also signed Mr Ronkainen's bill and I wish it a successful committee and parliamentary reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u112	Mr President! So, as I understand it, I asked a question and asked what happens in cases like this, and I got a response from the representative of the Sea. In my opinion, I did not criticise it in that way, but I asked the question: what if this is the case, should we be afraid? Is there any reason to be concerned, that was the starting point here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u114	Mr President! Of course, it is good to find out to the people and listeners what is at stake. It is the same, if you are a health centre doctor and an official, of course, and these situations are constantly coming to mind. After all, even now, if you attack a police officer and you are completely confused and without understanding because of your state of health, not because of intoxication, then these discharge criteria are at stake. But of course, if you go out there and hit your ass, then of course not. In criminal law, I looked at the difference between the violent resistance of an official and the abuse of a normal person, and yes there is a significant difference. In a normal assault sentence there will be a fine or 2 years in prison, and if there is a violent opposition to an official, then the assumption is that it will always be a prison sentence and that it will be at least 4 months and not more than 4 years. Of course, it can be imposed conditionally, but it shows the particular reprehensibility of doing exactly what people are doing, that because of their profession they expose themselves to our work to help us, such as police officers, paramedics, doctors, border guards, many such people who want to do good for people. There are serious situations, and they come there, exposing themselves and their own health, and then, if it is used specifically for reprehensible violence or opposition, it must be seen in punishment. I hope that the Minister of Justice will deal with this quickly and, of course, I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will address this. I think that the Finns, like Mr Ronkainen here, have had very good legislative initiatives in recent years and even in the past year. Among these, I would like to mention, among other things, Mr Ronkainen's bill on halal slaughter and its ban. It's now coming into the Animal Protection Act. Similarly, what I have received feedback from, my own bill on sexual involvement with animals, is now becoming a criminal offence in Finland at last in a broad sense. I have received a lot of mail from some groups. The rule of law does not include this type of activity, and it is generally the responsibility of criminal law to state what is acceptable in society. I have never imagined that sanctions alone will put an end to this unpleasant behaviour, but it is not worth abolishing them or not extending the area of criminal justice. It may also be thought that, for example, drunken driving or paedophilia and child involvement occur, but no one is seriously suggesting that their impunity should be abolished. Thank you, Jari Ronkainen, for a good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u115	Mr President! In July, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health sent a draft of the Government's proposal for a new Act on Clients and Patients. However, the idea put forward by the government in my bill had been completely translated into its head: Paramedics were designed to be restricted to patients, and that in practical field work would be completely different from the ministry’s paper. Some of the police's duties would have been transferred to paramedics without the law of civil servants. The draft law received such critical feedback during the consultation that it was returned to further preparation and is no longer progressing during this parliamentary term. I would therefore call for further preparation to take account of the comments made here today in order to improve the safety and position of paramedics at work. As Mr Tolppanen has said here, it is absolutely essential to start legislation on patients' rights, but it is also necessary to safeguard the rights of carers. In my opinion, Mr Meri has already made it very clear what is at stake here. Mr President! However, I would like to express my thanks to all the signatories to the initiative and I hope that this initiative will still get to committee because of its urgent nature and its important subject. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u116	Madam President! This bill certainly has an important objective in itself and the idea that people in emergency care should be better protected, and I would say that today, not only in emergency care situations, but in health care far more widely and, for example, in on-call services, such as health centres and similar situations, these situations are constantly coming up. But, indeed, when we look at the Finnish legal order and consider what the status of paramedic and health care staff is, it is considered that it does not exercise public authority, as the explanatory section of this bill does, and in the sense of treating the paramedic as an official in this situation, certainly from the point of view of the public order, it certainly raises the question here, even though there is agreement on the objective itself. I am also thinking of situations where it may be difficult to verify afterwards what has been a person’s ability to act in relation to a person’s reduced health or understanding. Consider, for example, a reduction in blood sugar or a person who is dehydrated, for example, who may violently resist a person who is trying to help him. For example, during sports games, I have witnessed situations where a person has been on the verge of exhaustion, such as dehydration, hitting people who came to help him, and also those who have tried to remove him from the track in connection with a marathon or similar sports performance. These are such that if these really start to wonder, after all, where that line has gone and whether man has been in full understanding and other things, then this can become a bit of a difficult situation. As such, I understand the good intentions of this bill, but perhaps in the general legal order and in the question of who is an official and whether or not to exercise public authority, then the difficulty of this bill is to find the right point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u117	Mr President! It is good to consider these definitions of civil service law and others, but of course this in itself does not necessarily change the ex post consideration, because, of course, even now, an EMT could report an offence, for example, for minor assault or assault, and it would then have to investigate these same problems, which Mrs Essayah rightly pointed out, but this change in the penalty scale would of course be particularly reprehensible to the act if it could be demonstrated that it is deliberate. In criminal law, all crimes require willful action, as is the case with ill-treatment and mild ill-treatment, unless the act is misdemeanorly punished, which is, of course, the ultimate exception to punishment. That, in my opinion, there would be no obstacle to this. Of course, these are things that need to be considered, but in some way this issue must be resolved with regard to the people who are exposed to their health. That same problematicity also comes, as I said earlier, even though with the police: he is clearly an official and is subject to the provisions on violent opposition and opposition by an official. Of course, this opposition to an official should be added to the field of use, and I understand that it could be an extension of the field of use. The Committee on Legal Affairs can reflect on this in its wisdom, and I believe that there is enough expertise there and that the experts' views will lead to a good law on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u118	Mr President! That representative, Essayah, raised these emergency services at health centres, and there may be many more, such as home care, or similar. It's quite clear how big this should possibly be. However, when it comes to people doing emergency care, many times they go to a place with very small preliminary information, they do not even know what is coming out of it. That is why, in this initiative I have taken, these have been raised to fram. However, 377 people in the field of emergency care responded and more than 90 per cent reported that they had experienced threats and violent situations in their work. This has hardly been about people who have fallen and hit their heads, but I think that the bigger problem we have at the moment is drug addicts and others like them, and I think that the deterrent must be strong enough. Whether or not it will work remains to be seen, but I would see that it would be extremely important to correct this lack of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u119	Mr President! Now we had to run back to take the floor when we were talking about these drug addicts, alcoholics, addicts — these mainly now, and mixed users are also addicts. Here, too, I would like to point out that alcoholism, addiction, drug addiction are also diseases. These are diseases that require two things: a gene and a substance. If you are a mere substance, you do not get sick, if you are a mere gene, you do not get sick, but when you have these together, you get sick. I quite understand the premise that the paramedic must be allowed to do his job — I do not know how it will be brought there. It is good, for example, to secure the work of people working at a health centre. What is the way to protect people? Is it a new law, or is it more staff? In any case, people must be allowed to do their job in such a way that there is no need to be afraid of it. That's the starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u120	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u121	Madam President! This is a bill to amend the Act on Insurance Contracts. This bill proposes to amend the Act on Insurance Contracts. The amendment would limit the possibility for the insurer to refuse to grant home insurance on the basis of the insolvency of the applicant. This is what we have been talking about here for a long time. In other words, no one is to be denied home insurance because the person has a credit rating, because today the lack of home insurance prevents the rental of the dwelling. I know that there are already ways in which the landlord can insure that dwelling, but not all landlords do so, and here it is suggested that we have to give it now, we have to give it to such a person as home insurance. We have one of these exceptions in legislation already in place in the past regarding insurance, and it is compulsory motor insurance. Everyone will get it: although everyone will certainly not have the opportunity and has no money for that car or motorcycle, compulsory motor insurance will be available. Here are three points that are proposed to be changed to the law. I'll go through them real quick. I propose that it be added as the ‘Invalidation for failure to pay’ criterion (paragraph 6b)that the insureris not arejector of a building or a dwelling in which there is an accident This is the main point in this section. Then there is Article 38, ‘Security payment’. The aim here is to ensure not only that the person has time to pay, but also that the insurer gets his money. In other words, the key content of the following quotes from here: ‘The first payment shall be made prior to the beginning of the insurer’s liability,unless the payment is subject to the conditions of the insurer’s liability,and not before the beginning of the agreed period or period of In other words, this law has been quite complex in the past, but this ensures that a person does not have to have many insurances, as it were. And then Article 38a, which is a new provision: ‘The insurance contribution shall be paid at the earliest 14days before the start of the new insurance period or insurance period. “ This guarantees that the insurer, the insurance company, will receive the payment, and if not, it will be able to withdraw this insurance, after which the lessor will, of course, be able to terminate the lease. In this respect, I have tried to take into account both the private insurance company's concern that it works for them and that it also works for people to get home insurance and get out of a worse position to perhaps try to start living again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u122	Mr President! Sounds like a good and balanced bill. With very great interest, I have just listened to this, that when you have an obligation to provide insurance, how will the insurer then ensure that you do not need to increase the premium for other policyholders, for example, because of the risk criterion? This balance has been well sought. This is very important in the sense that, for example, I myself am getting a lot of calls from people who have, for one reason or another, collected bills, for example, for the elderly because of being in hospital, and they have even gone up to the time of enforcement, and there will be a default and then there will be these different problems. The same applies, of course, to renting a dwelling and many other things. Mr Tolppanen has found that balance very well. I understand that these are very complex and very careful work has been done, so thank you for a good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u123	Madam President! This problem has arisen when we have discussed many times the situation of these over-indebted people and the way in which, for example, people who have been foolishly caught up in a quick-width spiral, the situation in life — most of the time still young people — has become so that since then there has been no possibility to apply for a tenancy agreement or to make progress in many other areas of life. In that sense, it is worth taking this bill very seriously and wondering whether this is the way and the opportunity to resolve this issue. I understand that insurance companies have had some kind of reception, for example, in situations where these people are being released from prison, for example, first of all, where renting out a flat on the free market may already be quite difficult. And then, indeed, if such a landlord is found, there is obviously some kind of insurance cover developed in which this landlord is also able to act as a catch taker and that is the situation that has been taken into account, that the person who comes from there under certain circumstances may have such a bad background and perhaps a past credit record that it is not possible for him to take care of that insurance cover in today's world. These kinds of solutions would be hoped for and that society would also see to it that if a thing has been adjusted and in life tried to move forward, then there would also be the understanding that the circumstances of life would not then be such a new road and a new opportunity in life as if it were stuck in this kind of situation, but that it would actually be possible to take care of this insurance cover and in that way to get a person to the side of the apartment as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u124	Mr President! The fact is that today the landlord can also take out this insurance, and I know the big landlords who do this. They will not make this a problem. As we all know, home insurance is one of the cheapest insurance policies in this country, a few tens a year. But for some, it's too much. I explained this fall: I had a couple of guys in it who needed a place to live. I called all the insurance companies through, and everyone refused to give home insurance because both of these guys had a credit card. It's just a situation. If it hadn't found one of those landlords... When the landlord was told that this was the case, that no home insurance was available, the landlord was surprised to hear that he could take out the liability insurance, then it would be divided into the following tenancy rates — in which case it did not become over-manageable, five per month. These are these things where we talk a lot about things, but we do not always want to find the means to deal with them. Indeed, it must be said that here we went through that law with a couple of people and with our legal officer properly, how we can get on both sides of this, and that it is not going to go so far as to abuse that private company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u125	Mr President! In the last period, I took the same type of legal initiative, which also aimed at home insurance being a privileged insurance policy in the same way as, for example, an electricity contract, which must be obtained despite the fact that the credit information is not in order. This season I have not renewed this motion because I was in the impression that, in any case, the main landlords to whom the person who lost his credit information ends up are these big landlords, who have a lot of housing and have the resources to use them. For example, in Helsinki it is very difficult to obtain a rental dwelling for a person without credit information from the private sector because there is so much demand and they are almost rental dwellings in the City of Helsinki, which can be reached. Is there really such a verifiable problem here that uncredited people have access to housing in the private sector by the way, but then there is no possibility that this home insurance will become an obstacle? I myself have been under the impression that it is those big landlords who are focusing on getting a flat.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u126	Mr President! Indeed, it is true that those large landlords, not all of them, are now increasingly taking out this home insurance on behalf of the resident. But when we live outside Helsinki, we live in smaller cities where there are no large landlords and where there are very many private landlords, private landlords would be happy to give their apartments, because often, then, these tenants are also very secure landlords, because their rent is taken care of by someone other than themselves — in very many cases — but then they fail to receive the home insurance. This is the problem. It is a great thing if it is already in Helsinki that the landlords here take out that insurance on behalf of the person. But when we cannot oblige it, I would really like to see it taken to the side of the insurance company granting it insurance in these cases as well. We have a lot of such little shrouds that accumulates on the part of many marginalised people or, without its own fault, on the part of people who have fallen into this misery — which piles up on top — and then becomes the great mountain that cannot be overcome and which is described, unfortunately, by our grim suicide rates.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u127	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u128	Mr President! According to Article 14(3) of the Aliens Act, a foreigner may be removed from the country if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that he is selling sexual services. On the basis of this section, some dozens of people are repatriated from Finland each year. The bill proposes that the text be deleted. The sale of sexual services is not a crime in Finland. Among other things, the national human trafficking rapporteur, Amnesty Finland, the Association of Women's Affairs Union and Pro-tukipiste have criticised the provision because of its negative human rights implications. The threat of proselytism prevents a third-country national who has experienced violence from reporting a crime, and the victim of trafficking in human beings may be turned from the country instead of being protected. For example, in January-September this year, none of the 13 victims of human trafficking identified by Pro-tukipiste as a viable alternative to the protection offered by our system. Of course, for everyone, this was not a risk of conversion, but it is a clearly identified problem in our protection system. There are also indications that the provision not only exposes violence and abuse but also encourages them. Dangerous prostitution clients know exactly how to look for third-country nationals because they know they cannot resort to the police. The threat of conversion also increases the threshold for other public authorities to seek medical treatment, for example. Mr President! The proselytism referred to in the Aliens Act does not require a certified sale of sexual services, but only doubts about the intention are sufficient. Such suspicion can be justified by, for example, clothing, sex toys and contraceptives found in the luggage of a third-country national seeking to enter Finland. In this way, it is possible to use this provision to a greater extent than the purpose of the legislator in order to prevent the entry of any person who is sexually active, usually a woman. As a result of the stigma of prostitution, it is difficult to question the decision to convert by appeal and the legal protection of the victims is weak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u129	Madam President! I would have asked Mr Kontula: I understand, however, that in the programme to combat trafficking in human beings, if he wants to work together to bring these traffickers to account, then there will be an explicit right to protection, and then the threat of expulsion will be removed from him, and, of course, there will be measures to protect his identity and to start the prosecution process. I know that there are hardly any of these cases of trafficking in human beings that have been completed in Finland, and then, in general, the person may have left the country at the point when things should have actually gone into legal proceedings. But I would have liked to ask Mr Kontul whether he has taken note of the fact that, at the moment, we have the possibility that, if the victim of trafficking in human beings specifically wants to cooperate with the authority, then he will be given all that protection, because it is important that human traffickers are specifically held accountable in these situations and also, for example, international crime chains,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u130	Mr President! Linking protection to criminal investigations is quite problematic in itself and has recently been criticised by the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman. For example, if a person has a heart attack, we will not condition the medical treatment he receives in the event of a criminal report, let alone a crime as serious as that involved in trafficking in human beings. This connection in itself is one of the key factors that causes our protection system to be unable to fulfil its mission, but the problem is that access to the protection system requires that events be investigated specifically in the form of trafficking in human beings. The nature of trafficking in human beings is such that the documentation relating to it often accumulates only during a long investigation. Often people are traumatized in such a way that they may not be able to tell the whole story or produce documents from the very beginning that would enable a pre-trial investigation to be initiated under the name of human trafficking. If a pre-trial investigation is initiated with another name that may be entirely relevant from the police point of view, because they want to use a title that they can also prove in court, it will prevent this person from entering the protection system even if, in fact, all the authorities agree that this is probably a human trafficking issue. In other words, it may be that everyone in Finland who is familiar with the matter agrees that we have a human trafficking case at hand, but since the investigation is not capable of providing sufficient documentation that is legally sustainable, a person cannot be offered a place in the protection system. The third problem, which relates to this, is that many people themselves may be reluctant to cooperate with the police and other judicial authorities because they fear, for example, for their loved ones in the country of origin. In any case, these fears and inhibitions will not be reduced by the fact that there is a very high risk that instead of you getting protection, which is possibly what you are offering, it might as well happen that someone else will be chosen as a pre-trial title or someone else will later be changed to remove you from the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u131	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u132	Madam President! This bill is a parallel legislative initiative for the government's proposal on housing-based social security in cross-border situations. For the Christian Democrats, this bill is very important and close and is linked to the history of the party in such a way that, during the time of the Christian League, the Minister for Development, Mr Kankaanniemi, was in the process of making legislation which originally allowed those who worked in development and missionary cooperation not to return to their country of origin during these periods to ensure that they and their children, for example, remain in Finnish social security. There was a period of severe recession, that is, the dramatic years of the 1990s, and, of course, as an anecdote, it can now be said that they were the years when, due to the severe decline in GDP, Finland then achieved its 0.7% development objective, but, as we know, the causes were worrying for the domestic economy. In any event, at that time, this legislation came into being, and this has already been in danger of slipping into what the government's proposal, I hope, has not been very purposeful to aim at, but we hope that this time again it will be less of a slip. When the debate took place on this actual government proposal here, it seemed that Minister Mattila, for example, was quite out of it, so to speak. I still had a conversation with him after that referral, and he said that they understood that after the first contact with Finland, The Missionary Society did not make much contact with the mission and development organisations; this would have been in some way in order, and he did listen to the rush of speeches that came from the Christian Democratic Group in this Chamber, and I think the representative The Kankaanniemi will also take the floor on this matter. So it would be extremely important that this point in this legislation should not be changed as proposed by the government, because it means returning to those old problems for people in broadcasting and development, so that they then have to return to Finland from time to time — on the basis of this government's proposal every five years — in order to maintain their social security status in Finland. This means that when you have to come to Finland for a short period of time, some kind of temporary work that may be very difficult to obtain for a short period of time, or it means that these people have to fall into Finland's social security system, and this is quite wrong, which means that you have to become fully covered by Finnish social security in order to remain in Finland's social security and then be able to continue living abroad. This is of great importance because people in missions and development work go for long periods of time, usually they need to learn the culture and language of the country, and one might say that is there a better way to export our Finnish skills and especially our education skills, which many times are strongly linked to these missions and development tasks, including health care skills, than these people who are able to operate in the country where they are posted. Of course, it must be borne in mind that children will be born in these families, too, who hopefully will be returnees to Finland and then may be building Finnish society with their tax money. The child allowance for these children is currently about 400,000 a year. These would all be cut off. In other words, the sum in the state budget is minimally small but certainly very significant for these families. For example, it is expensive to give birth in hospitals in certain countries, and many developing countries are forced to seek a private hospital, where a safe birth can then be guaranteed. Childbirth, which is not a disease, as we all know, is not usually included in such so-called foreign insurance, such as would be an alternative in these situations. These foreign insurance policies, without the background to Finland's housing-based social security, would result in a significant increase in these contributions. In addition to this, broadcasting and development organisations often take out additional insurance from a private insurance company, but when private insurance companies know that there is a background for being part of Finnish social security, those contributions have been reasonable. Without it, these payments will rise significantly, which is once again out of the real money that is being spent on broadcasting and development cooperation. In that sense, we must hope that the committee will still be able to influence this issue. I am therefore grateful to Parliament's officials for bringing this matter to the debate this week, because last week, when this referral debate was held on this legislation, those consultations will probably start very quickly in the committees. That, as I recall, was the subject of an opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Perhaps there is congestion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, knowing that it gives a little flexibility with regard to the timetable. The second committee on which the opinion was requested was, I think, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. So these statements are, of course, awaited. I therefore hope that those representatives who work there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will now ask for a wide-ranging consultation of these organisations involved in development and missionary work, such as the Mission Society and Fida, who, as Finnish organisations, will probably have the greatest interests. Indeed, the Minister here said that there has been no further contact here. However, these organisations are small in that sense and their focus is on the actual work that they do not systematically follow the legislative changes and what comes out of these government proposals, not to mention if there is something inside the legislation that has not actually been the cause of the change in legislation, but has, as it were, come in side by side. That is why these organisations have been very slow and poorly awakened to this issue, and these contacts, whatever came to Parliament, came at the point when the time had run out for a statement. As a result, it may have been created such an image that the matter was as if accepted. Not at all, but it could actually be said that the debate in the press of these organisations and their communities of background on this subject has only just begun and the amazement has been great. The question has been asked whether the government has actually intended to leave this particular issue to undermine the social protection of broadcasters and development workers in this way, while at the same time it is known that this actual proposal, which is being addressed by this, is again of the kind that it specifically facilitates people's access to Finnish social security. In other words, at the same time as we have Finnish citizens who go abroad for demanding missions and development cooperation missions, we are ready to kick out of Finland's social security, and then we want to make it even easier for those who come here for perhaps reasonably short-term jobs to come to Finland's social security. We know that this is also linked to the issue of theexportation of social security, which is not quite simple, but which should always bear in mind that it is important for a worker to be covered by the social security system of a country, but that it cannot be thought that it — well, perhaps ‘shopping’ is a short word — is, however, coordinated to ensure that it is considered that the best social security benefits are available at any given time. This should by no means be like an extension of the salary, so it can be thought that even if you come to Finland as a posted worker with a slightly lower wage level, but then it is said that at the same time home care allowance, child benefit and the like will be exported. If we look at the whole of this Brexit debate and its implementation, after all, these situations were largely behind the debate that led to this Brexit in Great Britain. And, above all, it can be said that this kind of housing-based social security within the European Union is something that, in many countries, has insurance-based social security, it is true to say that there are situations in which there are, even a certain lack of legal understanding and disproportionateness. There are not so many of these countries in the European Union at the moment: we have Sweden, we have Finland, Denmark, which has opt-out in these cases itself, and then Great Britain and Ireland. And now Britain has made its Brexit. So, in this situation, one might say that this is a small matter, as it were, but it is linked to a much wider issue. All we have to do now is hope that at least this part of the issue of social security for broadcasters and development workers will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u133	Mr President! The Finns have the hope that there will be some other changes to this law. As Mrs Essayah said in her speech, this is indeed a proposal to reduce the security of Finns abroad, and then, again, this four-month requirement of working will be removed from those who come into the country. And this, of course, is one additional pull factor here in our small yet prosperous Finland, and yet here in Parliament we should be primarily a lobbying machine for Finland and Finns. Representative Essayah told about this history and how the Kangasniemi, a representative of the People's Party of Finland, has taken care of this. He is a very wise and experienced person, and I thank him for having this sort of thing taken care of, which is now leaving [Sari Essayah’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u134	Mr President! It is strange, however, that in this country there seems to be a constant lack of justice, who does not acquire it — it just seems to be standing. This bill presented by Mrs Essayah is very welcome, but this is not the case, I would say, small. This is a much wider issue. This involves, among other things, border barriers, which are common Nordic. It affects whether child supplements, social security, whether a child is born, married to a citizen of another country, studying in a foreign country, visiting a country, whether the child is born in Norway, Sweden, Finland or Iceland. So everything affects everything, and border barriers partially prevent, sometimes even drop a person between such things that nothing is available. Well, we now have a combined permit directive implemented here, which guarantees social security for workers posted from third countries in Finland, and I think it says that a person is considered to be resident in Finland even if he does not reside in Finland. We have housing-based social security, which, in other words, guarantees a person social security through the Single Authorisation Directive when a person comes from third countries as a posted worker. But if a person is sent here to third countries as an employee and then cut off social security, that is inconceivable. I think it is quite clear here that if the conditions are maintained that a person is sent by a Finnish employer or hired by a Finnish employer, then he is, but he must have left Finland. Of course, it is not enough that a person goes on the payroll of a Finnish employer, because then he can be Chinese or Danish or Norwegian, but must also, of course, be a Finnish citizen who goes to work. These are not so unambiguous. In my opinion, it is also worth looking at and seeing, through such equal treatment, that legislation would not be — whether the door is open outwards or inwards — so unfair even for the citizens of their own country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u135	Madam President! This representative Essayah's bill sounds all right, and once I've read this through, it's a very good story. In my opinion, this does not just apply to these missionaries and development workers. I had a conversation with my colleague, Mr Raatikainen: when we were living in this old time of law, he was sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the world and he was then informed that he is no longer in the field of Finnish social security. I find this rather confusing that there has been such a law in time. And I really hope that we are not going back in the direction that if you are sent by the Finnish Ministry or sent by any employer, then at that point this will be cut off. And in our opinion, as far as this government proposal is concerned, it will now facilitate access to Finnish social security. On the contrary, I believe that it should be tightened up this way and then made easier on the other hand than what the government is now proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u136	Madam President! In that speech, I forgot to say that Finland does, of course, have these so-called bilateral social security agreements with some third countries. This means that, in most cases, Finnish companies have been operating abroad. For example, during the Nokia boom, some bilateral social security agreements of this kind were born in China, India. These bilateral social security agreements will then take precedence over this legislation. But why these missionaries and development partners are most often those who are now suffering in this matter is precisely because these bilateral agreements rarely exist with African countries — most African countries — or with Asian countries where these people mainly work, not so much in these so-called developing countries, but indeed in those countries where Finland does not have this type of contractual relationship. That is why this is particularly important, even with that in mind. Here Mr Ronkainen raised this position, which is the position of posted workers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then, for example, in my own case, I know that at some point the position of Finnish meps was rather special. Finland was very happy to throw away Finnish social security, but at the same time it was quite convinced that taxes should be paid to Finland. Personally, I believe that taxes must be paid to Finland, because we are a Finnish person, could you say, sent by democracy in the European Union, but it seemed strange that it would then be considered as a sideshow that Finnish social security is a waste of time? For example, it caused some special situations during the last period, when it was just these, that, for example, the time for giving birth to a family member came and then it was necessary to see who was paying if the time was not covered by Finnish social security and these matters were no longer covered by Finnish social security. From there very quickly, one might say, even reasonably high bills could have come from these local hospitals. And, of course, this is the case in all other situations, but here in particular these things became concrete. This issue of the single permit, which Mr Tolppanen mentioned here, concerns precisely these third countries, but then this legislation on this intra-EU migration. It is, of course, worth noting that this is precisely the transition within the EU and that is the lifting of its four-month limit, and that makes it a problem, then, how can this be monitored? To date, however, it has also been required that there should be sufficient income for a person who moves from one EU country to another, because it has been thought that even in the EU it is not possible to leave it to another country to live on social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u137	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal, to which Mr Essayah's bill relates, would unnecessarily undermine the role of broadcasters and development partners. And it has been said here that Mr Kankaanniemi at the time, which is now a representative of the Finns, at the time by the Christian mandate, took this matter well forward, and it is now quite inconceivable that this sensible law in itself should be amended in this regard. But, as Mr Meri has said well before, this government proposal also includes the bill that would remove the four-month requirement for foreign workers to receive social assistance so far. If this original government proposal were implemented, a foreign worker who earns at least the basic daily allowance would also be entitled to housing benefits, such as child benefit and health insurance, even for a short period of work. Unfortunately, this good and well-founded bill by Mrs Essayah as such has not taken a position on this issue. But let us say once again in this context that the Finns of Peru think that the change in law proposed by the government is likely to lead towards the creation of a cheap labour market, and we cannot therefore support the government's proposal in that respect either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u138	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. Budgetary initiatives will be sent to the Committee on Budgets. As the basis for payments to the European Union is laid down in the Council Decision on EU own resources (2007/436/EC)
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u139	The debate is now under way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I wasn't sure you'd end this conversation. — I was looking at the Minutes of Parliament and I was looking at Protocol 134/2010 and also Protocol 132/2010. These have involved the fact that Mr Vistbacka, supported by Mr Pirkko Ruohonen-Lerner, has proposed a reduction of 74 million in the contributions to the United Nations contribution, and these discussions have raised similar arguments, albeit at a later stage. Here in Protocol 134/2010 it is clear that this budget initiative, which was then number 1077, has been sent to the Committee on Finance and has returned from there to Parliament, so it has been questioned whether such a proposal, a budget initiative, can be made at all because this is based on these international binding agreements. At that time, the President has stated that the restrictions on the right of representation should be interpreted in a particularly narrow manner and that there is no obstacle to it being put to the vote. I would therefore like to stress that this had been the case in the Committee on Budgets. That is why I propose that this budget initiative 310/2018 be sent to the Committee on Finance for a proper examination of the initiative. They can then, in their report, see how they deal with it. This is my show. [President PaulaRisikko : Hereinafter I have a problem that I asked that‘the procedure of the President should be adopted’,as you have said at that stage,that you will. And this kind of performance can't be made here. Now all you can do is challenge the President's procedure. And actually, if you're being specific, it's gone, too. But because I understand that the representative may not have known that it should have been done in that ‘procedural’ section before the debate is started,however,it has allowed it to continue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u141	This is not the kind of proposal you can make, but only you can suggest that you do not approve of this procedure, and in that case this will be sent to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u142	Mr President! This procedure is, of course, somewhat unclear now, but I support the proposal made by Mrs Mere that budget initiative 310/2018 vp should be considered, whether directly through the referral to the Committee on Finance or by any other route — how it is interpreted here. One of the reasons is that, in my view, the restriction of the right of initiative of representatives should be considered particularly narrowly, and I would stress in particular that at this stage it is not a matter of final adoption of this budget initiative, but of sending it to the committee for further evaluation, so that the criteria for considering the budget initiative in derogation from other budget initiatives should, I believe, be particularly important. In other words, I would like to say that I am in favour of this motion by Mrs Meren.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u143	If we are to be precise, I would not have to accept this and start again, but since I want to cooperate with you, let us start again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u144	Mr President! I don't want to do that. I do not wish to call into question the President's procedure. Of course, I would have liked the President to have looked at these earlier solutions and felt that he could trust and send it to the Committee on Finance. I do not know whether this matter has been discussed in the Council of Presidents. In the case I mentioned earlier, Protocol 134/2010 and Protocol 132/2010, it was precisely a similar situation when the budget initiative went to the Committee on Budgets and then came back to Parliament alongside the report and was even put to the vote. Of course, I find it a little strange that there are variations. However, I would point out that, according to the minutes of the plenary session of 24 October 2011, Mr Ruohonen-Lerner's initiative 429 has not been sent to the Committee on Finance. There is a bit of an inconsistency here. It's very confusing, though.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u145	Mr President! As a representative The sea above, I would also like to say for myself that it is not my intention to send the matter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, I would ask the President to consider this procedure on the basis of these arguments that we have put forward, that this budget initiative, signed by Mrs Meren and the other Finns, could also be sent to the Committee on Finance, as has been the case in some similar situations in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u146	Now that there is no proposal that the procedure should not be adopted, I would say that the procedure has been adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u147	Madam President! There are many different budget initiatives here, and I can say that my own budget initiatives are partly those based on the alternative budget of the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, then there are some that are so-called personal budget initiatives, and then the budget initiatives taken jointly by the representatives of Savo-Karjala, and there is also one that has had this kind of sympathy for Savonlinna in Eastern Finland. In that case, I will refer to this budget initiative 110, which is probably very much the same from many groups and individual representatives. In other words, we must hope that the Savonlinna region in this situation, in which the government, partly by its own decisions and, of course, the public actors, the university, have been in the process of undermining the vitality of the region, will be able to secure such special funding. But just a few of these budget initiatives — even though we are actually having an alternative budget debate in the middle of November: I would like to say that for Christian Democrats, the situation of families with children is important, and many families, especially those who study, are those who live below the poverty line. The combination of family and study needs to be made easier, and so we would double the share of care between the parents who are studying to 150 euros a month. Today we have just heard these alarming news about how Finland’s birth rate has once again reached a new negative level, i.e. we are at the readings that have last been there a hundred years ago. Now, senior politics. It is important for us not only to make a living but also to provide adequate services. In fact, I would also mention an increase in the level of support for informal care. And in order to ensure the quality of care for the elderly and to improve supervision, the Christian Democrats have also proposed the creation of a post for the Ombudsman for the Elderly. The pharmaceutical reimbursement system should be reformed so as to allow the spending burden at the beginning of the year to be spread over a number of months, and above all this ceiling should be reduced, since the financial situation of most seniors is a burden of pharmaceutical expenditure. Then perhaps I should like to mention here, in terms of security, that the fight against the shadow economy would be one that will also generate more income for society, and that is to say that investing in it in its own way will also bring that income back to society at a certain point. And of course, there is investing in education and knowledge. Keeping group sizes small enough in schools and kindergartens is important. Vocational schools also need more investment. We've read some disturbing news about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u148	Mr President! Of course, we, too, are going to deal more extensively with the issue of alternative budgets, but I would like to say that the Finns of Peru have taken a number of group initiatives, and that reminds me that we also have a bill on the establishment of an Ombudsman for the Elderly. Now that the Christian Democrats also seem to have it well on the table, I hope they will support this bill when it comes to it. We have certain types of economic and economic initiatives for the management of employment and mobility and migration costs, which would promote people's mobility and improve their ability to live and work in two different localities. For housing costs, we have a budget initiative, unlike the government. We are proposing a tax increase for heating fuels to be withdrawn, which directly affects housing costs. We also propose reductions in income tax, particularly on average income, in order to improve demand and to leave more money in the hands of employees. One really new thing I noticed when this was a citizens' initiative to reduce inheritance tax: We also have inheritance taxation in connection with these budgetary initiatives. After all, there we have a significant improvement in the status and residence of a widow and a calming down of her widowhood from inheritance taxes. That bill is still there to sign until tomorrow afternoon. I hope that there will be a lot of signatures, at least at the time of the debate in the Chamber, and I am now looking forward to it being signed by the people who supported this at the time in the debate. We also have a lot of business for pensioners. After all, the Finns of Peru have long been proposing the removal of EUR 50's ownership of pharmaceutical responsibilities, among other things. Then we still have an allowance for food aid. I therefore hope that the Committee on Budgets will deal with this carefully. This is now going away all the time, as we heard during last Thursday's Question Time, how Mrs Niikko said that it was missed last autumn when the Finns of Finland left the government. This was very worrying news. In addition, I have applied to Hyvinkää for small amounts of money for road projects. I know that they are not always very successful, but I really hope that sometimes these projects of representatives will also move forward. Animal rights are also close to my heart, as I have told you. For this reason, I have applied to the Finnish Horse Federation for money for the preservation of the Finnish horse population and also for the training of aid dogs for sick people. After all, an assistant dog is an instrument that helps a sick person to move and receive medicines. This, too, is one of those things that can easily be forgotten. But let's talk more about these when the alternative budgets come in.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u149	Madam Speaker! Mr Essayah has already gone over our budget initiatives in some detail. To sum up, it is a real option, as the alternative budget should be. In general, politics says that there is no alternative to what the government is proposing. If the size of the state budget is 55 billion next year, the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats will differ by about 1.4% — I would say it is a matter of will. There are good proposals: we are proposing additional spending of just over EUR 800 million, but by the same token we are able to show savings or increases in income actually more than we have additional expenditure, which means that our alternative budget would leave almost EUR 7 million more in the state treasury than the government proposal. I would like to raise a few points about what Mr Essayah also mentioned: we would invest around EUR 150 million in families with children and EUR 250 million in older people. By this we want to show that there are alternatives to a government proposal. But as always, the Christian Democrats are pursuing a responsible and constructive policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-25-ps-107.u150	Madam President! It is very easy to agree with what Mr Östman has said here and indeed to point out that our alternative budget is only about EUR 800 million in budgetary changes and yet it is quite clear that these are capable of making targeted changes to the lives and the quality of life of certain groups of people, which are important, and in that sense I look forward to having this alternative budget as a whole to discuss and then hear the alternatives of all other opposition groups. On these own budget initiatives, which are also linked to the Group's alternative budget, I would like to raise the environmental and climate-related proposals: In other words, by investing, for example, in energy education and research cooperation, new innovations will certainly be created which will improve our country's energy self-sufficiency and, at the same time, create new export opportunities. We are putting forward additional investments in public transport purchasing services. Public transport, particularly outside the capital region, is important both for the economy and for the environment. Then, too, we have made considerable efforts to investigate indoor air problems and solve these issues. There are also energy subsidies for energy renovations in small houses. This is a situation which still particularly affects the elderly, who many times live in these old houses from the 50s to the 60s, and in these situations will certainly help to curb the cost of housing and at the same time support energy saving. On the budget initiatives in my name, I would like to mention this, which was also last year, namely ViaDia ry, which is doing an extremely important job in the reintegration of prisoners and released prisoners. Here, I think, we discussed Mr Tolppanen's bill and the very way in which, for example, these people who have lost their credit records get to their own apartment. ViaDia is this kind of free church-based organization that does extremely good and important work and offers support to those people who most often, when leaving that prison gates, is really that plastic bag in the hand and hardly any other help exists. Such organizations then come to their aid and support its integration into society. To this, if the investments are those that pay themselves back: if we can break the cycle of crime, if we can restore a person to social viability, it is certainly an economic investment that makes sense. A further budget initiative 105, which would like to see an increase in the level of equality in physical activity. Today, too, we have families who cannot afford to support a child’s exercise activity. The government has also had a proposal to support at least one hobby for every child, and I would particularly like to focus this on sports activities.
