ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 5/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u2	Mr President! This is a law on the Meteorological Institute, and the legal arguments say that this is a technical change, but I found it very interesting to follow the drafting of this law because it seemed that it was also a matter of technology. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Mr President! After all, the Finnish Meteorological Institute is responsible for producing weather and research data, conditions information for the use of citizens, businesses, agriculture, air, land and aviation transport and also for the use of emergency services. This is therefore a very important public authority which is concerned with the safety and functioning of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u3	Madam President! After all, there is a lot of technical and up-to-date needs in this law, and the committee had been very unanimous in its own concise report on their need, and they must be put into effect, but I would perhaps like to extend the debate a little to how important the Finnish Meteorological Institute is and how world-class top-level research is being carried out in that unit. If you think of Finnish atmospheric research, it is at the top of the world not only in climate change research but above all in Arctic research and how you can also make commercial applications with Finnish technology. We have not generally been the most famous countries in the world in terms of space technology or our national contributions, but all that our modern instruments — telephones, digital services — use, to a very large extent, is based on the models that have been studied at the Sodankylä Värriö Research Institute. In the middle of a small Lappish village is a world-class physics research unit, where international experts, academics, are always sought out. This is a very important issue. Not only will the law change to this become a need for updating, so that the Finnish Meteorological Institute is able to be a modern unit and also to produce commercially successful applications in cooperation with companies. This also relates to the Presidency of the Finnish Arctic Council in that the Finnish Meteorological Institute is one of the key research installations that have been placed at the centre of our entire national Arctic Presidency, and they have done very groundbreaking work on how to respond not only to climate change but also to bring services to where they may be concentrated because of long distances. New technology is able to bring them back, and the Meteorological Institute is central to it and therefore a change of law is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u4	Madam President! The Finnish Meteorological Institute is also an internationally recognised service and research institute and produces observations and research data for public administration sectors, industry and citizens' needs, and above all it is good for the safety of society: if we consider, for example, our electricity grid and changing weather conditions, it is important that this Meteorological Institute's activities and also long-term information on climate change preparedness are important. In committee, we did also raise this issue of incorporation, and yes, we also had the will to ensure that such an institution which is doing such an important social activity is not necessarily a condition of incorporation and should certainly not go to it. 63% of the funding for this facility comes from state budget funding, and now EU funding has been used, and in the Committee on Transport and Communications we see a very important role for the Meteorological Institute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u5	Madam President! Sometimes it is nice to talk in Parliament about things that may not be so easy to argue about, that is, the weather. The Finnish Meteorological Institute has a long and well-known history and, in fact, a very important role in the future. Hereinafter, the representative: My corner highlighted this Arctic expertise, where in fact we have extraordinarily much to offer from this point of view, but above all we also have a lot to gain. That is why we should be as involved as much as possible in this type of project, such as research in the Arctic region and its development. The Finnish Meteorological Institute, as mentioned above, is heavily state-funded, but it must also seek closer cooperation with the private side. This is where Mr Alatalo raised the issue of the EU, but we also have a lot of private know-how, which is groundbreaking in cutting-edge technology, and I personally think it is important that this cooperation be further deepened in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u6	Madam President! In fact, talking about the weather is absolutely central to the traditional Finnish culture. Often when two strangers or familiar customs are asked questions related to the weather. In this respect, the Finnish Meteorological Institute represents an excellent organisation that provides all of us citizens, businesses, organisations, up to the defence of the country, with the services that are needed, i.e. ordinary weather services, which are nevertheless very relevant. Today's technology makes it possible to move forward. We can very closely monitor what happens on a point-by-point basis, on an area-by-region basis, an hour by hour in terms of weather. It's a service for all of us. Yes, thanks go to the Finnish Meteorological Institute, which has been able to make a very significant contribution to its own development. When the Transport Section of the Finance Committee has also been able to monitor the development of the Meteorological Institute and also see how the radar network can be covered as comprehensive as possible throughout Finland, it is one part of this work, which naturally is done by the organisation concerned. There are still a number of shortcomings, we need clarification, we need more efficiency, so that, for example, it is not just for holidaymakers in the summer but, above all, for important agriculture that we can get the data on whether there will be a pot tomorrow or what tomorrow's weather will be so that we do not have to discuss it afterwards. In particular, I would like to stress that in the case of the Finnish Meteorological Institute, research activities have been made very significant: in 2016, up to 60% of research and development activities are outside funding. This is a good example of how a state organic can operate in both the international and the national environment, and then get capital for the development of its own activities for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u7	Madam President! I must say to Mr Kulmun that the short hymn is beautiful. At this point it can be said that the government has tried to do good, but this time it was the top of the line that this statement by the committee is certainly at that very heart. The experts were consulted and said precisely these things, which have been mentioned here. This external funding of 60% for research and development reflects precisely the level of know-how and international reliability that the Finnish Meteorological Institute has and makes it possible for the Finnish Meteorological Institute to be a significant factor in these development and research projects on a global scale. Its long traditions — and the fact that we generally have such an institution — are particularly good, and when this incorporation was ignored with fairly clear opinions — no one particularly wanted to bring it up. With the exception of the Competition and Consumer Authority, I welcome this report and the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u8	Mr President! I would ask you to join the group that supports this proposal, the work of the committee, and to say that the Meteorological Institute is indeed one of our top institutions and is important not only in this day-to-day weather, which is what we are all interested in, but also then in scientific research. Finland still has the opportunity to profile its Arctic expertise. We have not done enough in this area at all. One can say that the world is already looking at us because of our location and asking how our expertise is available when it comes to the whole Arctic region, and this can be one really big area where we could do more. The great thing is that the committee as a whole has been able to agree that this can be done as a public task. By the way, I have drawn attention to the fact that this government is at a very high speed when it privatises a wide range of services. We have talked about social welfare and health here many times, and others are coming. It is wonderful to say that the committee was unanimous in this, that this is considered a basic public task and that it is possible to have a high level of expertise for the benefit of Finland as a whole and hopefully also for the benefit of science and research in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u9	Madam President! I also believe that the Meteorological Institute is very important. It is a good thing that the committee has taken this line and has produced its report, and I am sure we all know the challenge we face with regard to climate change and issues like this, and in this respect, as has been said here, we really have the opportunity to be a pioneer here and to have important, valuable data for the future too — security factors, all this, is of great importance. President! For my part, too, I am pleased that the line has been drawn here that this can be public work. I drew attention to what Mr Alatalo said in his own speech, for example, that the Finnish Meteorological Institute is doing such important social work that it was not to be incorporated. This is an important phrase, but that is precisely why I too have sometimes been a little up-dating about the government's privatization and incorporation rage that has been rampant here throughout the parliamentary term, and it was, of course, to be welcomed that the whole committee and the whole Parliament unanimously see that this is so important that it should not be incorporated. Of course, in this respect, I would also like to be patient with a number of other government projects, where it sometimes feels that the whole of Finland is going to be traded and incorporated and privatised, i.e. this is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u10	Mr President! It is easy to take part in this debate because the Finnish Meteorological Institute is a highly valued service and research institution, both nationally and internationally, and every part of the public sector makes use of these services provided by the Finnish Meteorological Institute, which is also used by the business community, but also by all of us citizens when we consider that the weather is now coming. After all, this research activity will be emphasised in the future when we consider how we prepare for this climate change in Finland too, and in this respect the Finnish Meteorological Institute and its research will play a very important role. It is worth appreciating and hoping that we will be able to secure the entire operation of this facility so that it can do the impressive work. The Finnish Meteorological Institute also plays a major role in the security of society and its related services. I also noted that this very concise report by the committee has well gone through the funding of the Meteorological Institute, and when the majority of it really is being paid for by the public authorities, it has also been delighted to have received funding from outside for research in particular and to have obtained EU funding, and I am sure that many other public institutions could learn little from this, in what way the European Union can also be repatriated. And perhaps on the last point, it is easy to agree with the comments that it is great that, in this matter, the enormity of the incorporation of the government has not moved forward, but that even in the government parties, reason has prevailed that these activities can still be produced in public, that not everything needs to be put on the market and privatised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u11	Madam President! When we consider the role of the Meteorological Institute in a normal debate, this is what often comes before us, as Mr Heinonen said, that we will not be divided about the weather, but people really think that the Meteorological Institute is only measuring whether it rains a little tomorrow or a lot. Here, in previous speeches, it has become clear how much important work the Finnish Meteorological Institute is doing. I took a national defence course, and many asked me how you spent three weeks discussing the military, and I said that defence also involves combating climate change, for which the Finnish Meteorological Institute is doing a huge amount of research. It is one of the issues people sometimes argue about: whether climate change exists, whether there has been warming, what has happened, and what these changes mean. Then we need exactly this kind of objective research information, because we can always argue just no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. I am also pleased that this will remain a public activity, and it will also give credibility to that research work and its permanence and long-term sustainability. As a matter of fact, I would also like to point out that, in terms of road safety, air traffic, the movement of goods and people, it is of paramount importance to know the future weather, the flight decks and so on, and these are also predicted for people and businesses to know. This is indeed such a thing that you often think only that there is little more to be done there, but this is a tremendously good job, and I recommend everyone to get to know the Meteorological Institute, what they do. There is also a space and remote sensing centre and a marine science programme. You might want to take a look at this wide-ranging programme. And I'd say what I've said before, in honor of Friday,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u12	Mr President! The first thing I have to say to Mr Mere and Mr Viitanen is that it does not mean 'privatisation'. These are two completely different things, and that is not what we were all talking about here, but what we are talking about here is the Meteorological Institute, and fortunately we are all proud of at the same time. After all, it was time to correct this law when it was already 50 years old — 50 years, as a person, it is not old yet. That's it. All my life, 50 years of living in my village of Sodankylä, I have been able to observe the significant role played by the Meteorological Institute in Sodankylä and see how much scientific research has been done and how much it has meant to the environment, of course, as an impact on the local environment, but above all, in terms of the fact that, once you have studied really scientific information there, it does not matter if you do it where it is done, but that high level of knowledge is the most important thing. Now I have to say thank you to this House that resources have been allocated to this. There we have different kinds of research and reception facilities that have been able to carry out this important, international top-level research. Hopefully, we will continue to be prepared to invest in this important research, because the last time I went there about a month ago, I was told what kind of cooperation there was with the various international satellites. In other words, satellite data will be received there and, for example, it will also be possible to study information on Siberian soil, which was wonderful that I was given information on how to analyse all this important information there. In other words, all these Arctic studies, Aurora, road transport projects, have made tremendous progress thanks to the work of the Finnish Meteorological Institute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u13	Mr President! This is indeed a question of reforming and fundamental legislation on the Meteorological Institute, and this is also one of the government's proposals to be able to reform the legislation. This law describes the functions of the Meteorological Institute, the powers of the Director-General and the Rules of Procedure, and, as Mrs Maijala said, the previous law has been in force for decades and there was a need for legislative reform. What, then, is the role of the Meteorological Institute with this new legislation? The Finnish Meteorological Institute produces day and night weather and conditions information and forecasts for the use of citizens, business, agriculture, agriculture, land, sea and air transport and also for the needs of society. The institution supports rescue and rescue operations and national defence, as has already been mentioned in Mrs Mere's speech, but also the Air Force in particular. The Finnish Meteorological Institute supports society’s preparedness for dangerous weather conditions and their changes by issuing warnings and communications. As a member of the Arctic Advisory Council itself and as a member of the Finnish delegation to the Arctic Parliament, I have noticed how the study of the Finnish Meteorological Institute — a very diverse and long-term research and also international research — is competent, excellent and also internationally valued, and it is important that the legislation of the Finnish Meteorological Institute is also at the level and up-to-date as it will be. In the end, I would like to thank Juhani Damski, Director General of the Finnish Meteorological Institute. He is conducting a very wide-ranging and social debate and also an international debate during the Arctic Council Presidency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u14	Madam President! I have not yet told you how important it is for this open data, i.e. it is available in such a way as to create an open opportunity for business activities and for the various information users. In that sense, the existence of the Meteorological Institute today is therefore justified in being a terriblely good developer of new data and new innovations. With regard to road transport in particular, it will be seen that we will be in a more real-time knowledge of snowmobiles when our own sensations come into the trucks and then pass through the Finnish Meteorological Institute as an element of road safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u15	Madam President! There has been a distinguished debate here about the importance of the Finnish Meteorological Institute, and I also think it is important. I would, however, like to tell you a little storytage about how we have come to this basic task, from which the Meteorological Institute has started in due course. It has started from that era of Indians and medicine men, when it has been observed how the weather changes. In time, the Indians asked the medicine man how cold winter is coming, and the medicine man replied that all signs suggest that there will be a cold winter, that you should go and collect the trees. Well, by nightfall, the Injuns returned to the camp, asked the medicine man if the trees were sufficient for the cold winter to come. The medicine man said that during the day he has observed the air around him, the trees are not enough, go gather more trees. The Injuns spent a week in the woods collecting wood and coming back to camp. The medicine man in that week wondered that, well, in fact, his observations may not be very accurate but quite reliable. The Injuns asked again whether the trees were enough, the medicine man said it was not enough that the month should probably be collected. During that month the medicine man made accurate observation of what kind of weather is and how it may change, and concluded that he is not really sure what kind of winter is coming. So another medicine man came from the neighbor’s camp and asked the medicine man what you think, what kind of winter is coming, and the medicine man said he doesn’t know, but he has followed the movements of the Indians and they collect a huge number of trees, that apparently it’s going to be a hard winter. This same observation, in my opinion, at the time the need for the Meteorological Institute was based on observing and reacting to the change around it and preparing and telling people that they might be prepared for a cold winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u16	Mr President! The Finnish Meteorological Institute does excellent, remarkable work and serves society as a whole, including that small person. Like cold, I go a little bit in history, but not that far. I myself am the daughter of a farmhouse and grew up there and I remember that in the 60s and 70s my father called directly to the Meteorological Institute when there were no Internet sites and received an answer. When the root plant was cultivated and, among other things, the cucumber, it was important to know whether the frost should go to rain, what the situation is. Today, when we go to the 21st century, the same house exists, the nephew holds space there and has a highland herd. But there's a big festival called Karjurock in July, and now again this auntie, which means I'll be two weeks before Karjurock really close on the website of the Meteorological Institute and see if there's rain coming, what's going on, and then it's good to be prepared. Many citizens, when they go on holiday or are on holiday, see what the situation is. This activity is so important what the Finnish Meteorological Institute does, it is also great to say here that research is being invested in and that it is the best thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u17	Mr President! Yes, there has been such a good-spirited discussion that one could almost say that it has been like a sunny day around an important Meteorological Institute. Many of my fellow Members have referred to the incorporation which was not now on the road and considered this to be a very good solution. However, I think it is important to see that a number of commentators, such as the Confederation of Finnish Industries and the MTK, proposed in the preparation of this law that closer cooperation with the business world should be undertaken and that the Meteorological Institute, for example, should also be obliged to share information on private weather stations. However, it seemed reasonable to me that this was not the way forward, because, above all, it is, of course, a matter of the safety of citizens, businesses, agriculture, transport and emergency authorities that we know what conditions we are operating under. Mr President! I also think it is very important to draw attention to this point, which is why both the preparatory authority for the law, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and the unanimous opinion of the committee also assumes that there should be no start-up. It was precisely the fact that it was seen that, in the context of the incorporation process, it would not be possible to carry out an official function with sufficient security and that it would not be possible independently to distribute to the widest possible extent the independent research data produced by the Meteorological Institute for all of us. In my opinion, this is a very important lesson, given that in society at all we have a lot of agency upheavals going on, that we remember the need for a large public sector to carry out the tasks of the authorities. Mr President! If the President will allow it, then when the medicine man and Mr Karjurock have already been mentioned, perhaps at the end of this debate we can wish everyone a sunny weekend.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u18	Mr President! In the course of this multidisciplinary debate, we threw a perspective on companying and even a frenzy to try to put Finland on the market. Mr President! Indeed, the situation is that during this government the Finnish economy has been able to be improved, in many ways. Of course international developments have an impact, but national measures have also been taken. Finland is not sold; on the contrary, Finns are selling more and more of their products. For example, Nordea's arrival in Finland is not a coincidence. The stability of Finland's economic policy, both the labour market and government policy are trusted. This is a big thing that we should remember. It is very easy here in Parliament to throw, for example, that Finland is being put on the market. I would now like to say to the gallery audience that Finland is not sold anywhere, but hopefully more Finnish products can be sold. It is important for us all to export in order to be able to manage important social and health care services and to keep the country up otherwise. In this regard, it is only necessary to say that it is obviously the case that, when you say something long enough, you start to believe it yourself in the end. This may be true of all of us, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u19	Thank you for these. We have one last point to make here. We've got a big committee on top. Of course, this point can be interrupted, but Mr Viitanen, and then others will assess whether they are still taking the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say that, of course, it is very welcome that it is now being said from the point of view of the main government party that Finland is certainly not being put in a position to sell, but, unfortunately, these acts and speeches have been very market-oriented this season. All you have to do is refer to this famous war, in which the crowds were about to push through the forced takeovers and all this, and the citizens have been very worried and amazed about the line when you are privatized and when you are selling.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-16-ps-24.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
