ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on the Future of Europe, on the basis of the report TuVM 2/2017 vp, on the basis of the report. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on the Future, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 3 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order I am considering, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of reply. The debate on this subject will take place until 4.30 p.m., approximately 2.5 hours. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 4.30 p.m., then we will move on to the next point of the day system, that is, the fourth point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! Framtiden har alltid fascinerat pine grove. Vi vet så lite om framtiden, förutom att vi kommer att tillbringa förhopningsvis en hel del tid i den. Så lyder ett gammalt talesätt. Därför är det också viktigt att försöka påverka denna framtid. Ett let talesätt som är lånat från indianna slår fast att vi inte har ärvt jorden av våra föräldrar lää mycket som vi har den till låns av våra barn. Också det ansvaret ger oss en plikt att försöka påverka framtiden i indiannas anda, exempelvis gällande arbetet för Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u3	Mr President! As the world changes, we Finns can either build our own future or drift along with change. The central parliament group chooses construction. Surviving the transformation of work, working life and the labour market requires the courage of us Finns to renew, to agree and to work together. On the other hand, resisting everything or fomenting confrontations will not move this country forward. Mr President! Finland’s strength has been and is equal education. Also in the future, regardless of the size of the wallet, every child and young person must have equal opportunities to train as far as they have desire and strength. Different levels of education must be available throughout the country. There are at last fewer young unemployed people, but studies show that many boys in particular are at risk of marginalisation. Our parliamentary group believes that no one should be left alone. Young people at risk of exclusion must be assisted, above all by specific measures. Young people need to build more flexible pathways from learning to working life, and education must remain in line with changing tasks. Mental health services are also needed at different levels of school. Mr President! In the future, too, everyone in Finland must have the opportunity to work and to entrepreneurship. The aim of the central parliamentary group is that at least 100,000 unemployed people will be employed during the next parliamentary term. Work must also provide a livelihood that is always more profitable than being sidelined from working life. In addition, it is necessary to be able to endure and experience meaningfulness in working life, to combine work and other life better, and to retire in good health. In the future, more and more Finns will employ themselves. Many work as an employee, sometimes as an entrepreneur or both. For example, creative professionals have long been in this situation. Better conditions must be created for the various forms of work. It must be possible to combine income and social security more flexibly. The Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party is ready for experiments in combining earned income and social security. At the same time, the whole of social security must be made more supportive and simpler. The introduction of the Incomes Register will contribute to these objectives. The contractual society must also be reformed as the world changes. Jobs must be given genuine freedom of agreement by dismantling obstacles to local reconciliation. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure the security of workers and to enable people to make choices suitable for different situations in their lives. By investing in effective vocational rehabilitation, many people now on disability pension can return to work. There is a need for a change of attitude in the workplace and in society at large. Part-time workers, rehabilitation workers, the long-term unemployed, disabled people, immigrants and others with fewer jobs must have the opportunity to build the future of 100-year-old Finland with their own contribution. Keep Finland in the front line of change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u4	Mr President! Too often people are intimidated by the transformation of work, by the change in everything: in the future, the work will end, disintegrate, move to India, there will be zero-hour contracts, digitalisation will take up all the work, artificial intelligence will replace people in five years. However, in the assembly we do not want to see those who are directly raising the problems, but those who really solve the challenges. In Finland, solutions can be found that are positive for Finland. It is only necessary to be genuinely prepared in advance for these changes. At first, you can say it's okay. As also stated in the report, much of the work remains quite as it is today, partly tied to time and place. However, the importance of continuing training is emphasised. For example, the work of an auto mechanic working with a robot at the New Town Car Factory today requires quite different skills than a few years ago. The importance of education will then be emphasised in a completely different way. At the same time, however, there is quite a lot of new work: telework, digital work, well-being work, experience work. In other words, rigid thinking and division between the employed and the unemployed is no longer in any way today. In an increasing number of people, work interfaces are blurred: you are between self-employed, employer, employee, unemployed, part-time employed. On the other hand, the importance of work in society is changing radically. Young people, for example, often seek meaningful work rather than work. In addition, work is polarized: some people seem to have more work than enough, some do not work at all. Currently, there are 180,000 self-employed people in Finland. Mr President! Are we still trying to hold on to old work, or are we trying to find opportunities for new work in Finland? I'm saying that at the moment we're more afraid of losing than we're dreaming of something better. At the same time, we lose a lot of jobs in Finland. So we should look ahead. A bridge must now be created between genuinely new work and unemployment. Sometimes a new job is started very small and involves part of the salary, even through social security and unemployment benefit. The question is whether Finland has the weakest security where it is most needed, for example on the entrepreneur side. In view of the change in work, we need to find a bridge in society for new work. We need new safety nets. Social security must no longer be a quilt. But what kind of safety nets? People who encourage people to accept a new job. After all, the greatest security of all
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u5	Mr President! In our society, we need a more constructive debate on values that goes beyond the border fences as to what kind of society and working life we want in the future. The future won't come over us. We can build it together. In committee, experts were asked what was missing from the report. The committee's report therefore highlights aspects that were not included in the report. In further preparation, it is also worth taking into account the report on the new opportunity for Finland, which has just been produced from the committee, which presents radical technologies that are stronglyreforming society. The report also highlights the importance of the Committee's message: the work will not stop, but it will change its shape. As technology develops, new jobs and new occupations are emerging. At the same time, some occupations also disappear. For individuals, the loss of occupations can be a loss and, if badly managed, will lead to an increase in the polarisation of the labour market. In order to prevent this, solutions must be found. Wage work and typical employment relationships are not disappearing, although more and more jobs are also different. The big question in the change in work is what kind of life we want to secure, for example, for those in the base economy and in atypical employment relationships. Reform of social security is essential. We Social Democrats stress that social security must create a bridge between work and study and work and changes in life situations. The more flexible and secure the social security system is, the better people can and can find employment. We also stress that labour law must safeguard workers' rights and well-being while enabling new, innovative business models and jobs. Mr President! Education and training are the social investments on which society develops and our knowledge-based competitiveness remains. The knowledge system needs to be developed as a whole from early childhood education to further and conversion training so that learning is lifelong, knowledge accumulates and study paths are smooth. Maintaining our competitiveness requires continuous and long-term investment in the education system, research and development. Unfortunately, Finland is losing its pioneering role as a knowledge society. Today's decisions on the resources of education, science and research either prevent or enable innovations to create new jobs in the future. Sometimes I wonder if we all understand how fast this change is going to be. For example, the decision to extend compulsory education should have been taken a long time ago. We should now talk about a wider increase in the level of competence. Mr President! Despite the improvement in the economic situation, youth unemployment is a major problem and we cannot afford to lose any young people. This is why it is particularly important to clarify youth unemployment in the second part of the report. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u6	Mr President! The transformation of work is one of the biggest challenges in Finland, if not the biggest. Changes in work and working life can be seen as part of a long continuum. It is essential that everyone has the opportunity to succeed regardless of background, gender, age or diversity. Recently, attention has been paid to harassment into free employment and equal pay. It is also hoped that it will be easier to combine work and family life. Mr President! A more effective coordination of work, social security and taxation is a challenge for our time and society that must be realistically prepared. Over the past decades, the share of low- and high-paid jobs has generally grown in developed economies. The polarisation of the labour market as a result of globalisation and increased digitalisation has also progressed in Finland. In particular, the share of middle-income occupations has decreased. The middle incomers, however, are the group that keeps the Finnish spine in its posture, and they will continue to be needed. Blues worry about society's inequality. Changing working life does not treat different occupational groups and individuals equally. Wage polarisation is a short road to the polarisation of society, which feeds on extremism. We need to be vigilant and ready for major changes in the global labour market change, so that everyone will continue to have equal opportunities to do their own work as a paid or self-employed person. As future AI and robotization enter society, the growing share of middle-income earners will be made up of sole entrepreneurs and self-employed, with the inevitable reduction of middle-income full-time work. Mr President! The new working models challenge the social security system, which is built around an employment relationship that is valid for an indefinite period. We will inevitably find ourselves in a situation where updating the current system will no longer help. As a nation, we should roll up our sleeves and resolutely renew what makes our society one of the best in the world. As the atypical forms of work increase, solutions must be found to ensure that all Finns are taken care of. In principle, work should always be profitable. A middle-income full-time job is not available to everyone, but not everyone wants it. Young people in particular are fascinated by new forms of employment. Many young people are highly educated among professionals and freelancers, and a large proportion are satisfied with their situation, even though their average income is relatively low. So we need to consider what it means to do work for a person in the future, how future generations define work. Mr President! The Blue Parliamentary Group considers that Finnish conscientiousness, diligence and pioneer spirit
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u7	Honorable Speaker! The first part of the foresight report deals with the future of Finnish work, and in fact the main message of this report by the Committee on the Future is that the future lies in our own small hands. The future can indeed be influenced by political decision-making. First of all, we must imagine the most beautiful possible Finland. What kind of work and what kind of Finland do we want? Then we need to start taking the right political decisions in order to achieve this objective. President! Before we go to these political recommendations, a few words about another study by the Committee on the Future, to which reference was made earlier. The main task of the Committee on the Future is to anticipate technological developments. During the last parliamentary term, a project was launched to seek out 100 new technologies for the future for Finland. Last season we published the first study, and now in April we publish a comprehensive update, which is about 500 pages. It is also interesting, in view of the foresight report, that in this study it was our job to look for a hundred new technologies, but also a hundred new professions and a hundred regulatory objectives, so that these technologies can be implemented smoothly. Actually, we found 200 new professions. Then why are there so many of these professions? I believe that it is a question of increasing the competitiveness of the nation by adopting technologies and of increasing the competitiveness of the nation and of creating new jobs. Technology brings and creates jobs. Then there are some political recommendations: Firstly, we need to put the legal base in order to make self-employment and other atypical jobs easier and easier. The work account model of our alternative budget is one of the key answers to this problem. This model can be piloted in creative sectors or in the case of those who are able to work part-time, where the adaptation of work and social support is often problematic. The second recommendation I have is to make lifelong learning possible. Cooperation between educational levels must be seamless and flexible. Study paths must also be flexible. Knowledge, skills and knowledge must be maintained throughout life. The technological advance does not come by itself. We need to make the right R & D investments in the right targets. All in all, we are entering a new era. The changes are really fast, the development is accelerating. You have to run faster to stay still. Targets must be set in the future and efforts must be made to achieve them. So did Iivo Niskanen and others at the Olympics. Sometimes hard work is rewarded, not always.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u8	Mr President! For decades, there has been a radical decline in work and a change in the nature of work. Now, with digitalisation, the issue is being re-opened. We are no longer talking about globalisation, but about whether robots and artificial intelligence will take the rest of the jobs, or whether the remaining jobs will be further shattered, whether more and more people will be forced to scrape their livelihoods in the midst of endless shredding. The Government's report on the future and the report by the Committee on the future, which we unanimously drafted, deal with these topical issues. The transformation of work is a reality. There's no doubt about that. For example, the number of atypical employment relationships is on the increase, although the change is not as dramatic as we might expect. The requirements of working life also change. Life-long learning is also emphasised in permanent work. An increasing number of jobs are only one track, through which one education and a permanent job will go to retirement. On the contrary, more and more of us work as a network of crossing paths, where opportunities and conditions live and change in time. In addition to regular secular work, there are many forms of work and livelihood. That is why the division of people into the unemployed, entrepreneurs and employees is no longer today, let alone the future. The transition from one situation to another needs to be better taken into account. We need steps towards basic income and more flexible social security. We don't need active models. We don't need children's day care rights. We don't need chimps. Promoting skills, quality education from kindergarten to university and encouraging new learning in general are also ways to ensure our future success. In the Greens' view, cutting off education is short-sighted policy and reducing our chances of surviving in the future. Mr President! The work will not end by doing, and there have been industrial revolutions before. As long as we can do things better, there will be work to be done, and as long as we do our best, we can do things better. Robots don't destroy work, they change it. And even though the Teslas, virtual reality, or nanobots that destroy cancer, for example, are on the news, not all work will continue to be on such spheres. So the human encounter is not disappearing. Although the tools are changing, we will continue to have teachers, nurses and many other familiar professions. At the same time, we'll get a bunch of new ones. In addition to the need for social security reform, the Greens believe that we must bear in mind, in particular, the carrying capacity of nature. How we solve the global environmental crisis is likely to affect the work of the future much more than digitalisation, for example. Instead of worrying about the destruction of work, it is worth paying attention not only to new opportunities but also to securing the viability of our planet. By doing so, we can also create a huge amount of new work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u9	Mr President! As has often been the case in history, technological developments once again change, destroy, create and replace occupations and working methods. The work is transferred to platforms and new earning logics. More and more people work with a robot. At the same time, labour market participation in industry continues to decline and services grow. The number of immigrants, self-employed persons and jobs is increasing. The middle class has begun to shrink, for the first time in man's memory. These changes are already ongoing, some of which have been going on for a long time. Now we don't have to guess if they're gonna come true. We can move on to wondering what the consequences will be. Mr President! Every turn of work is overturned by the power of one or two, but when the political system has been too slow to adapt, whole forms of state have gone into exchange. Only a very light-headed politician would be indifferent to the break-in of work. The work also affects everything else in our lives — income formation, public health, family structure, time perception, everything. At the moment, a growing number of people feel that politics responds to the break-in of work too slowly. The solutions created in the world of a completely different kind of work become fragile when they no longer recognize and encounter the daily lives of people. Today, our social security system does not provide a minimum level of income protection for all, but traps people in red tape traps. The day care system created to facilitate work has become an obstacle for many. Health and safety at work is more of a coincidence when it comes to exploitation. The tax authorities are no longer able to tax all transactions. Mr President! We do not know exactly what the transformation of the work will bring. The future is always open, at least in part, for us to decide. The goal of the Left Alliance is the autonomy of the workers, the guaranteed livelihood of all, and the translation of functional income distribution for the benefit of the work. At the same time, the environmental situation calls for active promotion of shared use and other forms of resource-saving work. To achieve this, we need to replace rigid fault-based systems with universal transfers and services, to reform legislation on a large scale and to shift the focus of taxation to capital. Finally, we must move from the control of the subjects to the trust society of free people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u10	Mr President! You can't show a vision in three minutes. However, it is the vision that is important in the debate on the future. Without a clear vision of what we want, there will be no positive change. This is very much the case for working life. In any case, working life will change, and that is clearly demonstrated by the report of the Committee on the Future. The critical question is: will we simply be drawn into change without being able to influence it? Your central theme in the report on the future is that while favourable economic development classifies new jobs, many traditional jobs disappear with digitalisation and robotisation, and this development is very fast. That is why we cannot postpone the reform of social security. Changes in working life lead to fewer permanent jobs and many short-term jobs. Demands for labour mobility are increasing and investment in education and training is becoming even more important. That is why we have to say this out loud once again: the fact that the government has decided to make cuts to education during the parliamentary term is not only unacceptable at the moment, but that means that we will lose the most important pieces of the game for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u11	Mr President! The Government's report highlights the revolutionary importance of digitalisation and robotisation. The need for progress has been left to the lesser in many other areas raised by the Committee on the Future in its report. We are faced with a major reform of education and training, and also with a great need for conversion and further training, in order to respond quickly enough to new training challenges and to make lifelong learning work. Right now we need technological leadership, bold innovations and new growth companies. In this situation, cuts in education and research are in no way justified and have therefore been opposed by the KD. As educational requirements increase, we are concerned about people who, for one reason or another, are unable to train enough. Will society be divided even further into the good and the bad, will the labour market be differentiated into categories A and B, and will we invest enough in those who face the challenge of coping with everyday life? Care must be taken to ensure that everyone has a valuable opportunity to become involved in society. It can also be promoted in cooperation with the third sector. The solutions to the rapid transformation of society and the transformation of work must be based on sustainable development, strengthening equality and inclusion between people. The development of technology makes it easier to do teleworking and to implement decentralised production solutions. The opportunities offered by technology should therefore be used for the balanced development of the different regions of Finland. Increasing atypical employment, self-employment and self-employment also require reform of social security. The basic incentive security proposed by the KD combines our complex support system with one of the general support measures and, with the national income register, dismantles red tape and incentive traps so that people always benefit from increased labour income. In a changing society, new welfare indicators must also be introduced as a matter of urgency. GDP alone is not enough — it is not about the real well-being of people. Mr President! It is important that there is an open debate in society about the future of work and what kind of society we want. A positive climate is needed to influence the future and create a new one. It is not enough just to adapt to change. In assessing the many new skills needed in the future, attention must also be paid to the values, skills and educational objectives underlying Finnish society and its citizens' civilisation. It is a good thing for us to live together if the surrounding community supports the healthy and lasting eternal values on which our success has basically been built.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u12	Even before the debate, I will give the floor to the Prime Minister, five minutes from the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u13	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on the Future for your careful report. As the chairman of the committee said, this is a very big change. I'll start by giving my regards from Oulu. Yesterday afternoon we discussed the key issues of Finland and the EU at the University of Oulu in the 2020s. University people are very committed and motivated to develop Finland over the next decades. I'm going to organize similar events at several colleges. The contribution of these events will be used in the second part of the foresight report, in the future work of the Government and ministries and in the preparation of Finland’s EU policy. I will now respond to some of the main comments made by the committee. Firstly, the Committee on the Future described the report's dual role as an innovation in future policy, which will increase the quality and effectiveness of the report. I agree with that. I think it is worth continuing to do so in the future. Secondly, gross domestic product cannot really be the only serious measure of well-being. The issue has also been raised in the Committee on Sustainable Development. The Government will decide on its progress in the strategy session next Monday. In the preparation of the foresight report, indicators can be used to assess the measures of change from the viewpoints of e.g. ecology and equality. Mr President! The regulatory needs of the future will be focused on the second part of the report. This applies to self-employed, self-employed and fragmented employment relationships. We legislators and legislators must be able to keep the regulation of society within reach, and the laws must respond to the present day and enable, for example, the application of artificial intelligence. This is also why the preparation of the second part of the report is closely linked to Professor Saarinen's Working Group on Inequality and the Action Project. The project will pave the way for a comprehensive reform of basic security to improve employment and reduce inequalities. Hopefully, in the future, we will be better able to combine part-time income with basic income and a salary corresponding to working capacity, for example. You will also highlight the possibilities of the Incomes Register. The Incomes Register will be introduced in 2019 and first in terms of wages and salaries. The register provides an unprecedented basis for the coordination of labour income and social benefits. Indeed, new technologies create new job opportunities. The government's openings in the field of new technologies focus especially on artificial intelligence and the platform and sharing economy. This also presents Finland with a major challenge of converting perhaps one million Finns over the next ten years. Finding solutions to exclusion and unemployment for young people requires understanding both of the mechanisms of exclusion and of the impact of short-term unemployment on the working life of young people. The government has focused especially on young people outside work and education. Young people will live in a society where there are no clear boundaries between an employed person, an unemployed person, a self-employed person and a student. The foresight report will hold a wide-ranging debate on the development and requirements of such a working life. Education is a key solution for coping with labour market change and preventing the exclusion of young people. The Government is undergoing many reforms to ensure lifelong learning and strong competence in Finland, such as the new comprehensive school programme, the new upper secondary school law, the reform of vocational education and training, the vision of higher education and research in 2030. Mr President! A pluralistic and multi-sounding debate is part of Finnish society. The open and discussion preparation of the foresight report will continue to be promoted. The Government intends to better link the foresight report and Agenda 2030. Together, they form the core of future work and of the overgenerational policy. I thank the Committee on the Future for its excellent report and the committees for their opinions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u14	I will open the debate and now ask those Members who wish to speak in this debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u15	Mr President! The discussion on the future of work must definitely take into account the links between work and energy and raw materials flows and sustainable development objectives. Ecological renewal requires a lot of work. A carbon neutral must be built from Finnish society. We need low-emission energy, we need to reform the building stock, the transport system, and we need to develop sustainable agriculture in a resource-wise way. All this creates work, new work too, and that is why sustainable development for the future of work, as has been said here, can be even greater than digitalisation. I am pleased that the Prime Minister also made a strong point in this second part of the foresight report, and I hope, of course, that the Agenda for Sustainable Development, Agenda 2030, will also be a strong part of Finland's influence on the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u16	Mr President! Indeed, we are all already seeing the transformation of this work, there are quite a lot of different job renewals. As has been said, a significant number of these jobs are still a little like the previous ones, but more are new types of tasks, with this new division of social security, unemployment security, work, paid employment. In fact, I would have asked the Prime Minister: We should now quickly find practical ways of doing this new division. One way is to just get this income register. It has also been felt in the discussions that it would not yet serve well enough to reconcile employment and unemployment security at the beginning of 19, so that it would always know that work would be worthwhile. Has it now been considered more closely that it really can solve these problems immediately in that it dares to accept work and perhaps then compensate for it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u17	Mr President! We have long been talking about the end of work as a result of technological developments, and perhaps partly because of this, I believe that too little has been said about how technology has created new work. If we are wise, we should now take advantage of this radical technology report presented by Mrs Vähämäki and focus our thoughts on how new technologies will help us get new jobs in Finland. Future work-creating innovations are born of today's basic research, which is why investing in science, research and development would be the best investment for the future and taking care of future jobs. Saving from these will undermine future growth and prevent the creation of jobs in the future. Mr President! I would also like to ask the Prime Minister: how could this happen that Agenda 2030 is not in this first part?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u18	Mr President! I was born in December 86. I lived my childhood during the recession of the '90s, when difficult decisions and cuts were made. I've grown up now and I'm about 30 years old, and my friends and I are looking for a job and a place in this society. It has been shown that the financial crisis hit my age the hardest. It is more difficult for us to enter the labour market than for middle-aged people who had a stronger position there even before the financial crisis. In a way, you might think that we have suffered twice in these regressions. Could the Prime Minister give some hope or comfort to me and my peers in finding our place in working life in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u19	Honorable Speaker! In that brief speech, I made it my second recommendation to make lifelong learning possible by ensuring seamless and flexible cooperation between the levels of education and, on the other hand, smooth learning pathways beyond the levels of education and training institutions in order to maintain knowledge, skills and skills throughout life. Why? It is a question of technology changing tasks there within the job, within the profession. In the past, there may not have been such a big change within the profession, and technological development affects it. That is why conversion training and similar forms of training need to be developed considerably in order to bring out the real potential of the human being and to make the technologies a proper part of society. Otherwise, these people will be out of work at some point. We'll have to work on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u20	Mr President! I would like to thank the Prime Minister for having decided to carry out the report in two parts. It has made it easier for us to work in committee and I think it has made it possible for us to get a better look at the matter. I would therefore like us to look at new ways in the future as well as how we can use the foresight work and the report of the Committee on the Future and the report you have produced in the work of the other committees, so that the foresight of the future will be more systematically part of the preparation of this country's policy. I believe it would benefit all of us. For example, when we talk about artificial intelligence, it is certainly in everyone's interest that we have clear regulation and ethical principles before the situation is more so-called on our skin. I would also like us to bear in mind that Agenda 2030 should be more closely linked to all our policies, and I was pleased that the Prime Minister took this into account in his first response.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u21	Mr President! I will use as an example a brothel opened up from robotization to Germany, where all sex workers are dolls. This is a good thing, good development — the great promise of all technology throughout the history of mankind was that works that are so reluctant to do can be pushed into the hands of robots. The bad news is, however, that in the future, most of this company's income stream will go to the owners of capital and that there will be no more auxiliary, sanitation and reception work available for people there, which may be one-tenth of what they would have received in the past in the work that robots are currently doing. The threat here is a dramatic polarisation, which is already reflected in the thinning of the middle class in our society, when work is being carried out not only for some professional tasks but also, above all, for those low-paid jobs. If we don't renegotiate income distribution at this point, we're in trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u22	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! The Committee on the Future notes that although new jobs and professions are emerging and atypical employment relationships are on the increase, a large proportion of the population are still in so-called normal employment relationships: in paid employment in familiar occupations of industry or services. That is why we must continue to invest in well-being at work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u23	Mr President! Promoting sustainable development creates work. The challenges of sustainable development should therefore be seen as opportunities for sustainable employment growth. The Committee on the Future believes that any proposal for measures in Part Two of the Future Life Programme must also be assessed and justified in terms of their contribution to sustainable development, gender equality and inclusion. I would like to ask: does the Government intend to do this? On the other hand, education and employment opportunities have a significant impact on inclusion and well-being. Youth unemployment and its implications for the future are of great concern. I would like to ask: does the Government intend to explain the causes of youth unemployment and to take them into account separately and with particular care in the second part of the report on the future, as proposed by the Committee on the Future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u24	And still, in response, a minute's time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u25	Mr President! There is an interesting reference in that report by the Committee on the Future: we must not give an overly technology-centric picture of working life and the future. And a surprise — when I Googled what I found under this fourth industrial revolution, I was struck by an ex-Prime Minister Stubb’s presentation less than a year ago, in which he actually dealt with the economy, politics and ethics. I agree with Mr Stubb that all of these should be dealt with in this context. I repeat: economy, politics and ethics. We demars have now raised how to cope with change: to have a good general education, to have a good professional education. That is why we have proposed this increase in compulsory education age to enable young people to cope with this change in the future. Prime Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u26	Mr President! Finland is one of the most equal countries in the world, and our equality is based on strong, fair funding from the welfare state to those who are lacking. How, in the future, will new work models in the initial economy fairly collect taxes and insurance premiums so that our well-being can be maintained on an equal footing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u27	Mr President! Mr Jaskari and also the Prime Minister raised the point that working life is no longer such a rigid division between the employed and the unemployed, on the one hand, and self-employed and students, on the other. For example, in the reform of family leave, I consider this to be the most important thing. People want to combine a wide range of things in their lives, and I believe that they must be given the opportunity to do so. I have previously asked a written question about the income limits of student student student support, about how much work they can do while studying without losing student support. I would be happy to hear the Prime Minister's view on the fact that, in Finland, when the limit on study aid is about EUR 12,000 per year and in Norway, Sweden and Denmark, the level of 18000 to 19,000 per year, would it be possible for us to increase it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u28	Mr President! In the future, finding a job or getting a place to study means that the competition is getting tougher. Yes, young people in the future in their quest for and trying to study face greater challenges than we parents ourselves have been. This is also the result of the reform of high school. It's very difficult to get into further studies. The Committee on the Future points out in this report that not everyone is able to cope with everyday life, and that is indeed the case. We must continue to work hard to prevent exclusion in the future. We're talking robotics here. Not everyone in the digital world can do either, or with their robots. I would like to highlight one example in the area of care. We already have robots operating. They're a big help in that operating room. There's machine vision and motor skills. But when you're treating a human being, a robot doesn't replace that human nurse anyway. Is that not so, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u29	Mr President! Automation, robotisation and the development of artificial intelligence will significantly change production and work in the future. We're in the middle of a big break-in. New products, industries and work are being created. Even the working methods, content and processes of permanent work change, and some work disappears altogether. Climate change also changes work and production. No one can tell exactly how much work is lost and how much new is born. It is possible that more work will be lost than is created, and the key issue will be the division of work, i.e. the reduction of working hours and flexibility in working arrangements. If robots do an increasing part of the work, the key question is also to ensure the tax base, the distribution of income and the livelihood of all people. In any case, the importance of lifelong learning, retraining and continuing training will become more relevant as the change in working life accelerates and the demands of working life
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u30	Mr President! The legendary historian, Kauko Pirinen, who reached high age, is reported to have said in his last years that futurology is humbug. In this respect, I do not share this respected academic teacher. You can't take control of the future. A wide range of black swans and fate directives can change everything that has been observed in advance, but it is worth preparing for the future. Work changes for a lot of people. Appreciation changes. Work is not the primary way to live as an accepted person, to exist as an approved person, but the questions of daily livelihood are every-time issues. That is why this type of debate is very important, which is what we are now going to have. There'd be a lot more for these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u31	Mr President! A few comments on this huge package. When we talk about the future, it often goes through threats in Finland: what disappears, what is bad and so on. On the other hand, more and more emphasis should be placed on opportunities: what new work is being done, what new opportunities are being created for us by technology, so that we can solve different problems. This is also why it would be important for this to certainly increase confidence in society and also give people security in the change we are living in. The second point relates to the fact that when we discuss the transformation of work, we talk a lot about changes in employment relationships, forms of employment: what percentage of people do full-time work or part-time work. Instead, it would be more worthwhile to focus on how the content of its work changes, regardless of the employment relationship in which it is employed. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u32	Mr President! Indeed, it is not self-evident that the success of industrialisation, such as Finland, is also the success of digitalisation. Almost all of the world economy-controlled platform economy companies are located in the United States or China, and last year 48 per cent of the investment in AI start-ups went to China and 38 per cent to the United States. Instead, only13% of theinvestments in the ‘otherworld’ category, which includes Europe. When this is combined with Finland’s skills gap, our future will look gloomy. There would be an immediate need for 7,000 more software designers, another one in the next few years. My question is: are we even trying to cope with this challenge of digitalisation? At this rate, Europe will decline into a pittoresque tourist destination and the future of Finnish work will be to serve European pizza, bratwurst and meatballs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u33	Mr President! The subject is extremely topical and we all know that nothing will be permanent from now on but a rapid change. I'm sure the AI will come. After all, the best computers that are currently being made are now the best, but in two years’ time they are likely to be very old - fashioned. That is why we should now realise, as robots and other modern systems develop, that we cannot leave work in the way of the last millennium, but that there must be rapid development on that side too, that we are creating modern and flexible systems. The harder the system is, the worse these new systems work, and that means that, in a competitive situation, Finnish work in the world is no longer so well sold. Although we are a high-tech country — Nokia was not born here by accident, and we have the forest industry, we have the top metal industry, we have everything — in the midst of all this we should see that when we have to develop and speed up, what we talk about on this occasion a lot, it means that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u34	Värderade Talman! Ledamöterna Hoskonen och Plant pratade bra om artificiell intelligences och ledamot Räsänen om behovet av att it vöjligheterna.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u35	Mr President! The reform of social security will probably be one of the biggest issues for the next government. It is self-evident that work changes in such a way that we need to be better able to care for people who are at the interface between an employee and an entrepreneur, who are self-employed or who are in other atypical employment relationships, or who are able to support themselves with part-time work, in relation to social security. However, I would like to remind you that taking care of competitiveness is everything, and it is also possible to combine competitiveness with this technological transformation. If we are looking at the biggest job in Finland at the moment, it is a New Town car factory with about 4,000 people working and hundreds more taking on it, but there are also a thousand robots. If there were no robots there would also be no jobs for people. In other words, it is possible to combine these things, but we must ensure that the competitiveness of Finnish work will continue to be strong in relation to competing countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u36	Mr President! When we talk about the future, it is also important to discuss employment, and it is also accompanied by social security reform, as Mr Satonen pointed out. Finland needs a basic security model that encourages work, which is both simple to understand and individual. We should be looking for a model in Sweden or Great Britain. The previous UK system was in line with Finland’s complex current system, but the 2013 reform combined six need-tested unemployment benefit and tax deduction rights. The subsidy there is not a basic income but is granted only against activity. According to the Swedish model, everyone should work with their own abilities and skills for the benefit of society. All persons of working age and capable of working must have an obligation to seek employment and be involved in rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u37	Mr President! In my opinion, there has been a very good debate here in the Chamber, a good analysis of the transformation of work, and I feel that we are all of us here, too, that the transformation of work is already here, not just coming. But are we just talking about a job break-in? Are we going to take measures that will also contribute to the good things that can also be brought about by the transformation of work? Maybe I don't see it that way. In my opinion, the government has done more precisely the opposite, for example, of this active model, which actually controls people more and more and does not encourage that change in work. There has also been a lot of talk here about social security and it has been said in many words that social security has not changed quite at the same pace as the change in this work. Prime Minister, you're in the middle of this basic income experiment in the government, whether it's connected or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u38	At this stage, I will give Mr Lindtman and Mr Vart a reply and then to the Prime Minister for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u39	Mr President! Ever since the steam engine was invented, and even before that, it has always been guessed and exorcised that work will stop as technological progress moves forward. So has the talk during digitalisation. Perhaps the most important observation of this report on the future and, above all, of this committee's report is that faith should and should be. The job isn't over. Moreover, wage work will not stop, even if the structure of the labour market changes. But how is Finland doing? I agree with what Mr Satonen said: Finland's competitiveness must be taken care of. And what is ultimately on the basis of competitiveness? It's a skill. This is where I join Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. Do all decision-makers in Finland still know what the clock has hit? There is still a debate as to whether compulsory education should be extended, whether a secondary degree should be guaranteed for all when we are: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u40	Mr President! After all, work is about solving problems, and as long as we have problems, we certainly have a need for work. This transition in work is challenging because it is fast, very wide-ranging, unpredictable and multidimensional. We are actually aware that huge reforms are now needed, for example, in social security or in the labour market. We have a very common view of what kind of things are needed, what society in the future should be like. The question really is why we have not succeeded in doing these reforms, because these are not new things, what we are talking about. In the context of this debate, when we are talking about the future, I would also encourage all colleagues to think about these political decision-making structures. Is this the most productive possible environment to think about new solutions for the future, or could we also think about reforming the structures of society, whether we should reform the structures of political decision-making?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u41	And the Prime Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u42	Mr President! Thank you for a constructive debate. Firstly, Mr Paloniemi and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, you raised the issue of the report on sustainable development and the report on the future. These things have by no means been made separately. They are made side by side but not separately. For example, the work on sustainable development indicators will continue and will then be used in the second part of the report. Congressman Jaskari, you brought up this income register. That is a prerequisite, but it is not enough. We must then be able to make decisions about basic income or its type of basis and the kind of remuneration that is built on it. I believe that society is now more prepared to discuss this. I have also had discussions with employee organisations. Clearly, there is a willingness to do so. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, you brought up this job image through a change, and Mr Elovaara also raised the question of whether there is any hope for the future. Yes, if we rightly seize the possibility of artificial intelligence, for example, we have the opportunity to double our growth potential, that is how new work is created. The image and structure of the work will change. Representative Vähämäki raised the need for conversion training, and we will probably have about a million Finnish people need conversion training over the next ten years, and this will require structural changes from such degree-based thinking in universities. When you talk about conversion training, you have to be able to relax. Mrs Parviainen, you raised the issue of regulatory anticipation, which is an extremely important point of view. For example, who will own the data in the future — I think it should be owned by society, and do we need to think, for example, about new state-owned companies there? This can also be the case when we talk about taxation, so that the means of taxation will become different in the future as a result of digitalisation. Social income formation can also take place through the ownership of this data and related income. Congressman Kontula, I don't see the future that dark. However, expert work will increase, but we must have an open debate on the combination of social security and lower-paid work. These are the subjects and debates we are facing. Finally, Mr Gustafsson: these ethical issues are extremely important when it comes to new work and artificial intelligence. Mr Juvonen, the machines will by no means replace human presence and touch, but when properly applied they will also give more room for empathy in the workplace and especially in the care sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u43	The debatable continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u44	Mr President! Good speeches have been made and I have listened carefully to the Prime Minister's speeches about the future, technology and competitiveness. Finns are good at inventing, as far as I know, a pedestrian reflector has been invented in Finland and we have invented pine and spruce clothes, but we have now forgotten that we would fund more of these innovative people so that they could develop their products. Of course, it is always hoped that if you are presenting ideas, where does the funding come from? I would ask you to consider, for example, wind power support and its continuation, because it is, however, very low in employment and should be running itself. We would have enormous potential — if we were to consider plastic waste from the sea, global warming, there are huge problems to solve, and if technological solutions were to be found, I could say that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u45	Mr President! As someone mentioned here, the transformation of work was already familiar in the 50s and 60s, when the agricultural society really became an industrial and service society, there was an exodus from the land and an extermination. Well, now the break-in of work is generated by developing technology, digitalisation, environmental requirements, an ageing population and also changes in people's values. So the nature of the work is constantly changing: some occupations disappear and others are born, and work is also being done in a new way. It is also feared that robots will take jobs, but I think that there is always a need for someone who does physical or mental work. The tasks may be purchased into smaller entities, some of which will be replaced by technology, and the remainder will then be the work of people. Finally, I would like to say that Finland's success requires knowledge and education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u46	Mr President! Education and training are the social innovations on which society develops and our knowledge-based competitiveness remains. That is what Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said, and it is easy to agree with this. Mr President! It must be noted that it is also important for the competitiveness of Finnish society that adult people, people in working life, can continue to be confident that knowledge will develop as necessary through technological development and changes in the functions of the business structure. It is important that citizens have security in mind when dealing with this change, and trust can be built on its own future. Prime Minister Sipilä, I really hope that this work will continue in such a way that we will find a common vision of a secure, trust-based Finnish society, a society in the midst of change,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u47	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the same point as Mrs Talja and many other representatives in the past, as the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities also pointed out in its own opinion, namely the question of how to ensure in future the correct financing of the welfare state by means of tax and insurance funds if a significant part of the exchange takes place beyond traditional business and paid employment. In order to meet these challenges, tax legislation must be reformed to take account of the platform economy and other new ways of working and earning, as has been said many times here. In addition, it is necessary to clarify how our labour legislation can be brought into line with changes in work so that work can be made easier and at the same time ensure minimum protection for the worker. As has already been said, it is good to clarify the social security system. Tools for this will hopefully also be available from the ongoing basic income experiment,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u48	Mr President! Technology revolutions have always increased jobs in history so far. As the Prime Minister has already announced twice in his speech, there is a need in Finland for about a million people undergoing conversion training at the moment. The question is whether this training will take place within these jobs or, as it is now, largely elsewhere, as if by leaving the job and then relocating after training. What's the highway from now on? However, it seems that when these companies are the strongest unit to tolerate changes and there is the knowledge and also the way things are handled, there could be more of that transformation inside the company. It might be a more creative way. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u49	Mr President! It is very good that the Prime Minister raised the issue of gross domestic product. It might be wise in this time that instead of gross domestic product, society should be considered from the point of view of such gross national product sustainability and education as an essential contribution. In this huge transformation, we must create the ability of children and young people to be agile and tough, those over whom the future does not wipe out as a wave but rather ride on that wave for themselves and for Finland as a whole. Here I was thinking that Finland has had a compulsory education age of 16 since 1957 and the world has changed so much since then. We do not know what the future holds, but we must prepare our children and young people to face that future in the best possible way, and here is this raising of compulsory schooling age.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u50	Mr President! Thank you for this report and for the numerous comments that have been made in this report. I myself came across an employee of SSAB who was flying from Oulu to Helsinki today, who told me that this type of hybrid project is now being prepared to revolutionise the manufacture of all steel, i.e. it would no longer be coke but hydrogen. This would be the first fossil-free steel-making technology, and as early as this year it is planned to start planning such a pilot power plant in Luleå. If successful, this would allow Sweden to reduce its CO2 emissions by 10 per cent and Finland by as much as 7 per cent. Of course, it may also in some respects reduce the need for labour, but on the other hand, this will enable new technologies to be introduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u51	At this stage, it is the highest time to give a reply to the chairman of the committee, Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u52	Thank you, Mr President. In describing this changing working life and changing occupations of traditional occupations, the committee sums it up as follows: ‘For example, the welder does notwel, but the controller robots,but the cranes do not vote for the cranes,but he directs the cranes at the same time. This change, in which the integration of the physical and digital world is central to work, is described as Industry 4.0.’ But as has also been pointed out in a number of speeches, at the same time, quite a large proportion of the population — and this will be the case for a long time — will continue in what is known as normal work, normal occupations. All of this and this change is also putting pressure on labour market policy, as it were, and also on us legislative people. How does the Prime Minister feel about the pressures of this change, this transformation and this phase of transformation, which means that both camps still have workers for a long time, pile up in the direction of legislators and legislators, in the direction of labour market policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u53	Mr President! Whatever the work of the future and whatever it is, as Mr Gustafsson said here, there is no harm in education and extensive civilisation. Prime Minister, in your own speech you referred to the reform of vocational education and training. A week ago, the Section for Transport and Agriculture of the Committee on Finance took a trip to Central Finland, we went to the Äänekoski bio factory, then we went to the Tommi Mäkinen rally car factory and Valtra tractor factory, and there was a question of training. After all, the traditional model is to train, for example, at a vocational institution and then try to get a job, but it seems that perhaps this too is in the process of change. Of course, vocational training is increasingly geared towards jobs, but I would like to hear the Prime Minister's view of what you think will be the role of the company in the future to train
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u54	Mr President! Of course, when discussing the future and the transformation of work, there are many conclusions in the analyses that are also contradictory. Perhaps Mr Kivelä could have said here that we historians have also generally said that we often have the ability to predict the future, but the conclusions must be contradictory. However, now that I looked at these data in this analysis, the emphasis on threats, the emphasis on opportunities was different, but it combined that education and knowledge were as if always the answers. For us decision-makers, this is a big, perhaps comforting conclusion, and it is very much in this Chamber, which we must be happy about, because it is with our own decisions that we can influence education and knowledge. It is therefore good to stress at this point that Finland’s success and global position will also be built on equal education and research in the future. For example, the Social Democratic Party has been pushing these issues for decades, that is to say, raising the level of education and skills. So there is nothing new about this, but new answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u55	Mr President! The diverse and wise opinions of the Committee on the Future suggest, among other things, that by developing and piloting models for the creative economy we could find entirely new solutions that could also be used in other professions. For example, new approaches to agricultural entrepreneurship should be better explored, as by-catches of agriculture combine entrepreneurship and paid work. This happens in a great many jobs in the future. And one thing worth piloting, of course, which has already been mentioned here, is, of course, making it easier for those who are able to work part-time. Today there is far too little opportunity for the part-time worker to find employment and the attitudes of society and jobs are from the last millennium. You should be able to make a difference to that, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u56	Mr President! In its report, the Committee on the Future attaches a great deal of attention to inclusion and education, and it is good that these themes have been raised here today in greater detail. For example, when we talk about compulsory education, I think it is appropriate to consider together how we should ensure that everyone is more involved. The Greens have suggested extending compulsory education to the whole of the second stage or up to the age of 18, and also that we should look at the beginning of education, i.e. making pre-school education from two years to five-year-old children. This would enable us to train Finns better at an earlier stage. I believe that when the Committee on the Future continues with the report on Phase 2, we will certainly be wrestling with these issues of education and, of course, they will be discussed separately tomorrow. But I would also encourage further reflection on education policy from the perspective of the future. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u57	Mr President! The equality of opportunities must be the cornerstone of the working life of the future and the working line of the government. Everyone must have equal opportunities to cope with their own abilities and diligence in working life and to receive wages and pensions in line with their work. This is not happening yet. Due to the structures maintained by society, women are still on the way and a great deal of potential remains unexploited in working life. Action is needed to achieve equality of opportunity. Even good has been achieved by the government: for example, a lump sum for the mother’s employer. For example, the reform of family leave allowing part-time work is still awaiting implementation. My question is: how will the improvement of the labour market status of women, equality of opportunity and the facilitation of work-family reconciliation continue to be achieved by the government in this period?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u58	I will give Mr Skinner a reply, and then the Prime Minister would like to speak for two minutes, and then we will continue to do so for a short time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u59	Mr President! Of course, it is nice to follow the debate on the future and see how we agree on almost everything we should do, but I think that the key question is how to do it. It is a much more difficult question than what should be done. It is quite clear that the only chance for a small Finland is knowledge and the strengths must be used by Finland. I would have asked the Prime Minister: You mentioned just now that the state could and perhaps should play a role in making the future, and you mentioned potential state ownership and new companies, and now that you have been following this short development story of the state development company, it is very difficult to find out what your ownership strategy has been and how you will respond through it to the challenges of artificial intelligence, digitalisation, the platform economy, not to mention the challenges of cyber threats and the cyber economy. Could you open up a little bit of what you're going to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u60	Prime Minister. Maybe a few minutes on the spot, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u61	Mr President! Mr Östman has left, but he asked about this combination of part-time work and social security, and I actually have this same answer, which has been discussed several times here, that basic income could form the basis of it and then on top of it productivity and skills, the ability to work, the corresponding salary. This could then form a whole of its livelihood. Mr Pekonen also referred to this. Mr Suutari and Mr Eestilä raised this need for training and the role of businesses there. Every company that is interested in its own future will take care of the expertise of its own personnel, but I am sure that good cooperation will have to be made in the future. I myself, for example, have experience of converting engineers through the one-year conversion programme, and I think that this type of cooperation should be possible even in even shorter conversion training periods without any qualifications. But it's a collaboration. Congressman Guzenina, you raised this gross national product. We may not be able to drop it, we need it, but we need other gauges alongside it. Perhaps even a little ironic is that welfare and even happiness are measured with GDP per capita indicators. They're the most important meters in there. Other instruments are definitely needed alongside these. Mr Wallin, you have raised the issue of combining the role of this entrepreneur with that of an employee. That combination is already today. We have such billing companies, through which you are able to work without setting up a Y-ID, and I think this is the right development, the right direction to take between being made an entrepreneur, between being made a longer section of the employment relationship. We must be able to combine these in the future in a flexible way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I have seen the response that has been requested, at least the following people who have not yet participated in the debate: Mr Heinäluoma, Mr Kiuru, Mr Semi, Mr Viitanen and Mrs Myller. And if one more representative feels that he has not yet received the floor and would like to... - Well, here we go. Congressman Heinäluoma, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u63	Mr President! There is a considerable consensus here on what is happening: the direction of change is indeed accelerating. All these phenomena are already present. Of course, a Member of Parliament can take comfort in the fact that the work of a Member of Parliament is not running out at first instance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u66	Mr President! Predicting the future is an exceptionally challenging task. A good example of that is history. Every generation will rewrite history. It may indicate the difficulty of predicting the future — we have to rewrite it many times before we get to live. Prime Minister Sipilä was able to, or was, in the Olympic Games to take a shower, and my vision is that more and more ministers would be able to take a shower with the success of the Olympic team or other teams. Sport is a rather atypical work. It is a cultural, experience-based work that does not involve social security. There is uncertainty about it, and it is certainly not a pension post. Now that a report on sports policy is being made, it is certainly worth a close comparison, which was the difference between Norwegians and Finns, precisely in relation to the comparison
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u67	Mr President! I believe that this industrial transformation has been going on for 200 years. It's been our normal development. In the past, the operations were developed in such a way that the machines were bigger and more rounds were thrown into them, and their size was increased in such a way as to increase efficiency. Now automation drives efficiency and makes new innovations, more products are made from raw materials, and these create a lot of jobs for us. Industrial work has become service occupations, maintenance of machinery and equipment, there is work there, and this requires conversion training. It would therefore be extremely important for us to invest more in vocational education and training and also to invest more in product development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u68	Mr President! Indeed, knowledge is the key to our survival in the future. Among other things, the committee draws together the fact that not everyone can cope with the growing challenges of knowledge. I think this is a rather serious fact, and I would therefore like to draw attention in this context to, for example, the literacy of children or, for example, the digital literacy of all citizens. We talk a lot about these, and these are certain stages that must be kept at a good level in order to preserve the opportunity for knowledge and for an equal society. President! When it comes to head and hands, I would like to say that it is inconceivable in this regard that the government has, for example, been able to direct resource cuts in education so large that we risk the future through it. As far as literacy and digital literacy are concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u69	Mr President! The transformation of work and the understanding of the change in work also have to do with understanding that job creation and economic growth cannot be linked to greater exploitation of natural resources in the future. On the contrary, we need to be able to reduce the use of natural resources, and this, of course, is one of the answers to talk about a circular economy. The second question is how will we really respond to the climate issue? It was said that in the next part these issues of sustainable development will be brought up. But in exactly the same way that this transformation of work takes place through the change in what we do and how we do it, the distribution of income also changes and differentiates, as has already been said here. We must also understand in the future how in a society where growth does not exist in the present sense, we will see to it that everyone stays with us and that then all people will have:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who has asked to speak in this debate has also received it at least once, some of the two to four speeches so far. Now I'm asking if there's still a willingness to continue this period of debatation. If so, I now ask their representatives to stand up and press the V button at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u71	Mr President! It is a good thing that this debate has brought up these shortcomings and problems in gross domestic product. That is why I am pleased to be able to tell you that we in the Committee on the Future have decided to model this spring, what would be the use of new welfare indicators alongside GDP when drawing up the budget. It is an interesting experiment that we have decided to undertake. But then, Mr President, another point: in a good society, everyone is taken care of. And when we talk about the work of the future, we must remember that, for various reasons, not everyone can cope with the ever-increasing pressure on productivity growth, and that is why we must ensure that every citizen can feel that he or she is an important part of society. This can be promoted, inter alia, by developing the intermediate labour market in cooperation with the third sector. Every citizen is needed — and every citizen
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u72	Ärade talman, Mr President! In my previous speech, I called for a national programme for well-being at work. Too many employees are exhausted, and they're not feeling well. The most alarming thing is that young people have become more involved in burning out. This is costing society millions. Better management and properly measured resources are needed. Now the Prime Minister is no longer here, but I would have repeated the question: what is the government going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u73	Mr President! A very important conversation, even though there is not an opportunity to be involved all the time. I have been a passive alternate member of the Committee on the Future, and I have learned there that in the next 20 years Finland will change and the world will change in one way or another more than in the previous 200 years. The pace of change is very rapid. This puts big demands on decision-makers. I very much welcome the fact that, for the first time in Finland, there is a strategic government programme which really aims to influence these changes. But as far as we and the world are concerned, the political system does not want to be able to influence the changes. There is a constant campaign for elections, and the decision-making capacity is being weakened, for example in Germany, where, despite the clear result of the election, there is no desire to create a government — from Great Britain, not to mention many others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u74	Mr President! As many people have already said in this debate, it is quite nice to see a relative consensus on the challenges of the future, but, as Mr Skinner, my colleague, said how we are going to do it in the future, there will probably be some big differences. We all recognise that we should be able to create new jobs, but the old work in a certain way is being destroyed. Well, one solution, when you talk very much about the active model, the same ten packages have this six-month opportunity to train, which means that there would be an ongoing training situation. So it would probably be worth talking about those other parts of the package, if only a little bit of you, Mr opposition, are being challenged. The second question would be the real challenge, the question of modernising working life. A representative of the Danish LO said that it was best that local individual agreements were made, that new work could be directed, that new work could be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u75	Mr President! In this debate, it really has become clear what the final issue is when we move towards the future, and it will culminate in this knowledge and the demands that we need to have in order to be able to cope in the future. That is why it is great that a very strong message has come from the fact that now the most important drinks need to be put into knowledge. Perhaps it is good to agree with what Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has already said in his group statement that, at the latest, the decision-makers need to know what the clock has hit, i.e. to stop arguing about this raising of compulsory education age and then to look at the way in which we can meet the challenge we are facing in terms of continuing training and raising the skills of those already in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u76	Mr President! There is no need for gloom, there is also an opportunity for change. Man has always sought to break away from bad work by means of machines and changes. Whether this future industrial transformation and change in working life will become utopia or dystopia will depend largely on how change is managed and will also depend on what decisions are taken in this house. We need a change in legislation, we need legislation and practices that live in this time and in the future. For example, we need basic income when the forms of work change. We need lifelong learning, tailor-made learning paths. We need investments in artificial intelligence, research and knowledge. We need flexible working time arrangements and trials to shorten work. We need research and strong investments in product development. We need an increase in compulsory school age. We need legislation on artificial intelligence. We need reform of tax legislation when income distribution and services need funding
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u77	Mr President! For the past 100 years, a significant proportion of the jobs created have been created in such a way that we have transferred activities from outside the monetary economy to the monetary economy as gainful jobs, as gainful employment relationships. There are now several indications that this current, at least in part, may be turning. At least in part, we can be heading in the direction of relocation from the monetary sphere to the outside of the monetary economy. If this really is the case, then it will have a significant impact on all our structures, because then these activities will also be excluded from our tax system, out of all our regulations. I am a little concerned that in this debate in the first couple of hours this issue has not yet come up in any way, because I see that it is actually one of the most important trends for future change that we need to follow. Quite a lot we are talking about changes that are already underway or that have been implemented, not about the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u78	And in the time window that has just been agreed, the representatives who have asked to speak are Mr Hoskonen, Mr Skinner and Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u79	Mr President! Now that we have just celebrated the 100-year-old Finland’s Independence Festival with dedication and at the same time congratulated Estonia, which just turned 100 years old, it is necessary to say in this context that would we be in this situation and living standards in Finland if our fathers and ancestors had, in time, reacted with fear and complaint to change. I'm sure we wouldn't be. Look at today's technology, what it's based on. It's pretty much made in Finland. On the weekend, I had the privilege of riding a multipurpose machine, a neighborly multipurpose machine, carried in the forest by a young joymantian multipurpose machine driver, to thin the forest. For about three hours I watched that young man work, everything worked like a human thought, a brilliant job. The machine worked like a human thought, no problem. When I looked at it and this conversation, I listened to it that it would have been a great product if Einari Vidgrén had been a guy who had been afraid of challenges. Never would have been born. Or if this young man had not wanted to learn new things, that would not have happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u80	Mr President! In addition to knowledge, a small country has to and must have high value added jobs and they are created through knowledge. At the same time, we must recognise the fact that, even if economic growth is 5%, not all Finns are employed in high-value jobs. There, Mr Jaskari, we come to the question of, for example, the development of the intermediate labour market, the inclusion of young people. We currently have up to one generation throughout Europe, all of Finland failing to have a permanent job, without the kind of working life we all want and mean. I would have asked the Prime Minister how you intend to take into account youth unemployment through concrete measures. Even now, the Committee on the Future is only emphasising the search for reasons, but where are the solutions, how are we going to remedy this problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u81	One more response, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u82	Mr President! I'll continue with that theme of Hoskose and, of course, a little others. At least from history one can learn that cultures and economies that have not been able to regenerate have finally been destroyed. This is a very clear line, one of the few truths that we can actually learn or discover from history. If we are not to do the same for ourselves, we must be able to reform and be flexible. The environment is changing. We have to change with it. If you think of the burning of tar in northern Ostrobothnia when the ships were made of wood, then when iron ships were replaced, the need for tar burning and tar was removed. There was no need for tar on the iron ships. If that burning of tar had been forced on with the support of society, we would hardly currently have a shipbuilding industry in the direction of Turku that employs thousands, thousands of new factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u83	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u84	Mr President! This report and the debate here have been so important that we are now considering the break-in of work and its effects. After all, we have no definitive answers. The question that this report raises is whether a change in work can mean a connection between growth, employment, productivity and well-being, such as the connection of fate, change or break. That is what this report gives some thought to. Secondly, even if work and income should not be torn apart, we will have to think about the development of work, livelihood and social security, simultaneous development, even in a new way, because the issue of the concepts of work is changing. In addition to pursuing a high employment rate, the challenges are linked to the fact that this polarisation will mean that middle-paid and middle-class work may be reduced, and they are quite good taxpayers in this society. We have too many people who are long-term unemployed or who do not have training or jobs, and there is a risk that not everyone will be able to keep up with the change in work and work. The risks of exclusion are very high. In the future, the focus will shift from securing a single job to safeguarding the employment of workers from one job to another. Perhaps one of the most important parts of this report was the question of strengthening skills, the importance of lifelong learning in the challenges of the future, in which jobs are lost but at the same time new jobs are created, and it follows that we should support people who move from one job to another. And what's the support? It is competence and adequate unemployment benefit to enable people to take risks and move from one job to another. And the second relates to the fact that people can move from full-time work to part-time work, temporary work, unemployment, education or self-employment in very short periods of time. These bridges from one form of work to another must be safer so that people can make these changes, and for this we need knowledge and good security and social networks. My conclusion is only briefly that the higher the level of education, the longer the careers, the higher the employment rate and the better the opportunities in the labour market. The next major educational reform should therefore be a reform of vocational education and training, in particular vocational adult education, which will raise the skills of the working-age population, help people to change their working life and also improve the matching of workers and jobs. Such reform work should be initiated in such a way that the next government programme could include major goals in this regard, that work and knowledge are combined in the life of a person.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u87	Mr President! As I am sure we have all been aware, and we have talked a lot about it today, we are living in a time of enormous change. This change particularly affects work and forms of work, and, as was pointed out in the previous speech, we have a huge need for retraining, further training and conversion. It affects about a million Finns over the next decade or so. The work of 300,000 Finns will end in its present form. Work will disappear, be born and preserved, and the ways and content of working in almost all sectors of the profession will change with technological progress. Looking at the time horizons of the factors of change, it can now be said that technology has already had a significant impact and has had a significant impact in history. During the Sipilä government's period of operation, our country's economy has started to rise well and the employment rate has risen in line with the objectives. One of the basic prerequisites for growth and productivity is the development and introduction of automation. The goal must continue to be that Finland is at the forefront of the development of artificial intelligence. So we take advantage of automation and new technology and attach it to making a person. We must use new technology based on artificial intelligence in all areas of society with courage, ethics and open-mindedness. If we are against development, there is a risk that the number of jobs will be reduced, whereas by accelerating it, the TEM predicts that the number of jobs will increase by up to 5% a year. A practical example of this orthodox use of robotics and artificial intelligence is the New Town Car Factory, the details of which I will no longer go into. Mr President! Future work will change, and this must also be taken into account in the development of our education system. It is not a good idea to reform the education system as separate parts, but to develop it as a whole, with the aim of a complete continuum from early childhood education to higher education, adult education and further education. The level of knowledge and innovation capacity are crucial for productivity development, raising the standard of living and the employment of the individual. The employment rate of those dependent on primary education has continued to decline in the 2000s, while at other levels of education it has remained unchanged. Mr President! When we talk about the change in working life, it is also necessary to highlight the adaptation of our social security system to the needs of future working life. The transformation of work will affect the logic of resource collection at both individual and societal level. Individual ways of organising livelihoods in a way that is different from the traditional definition of wage and salary earners – entrepreneurs – will increase in the future. Our social security system is already difficult to identify hybrid forms of work organisation where a person may have more part-time employment relationships and may also work as a self-employed person or employee through digital service platforms, for example. Work must always be more profitable than mere idleness. Mr President! The aim of the social security reform must be to improve employment and employment. We will need a flexible, supportive and active social security system that will ultimately take care of families and disadvantaged people. The operational expectations set by the basic income type of simplified basic income will only be met when the basic income model is combined with the simultaneous income data from the national income register, including all person's wages, pensions and benefits. In the best case scenario, the register operates in such a way that the amount of social security paid to the citizen is automatically calculated on the basis of the other contributions and contributions declared in the register. Mr President! Finally, I would like to point out that our key challenge in the transformation of work is how to ensure in the future fair financing of the welfare state by means of tax and insurance funds if, as a result of the change in work, a significant part of the change takes place beyond traditional business and paid employment. A comprehensive financial basis for maintaining the welfare state must continue to be ensured. Tax legislation must be reformed to take account of the platform economy and other new ways of working.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u88	Mr President! On this point, it may be said that Parliament is in considerable agreement on what is happening and the challenges facing us, and even on the fact that there are certainly more opportunities than threats in this area. But at the same time, of course, these threats deserve to be answered, because without proper reflection in advance there will then be no safe path to the future. Having strongly stressed here that knowledge is the starting point of everything, that is the tradition of our 100-year history. This nation has always trusted in the power of civilization. Then you have to ask that when we agree on this big issue, how do we actually take it forward? Tomorrow, the government will respond to the interlocutory question which will bring these training issues to the table. However, this extension of compulsory schooling is of particular importance. If we believe that knowledge must be invested, then it must also be reflected in the solutions that Parliament makes for itself. For about ten years now we have been discussing this extension of compulsory education — a decade or so, in fact, just over ten years — and unfortunately there are no sufficient results in this area. But what is gratifying is that more and more people are coming to the same conclusion. If we want to ensure a high level of competence as a key factor in the nation's survival, it must also be visible throughout the world here for young people. The extension of compulsory education is a cure for two things: on the one hand, it is an investment in knowledge and the survival of the nation, but it has already been shown in the past that it is also an important factor in the fight against the exclusion of young people. We know that more than one in ten young men are left behind in primary school without vocational training, and that is where this high risk of exclusion comes into play. And when you look at this rate of development in working life, the death of the professions, the position of those who have been left behind in small basic education, this change is the most difficult. If the initial training is poor, it will also be very difficult to accept the retraining if it is available to adults. This extension of compulsory education would therefore be an urgent matter to be dealt with, preferably during this Parliament. When we do this, the hand responds to what the brain has thought. Then comes this matter of adult competence, which Mr Ihalainen spoke very well about here. This is our long-term observation, and a lot of work has been done to make it easier for adults to have access to further training or retraining, and it obviously requires effective adult education support arrangements. Well, then there is this aspect of the money, and it must be said here that if the findings of the foresight reports and of the parliamentary responses are to live in time, then they would have to lead to adequate resources being shown on the education side. In the debate I mentioned the situation of Metropolia University of Applied Sciences, the largest university of applied sciences in Finland, which has startled me. So, in the middle of all the education debate, in the middle of all the knowledge debate, the country's largest university of applied sciences starts the negotiations because of the decisions made by the state, i.e. the cuts in appropriations, and is about to reduce almost a hundred people — not all of them here, but, in addition to this, have to lay off the entire staff of a thousand people. From that time on, of course, the skills of these young people will remain incomplete, education will not be provided. So we have to talk about these things too. Well, then there has been an interesting reflection here on the link between social security and the change in work, and that is then, ladies and gentlemen, a matter that challenges us all, and there are no easy or simple answers. However, it can be said that Pekka Kuusi, in his philosophy of social policy in the '60s, put his word and task right: in other words, social security must act in such a way as to support economic activity and people's employment. This is the big task that we now have ahead of us: how to build a social security system that makes it easier to return to work, supports work, rewards, encourages work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u89	Mr President! This feedback debate on the report on the future has had a very good debate, and perhaps there is still a few comments to be made on this report itself, but especially on the basis of this report by the Committee on the future. This report on the future was not a bad one either, but I am hating the Committee on the Future: there is still a great deal of work to be done at this stage of the report and a lot of work to be done on this report, and there is a certain amount of work to be done to fill in where there may have been minor shortcomings. When we discuss the future, I have come to mind a statement that an expert at one occasion stated that, in general, when we are trying to predict the future, it is customary for us decision-makers, and perhaps more widely in society, to overreact to changes in the short term, but to sub-react with them in the long term. That is quite an essential point. That means that in the short term, when we usually start to think about what the future holds, we think that it will radically change the current situation, and then perhaps we will draw conclusions from it. However, the fact that, in general, these changes will only appear in the longer term, and then we may be neglecting the decisions that should be taken for a longer period of time. In fact, this is what has just happened in this training debate. This is well illustrated by this debate on compulsory education or, for example, on this adult education: it has been known that it is ahead, but for ten years now it has been said that we should or should not be doing so when we should have put it in order. This happens on many occasions, and of course this also challenges this forward-looking policy, whether it is about social security or many other issues. Well, the second point about this debate on the future is precisely about the balance of threats and opportunities. It is quite clear that, with a dense comb, we need to look through the threats of the future and think about solutions to them, but we should also be able, especially our decision-makers, to highlight those opportunities, because those opportunities are precisely what, in part, will also give people the sense of confidence in the future, that even in the face of this change we can survive, we will be able to go even better. It produces the sense of security we need. Perhaps the third and final point relates to the fact that, when we talk a lot about this change in work, specifically as changes in employment relationships, how many new and new types of employment relationships are created, for example, and how many old types of employment are then replaced, it is precisely the debate on the content of the work itself that changes the way in which the work is done, regardless of the relationship in which it is done. There are good examples of this when we look at, for example, the automobile industry, to which reference has been made many times: this miracle of New Town. In fact, they still have the exact same auto mechanics, but they do a very different job than they did before, regardless of the type of employment they work with. It would be good to be aware of this, because it will become this adult education, that in any case, regardless of the type of employment we all have, the demand for knowledge is constantly growing and should be constantly developed in the work itself. It would be good if this were to come up very broadly and to be tackled. Well, maybe a few more words on this social security package when it looks like there's time on the clock. It is precisely so that social security should also, in principle, be designed to enable us to support people in their ability to work, to raise the employment rate and thus to respond to the fact that in the future we will also have the money that we will then be able to distribute. It is often said that it is enough when someone does 80 % and when the public authorities give it 20 % of the income, but in this sense we really must also say that someone then has to do 120 % so that we have what we can share. And that is why, for example, Mr Satose's attention to this competitiveness of the work is extremely important and should be kept on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u90	Mr President! In my view, there are three things that need to be done: the first is competitiveness, which we have talked about to some extent, the second is what many others have referred to, that is, the combination of social security and work, and the third is greater inclusion. In terms of competitiveness, first of all, Finland is competitive in terms of knowledge, technology and unit labour costs, how our labour markets work, how local agreements work, and in this framework. Considerable progress has now been made in this area. During this parliamentary term, the employment rate has increased quite well, and I think there are 74,000 more jobs than it was at the beginning of this period. Of course, the economic cycle has also been favourable, but the right choices have also been made and things have been taken in the right direction. We should continue along this path because, just as the previous speaker said, the more people who are in full-time employment or entrepreneurial status, the better we can afford to run this whole welfare society. But it is probably honest to admit that in the future, not all people and at all times will be able to work full-time, so we also need to get part-time work to support, a business that may have a lot of work to do, but with a relatively low income. For example, this debate on where the VAT threshold begins is a fundamental issue and how, for example, part-time work can be combined with social security. The British model was mentioned here at least by Peter Östman earlier, and yes, this negative income tax, which has been linked to the fact that there must be income from work, so that you can then also get negative income tax from the state, is one of the key ways of getting people to participate. The unemployment rate in Great Britain is very low. I think there is one way that we should really look at it. And then, of course, it is a question of what Mr Ihalainen referred to, among other things, how, in these situations of change, when a person is between an entrepreneur, between an employee, may have a grant and these situations change, that security is sufficient, but at the same time the incentive is strong enough to be able to take the job. Solving that equation will certainly be the biggest thing in the next parliamentary term, and it is very good, as I know, that many parties are already working on finding solutions to this. Mr President! Finally, I would like to take this inclusion. I think it is very important that as many Finns as possible are involved in this society. When we also have among us those who are currently unable to work — some would want to do so, but they will not be taken to work because the employer does not feel that they will have the same added value in relation to the costs — we must also be able to tackle this problem seriously. The Danish model, which has been mentioned many times here, is very good that we find a solution in which people can participate — whether it is voluntary or whatever, but it may be a step towards getting back into the labour market, or at least it is the solution to staying stuck in life. This is the type of model we need to create, because if many people are excluded from this society — we have already talked about it in Eva’s research, how many tens of thousands of people we have completely excluded from working life — it is, as it were, a social challenge that we must tackle and find common solutions. It is certainly a challenge in which this government has contributed to it a little but not enough, and it will continue to do so, but I believe that it will also be possible to find a constructive solution with a common will.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, in this agreed window of time, we will be able to take one more real speech, and then we will then have to move on to the next item in the order of business and then we will have to stop dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u92	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Sato for including in the definition of competitiveness the word 'knowledge'in a very centred manner and for mentioning technology. It is quite right that these should be included. But, of course, for us Social Democrats, that competitiveness is even more than just the cost of work, technology or knowledge. The question is also, of course, how business as a whole develops, how to get out of Finland, at what price — that is, how logistics and accessibility work — but also at the same time the cost of capital and financing. In this regard, Mr President, it is good that we are talking about the future. In my opinion, far too little is seen in Parliament for the long future, for the next decade and the next, and this is something Sitra's older experts Liisa Hyssala and Jouni Backman paid attention to last week. Perhaps I myself would have liked to add to the Committee on the Future of Europe's motion paragraph 10 to what will be the role of the public sector in the future, the role of the public and private sectors and the relationship, the involvement of organisations in this – in other words, things that we have talked a lot about during this parliamentary term, for example, in connection with social and regional reform. Last summer, for example, the Constitutional Committee set out the role of public authority and what the Constitution and its Article 19 actually mean. This is an interesting question, and this has been studied by Finnish Nobel Prizeists and other researchers, but this is a key issue for the whole Finnish society: how do we develop the public sector, and how do we work together with the private sector and the organisation sector, the so-called third sector? One thing I am quite concerned about relates to Finnish management competence. When we look at this situation, for example, where the provinces and municipalities have drifted under the influence of this government's social and regional performance, we have a bit of a mess at the local level, and often the most confused are the leaders who do not know where this whole thing is going. What does this mean for the productivity of Finnish work, for the productivity of the Finnish social welfare sector? Everyone can guess what that means: productivity is falling. And, in fact, productivity is the 11th thing I would also like to talk about today, because without productivity growth we will not achieve the goals we have in the welfare society. All in all, this management debate: Of course, it is a good question what a good leader is in the public sector, what a good leader is in the private sector, and so on, but when you look at this future, what is being done to Finland now, is forced to separate the organisation and production, especially in the public sector, there are very complex entities that often need to be added to one manager in that subscriber organisation to order that service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u97	The debate on this issue will be suspended. The debate will continue in this plenary session once the other points of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u98	We shall now continue to deal with the third item of the order of business which was suspended earlier in this plenary. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u99	Mr President! There has been a lot of lively discussion about the change in working life. The theme is very important, especially here in Parliament, because today's political solutions determine how Finnish companies and employees will succeed in the work and society of the future. Of course, it is impossible for us to say exactly what timetable and the extent to which the changes outlined in the foresight report will take place, but already working life has changed a lot compared to what it was when, for example, the Finnish social security system was designed. Working life has become more precarious, especially for those at the beginning of their working lives. There are much fewer permanent jobs than before and many are constantly moving from one fixed-term employment relationship to another. There may also be periods of unemployment of different lengths. The nature of the work has also changed. Hours worked and wages may not be fixed. All of this will result in greater mental stress through growing uncertainty, which will be further fed by economic downturns. Some people get totally off the sled and get excluded. In the future, automation and globalisation will increasingly take up not only low-wage jobs but also middle-class jobs. Mr President! What must we, as a society, do to meet these challenges? We must renew our basic security system in such a way that it meets the needs of today and of the future. We need to get rid of the incentive traps, we need to reward the activity, and we must always be tempting to work. Too often, the current system creates situations where receiving work is not an income-enhancing option for a jobseeker due to loss of support. The social security system should remain involved in this development by adapting to the fact that in the future fewer and fewer employees will be in permanent employment with fixed wages and fixed working hours. The share of short-term and part-time work will increase, so attention needs to be paid to this. A good first step would be to raise significantly the limit of the unemployment protection component. This would increase opportunities for the unemployed to do job work and help reduce labour shortages in many service sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u100	Mr President! Earlier today, this picture of future work was already discussed. The report on the future has done a good job, thanks to the Committee on the Future. It is interesting and amazing to note that even now robots are able to perform very demanding tasks, but there are areas where human touch and caring hands will always be needed. These include the health and care sector. A number of speakers also spoke on the subject of Uusikaupunki and the car factory in Uusikaupunki. Since I am from there, of course, the future of the car factory is of interest, and in order for it to go well, it serves the area there in the Uusikaupunki region and the whole of Finland. It is important to keep up with developments in the automotive industry as well. Representative In his speech, Vähämäki said that we should think about what the most beautiful possible Finland of the future is. That was a very nice way to put it. He also spoke of lifelong learning and the work account model presented in the alternative budget for Finns. It is such a new opportunity for enterprise and a very good opening. A lot of improvements need to be made in cooperation between the levels of education. The flexibility of study paths is essential. Digitalism emerges everywhere, it is a great opportunity, but we must not forget, in the digital holocaust, that we have older people and also young people, where rapid technological developments appear even frightening. Access to services and access to employment must not become more difficult at this joint stage as digital development progresses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u101	Mr President! It is very important that the government also brings reports of this kind to Parliament, which are not directly related to current legislation, although, of course, the transformation of work is largely linked to many different pieces of legislation and to our lives in general. Perhaps the debate often exaggerates a little bit about the technological transformation that comes into play in such a large picture, but then, in a smaller picture, it is quite clear that we may not quite understand the scale of what it is going to be. It is terribly important that our social security, as the speakers in the debate earlier in the day, should be such that all kinds of work can be done and that it is always encouraging and profitable. In this, of course, the government's basic income experiment has been an important issue, and I hope that this government will still have time to start, for example, a negative income tax experiment. Now that the National Incomes Register comes into force, we should have every opportunity to do so. As far as these new models of the start-up and sharing economy are concerned, of course, the Committee on the Future will take note of labour law, how it relates to a new group of workers such as this, which is not really an employee or an employer, but rather a self-employed person. The tax issue is also quite interesting. If the platform economy, the sharing economy, is used to make a larger part of the work, then it will be very important for the whole of our tax system, and the committee will make a good point of saying that it is also important for pension accumulations. These traditional systems of ours, as we know, are not easy and simple to change, so perhaps this issue of social security and taxation should have been considered even more in this report by the committees, but this was a very interesting debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u102	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which the Administrative Committee and the Defence Committee must deliver an opinion. The debate on this subject will take place until 7 p.m., i.e. 2.5 hours. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 7 p.m., move on to the next item in the order of business, i.e. paragraph 5. Now we're gonna start a conversation. I would now like to make a few debatable remarks. I would ask those Members who wish to use the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u103	Mr President! This set of intelligence laws includes an exceptionally comprehensive and strong system of supervision and is made up of strong judicial and parliamentary control. The powers of judicial control are very strong, and so are the powers of the future Committee on Intelligence, which has a very wide right to information, and these work in very close cooperation. Intelligence control means all intelligence, both gathering information and where it is going, and now there has been some discussion about the fact that there are some differences of interpretation, and I think it is important now that, at this stage, when this whole matter is being dealt with by the committees, the committees now take sufficient care to analyse this situation and then move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u104	Mr President! This amendment of the Rules of Procedure is now an integral part of this whole, with which the laws of inquiry are being discussed here in Finland and how the Parliament is involved in them. The central point is that Parliament is given the right to monitor the entire operation of the contribution, i.e. the entire operation of the contribution. It cannot be that we create a large apparat to monitor how technical information is collected and what data is collected, but the question is how this information is used, what is the sum of this information doing. In fact, when fundamental citizens' rights are being affected, it is important for the nation to be able to count on this collection of information and its use to have proper, accurate control. The reliability of Supo is at stake here and, in order for this reliability to exist, there must be control over the whole operation of the subsidy, and that is the task of this Committee of Inquiry. I regret that the majority in the Council of Presidents was not yet ready for this solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u105	Mr President! The Parliamentary Committee on Intelligence is becoming a very influential body. It has exceptional rights to information and directs its own control activities. Therefore, the law on which this amendment of the Rules of Procedure is based does not specifically list who it supervises. However, the protection police will carry out a comprehensive security clearance of the members of the committee so that its members can also be provided with information of the highest encryption class. This has raised the question of whether the subject of supervision can assess the reliability of the controller, and I would therefore like to raise the question of whether it would also be up to this intelligence officer to verify what this comprehensive safety report on the members of this monitoring committee is based on in order to dispel the last suspicion that the difficult controllers would be removed from the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u106	Madam President! Here the representatives of Tölli and the plant made a reasoned statement. Indeed, this Committee on Intelligence is given extensive powers and is working with the Intelligence Commissioner, who has powers that no authority in Finland has — and apparently will not — and this does enable the Committee on Intelligence to exercise parliamentary control over this agency’s intelligence activities from beginning to end. This monitoring of the aid is now under discussion in the various committees. It has its own legislation, it has its own control of intelligence, and it is there that it decides exactly what control it is and how extensive it is. This House's Rules of Procedure only concern our internal affairs and our internal affairs only. No matter what we write there, it concerns our internal affairs, and this debate on control must be extended to the intelligence control legislation that is now in the committees and comes to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u107	Mr President! There is therefore a proposal for a Rules of Procedure setting up a new committee to monitor intelligence activities. The duties of this Committee on Intelligence shall be defined in these Rules of Procedure. That is why it is up to Parliament to do what this committee will do in the future. We have proposed that there should be no grey zone when we make sure that democracy also has the opportunity to monitor how, for example, we control democracy. In this respect, this debate is very appropriate when deciding on the Rules of Procedure. I very much regret that, in parliamentary work, there was no response to these proposals either from the point of view of civil servants or even from the government that brought this proposal to Parliament. We asked for negotiations, but they did not happen, and now we are in a situation where the Rules of Procedure are already being closed at the outset, and then people wonder how this happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u108	Madam Speaker! The composition of this parliamentary committee on intelligence is proposed to be 11 members and two alternates, which is a relatively large composition — 13 representatives plus officials — when it comes to classified information. If we compare with other European countries, these committees are generally smaller. Of course, we have that Constitution which brings together the limits of the committee, which will be the 11th, but I think it would be worth considering whether the two alternates really need to be. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the objective of this proposal is that as many parliamentary groups as possible should have their representatives on the committee. In that parliamentary working group chaired by Mr Töll, it was quite unanimous that all parliamentary groups should have their representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u109	Mr President! This legislation is becoming a significant power, a truly significant power, for the head of the subsidy alone to decide matters. Secret information, security reports and, in fact, the management of the entire contribution are being collected for the purpose of combating crime outside its parliamentary power. That is why it is important for Parliament to define this monitoring of the aid as a whole and for the parliamentary committee to be able to intervene in all its aspects when it comes to the operation of the subsidy from the point of view of citizens' rights. I have spoken to a number of people from the protection police, and I can say that the strong message from there to this Chamber is that the supo sees no problem in the fact that the supo is monitored as widely as possible in a way that Parliament controls everything that is done in the subsidy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u110	Madam President! This processing of the intelligence law in this house and then updating these parliamentary procedures in accordance with any future legislation is a normal routine. I don't see any more drama in it. Just like the representative. Mr Tölli mentioned that these legislative proposals should be dealt with with with great care in this House and that wisdom should be given to all the experts who the committees themselves consider necessary and then give the necessary opinions and then move forward. But it is clear, however, that the goal we must keep clear in this regard, which is probably a reasonable requirement. In order to protect our country, we need intelligence legislation that is really capable of securing the future of this country in such a way that threats to us can be prevented or prepared in advance. Now we have such a situation in the country, as we have seen in many newspapers, that only the foreign intelligence services are upsetting our information networks, but
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u111	Mr President! This new parliamentary monitoring committee was organised today and it was said that it, as in the past, is now beginning to follow what is happening in the various committees in Parliament. Then, if there is a situation where, for example, there are some possibilities for compromises, then this parliamentary monitoring committee can be helpful. There are many more problems to be solved here. As I pointed out in previous reading, there are half a dozen committees here which are currently monitoring Supo — half a dozen committees. Now there would be one Committee on Intelligence, then these are half a dozen different committees. I wonder if this is going to be a little too much for these supervisors on the subject of Supo, when it has been said that these old committees will continue as they have been so far. In other words, we will have to think very carefully about what this monitoring process is. Then there's another question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u112	One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u113	Madam President! This parliamentary control committee is very important in the field of intelligence laws. When it comes to the fundamental rights of people and data protection of individuals, that is where supervision is at the heart of the matter and it is important that the committees carefully examine this overall control and how it is sufficient. In fact, there has been much talk of monitoring the Supo. For example, Heidi Mrs Hautala has been raising this issue for years, and it is now good that Parliament can reflect on the monitoring of Supo in this context. Of course, it is important for the Committee on Intelligence to monitor the monitoring function in particular, but it is also possible to consider whether it will monitor the rest. Or, when Mr Salolainen pointed out that there were other committees which were monitoring Mr Supo, it would certainly be possible to look at whether there was sufficient information for the Administrative Committee at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u114	Madam President! It is quite right and justified that this Committee on Intelligence and its preparation should be treated critically. We should have a good debate and take these critical speeches into account. I believe that the task of the Committee on Intelligence is now perhaps overemphasised by the point of view of this supo. One of the key points in the preparation is that we need to get the Committee on Intelligence sufficiently experienced and experienced officials to prepare the work. It should also be borne in mind that the task of the Committee on Intelligence must also be to define objectives in the field of intelligence, to build international cooperation in the field of intelligence, and then to find out where foreign intelligence is focused. We need to be able to discuss things like this, and we need to find a common will on what kind of future, and that's what we're doing there in the follow-up group:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u115	Madam President! This is an essential package of Rules of Procedure, and of course this evening is a good referral debate. In fact, I was rather disappointed when I had imagined that this was the easiest part of this four-pack — these two laws, military and civil, and then this proper judicial control — that Parliament's Rules of Procedure would go unanimously and that all the parliamentarians would agree, and now this became this strange episode that should not have happened. Supo's supervision is indeed being carried out. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Defence do so in some respects, but it is certainly not enough, and that is why it is absolutely essential that, at this point, it should be taken much stronger so that it covers not only the inquiry but also its activities. This does not rule out the fact that the three other committees, as far as I am aware, should still not have the opportunity to discuss the operation of Mr Supo. Then there's this matter of professional secrecy...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u116	Mr President! Our security threats have changed, and that is why the legislation should also be amended. I believe that this law has been prepared very carefully from the very beginning and has had a comprehensive parliamentary preparation under the leadership of Mr Töll, who has done an excellent job. I believe and hope that this will go to the end, because it is certainly in the interests of this nation, and that this package of laws will also be brought into force as quickly as possible. As far as the Council of Presidents is concerned, I personally see that the Council of Presidents is not such a body that it is going to change things like this when it does not even have the opportunity to conduct a reasonable expert consultation, but that the committee is the right place. These things can certainly be put forward in committee, and then it is time to look at it there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u117	Mr President! We are dealing with an important issue when we are discussing the work of the Committee on Intelligence in this situation. I see it in such a way that this matter is now in the hands of the preparatory committees, which have been able to settle this very issue with regard to the monitoring of the aid. I think that it is perfectly possible for the committees to make the relevant clarification if it is based on what the experts are consulted on and on what will then be the outcome of the discussions between them. I think that this is where it is now, and that is the way in which we need to understand the way in which this is going forward. The most important thing is to remember the main thing: we need to update the intelligence, of course, in a way that enjoys confidence both in this house and among the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u118	Mr President! We have actually been talking about this supervision of the protection police for over 10 years, and that is why you may wonder when there has been such a debate over a few days that it has come as a surprise to someone. In the past, both representatives of the government parties and representatives of the present opposition parties have put forward this wide-ranging monitoring. In fact, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also taken a position on this as early as 98 C.E. that this overall supervision of the protection police should be updated. That is why it is strange that, when this has been ground for so many years and now that it is possible to do so, Parliament will have the opportunity to update this control, so here we are now going to start to pull up the cloths and say that the committees will probably look at it. Of course it is seen in the committees, but there is a great deal of weight in how we think about this in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u119	Mr President! There has now been a good debate and we all know that this committee is very necessary, as has been pointed out in these speeches. I personally see, as has been the case in a couple of speeches, that it would be good if it were to represent as many parliamentary groups as possible. The fact that it is now embedded in this kind of committee model, brings of course its own challenges, but I believe that this is nevertheless the best way to organise it. Well, the control of the syphilis is then the second, which is the one that stimulates the most debate at this point. Indeed, Supo is under the control of many committees at the moment, but in practice the work has remained relatively light. The fact that this new committee now has important, extensive control rights in relation to the intelligence part is an excellent one, and I am sure it is also appropriate to examine here whether these other committees, which are carrying out the monitoring of the rest of the contribution, have a sufficient mandate to do this, for example in the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u120	Mr President! When Mr Satonen said that the Council of Presidents is not the right place, I would now like to say to Mr Satonen that this is a proposal from the Council of Presidents. This control of the syllabus is in a strange conkele: here the representatives of the government parties say that it cannot be decided because this is a government proposal. Officials say that the proposal has been made according to the government's policies. And then last week we heard the minister say that this is now in the hands of Parliament. What in the world is being coy or secreted or feared? Why can't we just write this whole issue of monitoring the contribution here so that it's about the whole operation of the contribution, not just how the data are collected, but, above all, about what this data collection is being used for?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u121	Mr President! The essential thing is that this whole intelligence law package can be put to the finish line. It's very important. The second essential point here is that we have common confidence that this system is sound. And now it is not possible to compare the current parliamentary scrutiny with what is now being proposed. The powers of this Committee on Intelligence are in a completely different series, and the core task of this control is to ensure that ‘intelligence activities are approved and proportional’ — as stated — and’it is the task of the committee to monitor the use of their powers by the intelligence authorities for acceptable purposes’. And the committee may itself question or question the officials in charge of the task at any time and ask for further information. Control of intelligence does not just mean the data collection stage — it does not stop there. Intelligence is a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u122	Madam President! Representative Mr Tölli gave a good presentation of these objectives. Of course, it is good to bear in mind that the committees already have very wide access rights to information on a number of issues. Of course, it is up to the committee's own work and the way in which it operates and the desire to ask for those issues to be dealt with and the information that it considers necessary. In this case, the Committee on Defence, the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs are then these critical committees which can ask for these important issues, and now this Committee on Intelligence. The fact that there are 11 members satisfies me very well. It can't be too big. And I am very pleased that all groups are involved. That's exactly how it's supposed to be. And I am very pleased that the safety report that is then accepted is being carried out and that a person is considered worthy of trust. The supo also needs trust from us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u123	Mr President! It is justified here, as Mr Kiuru did before, that other committees could monitor, for example, the aid. I quote an experienced former parliamentarian who describes this activity, the supervision of the other committees, as a ‘general presentation in a cup of coffee’. I saw Kimmo Sasi, former Chairman of the Constitutional Committee. And right after that, he insisted that the aid be brought under parliamentary control. A good demand, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, namely that in 21 EU countries there is a parliamentary supervisory body for the security police. Others even have two supervisory bodies. It is now a question of the Council of Presidents' task here being all of a matter of intelligence. It is in everyone's interest that the whole monitoring of the aid should be resolved in this context. If there are new rights, the controls must be in order. Mr President! It is unfortunate that on such a question,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u124	Mr President! There has not yet been sufficient discussion of the amazing fact that the Council of Presidents of Parliament is prepared here to reduce, limit and weaken the role of Parliament and its representative by bringing into this context Article 43c, which extends and criminalises the obligation of professional secrecy, into the confidentiality clause. Confidentiality regarding national security is a serious matter, but the request for confidentiality concerns situations in which Finland conducts international negotiations. The limits of this silence are already too tight at present, as has been seen in situations where a large committee has not been able to hold a political debate for a week and it has been unclear what the limits are that can be used. But it is not in any case that it may be a criminal act, and now that this is introduced as a new article, then the court is obliged to interpret it as an activity governed by criminal law. It is incomprehensible that Parliament itself is prepared to weaken the position of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u125	There are still a few requests to speak, and we are going to have to take a little more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u126	Madam President! To this silence and criminalization. It is already legislation in force; this non-disclosure offence is mentioned in the Criminal Code. It is already legislation in force. In many committees, where, in English, there is a paper marked ‘to be kept secret’,at such a time as it leaks information,it is unfortunate that it has beencriminated. There is no way in which this is going to expand. It is another matter that, as a rule, the affairs of this Committee on Intelligence are secret, unlike those of other committees, but it does not change that in any way to this impunity. It is worth sticking to this, which is already the current legislation. This certainly does not restrict the freedom of expression of any Member of Parliament any more than it does, but it does include the provisions in force which are in the penal code. They were meant to be placed there in an informative form, as they were.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u127	Madam President! It seems to me that in this debate on the control of the aid, something is being said to pass one another, for even now the operation of the aid is not excluded from this parliamentary control, which is, at the moment, essentially parliamentary control, both the intelligence side and the sector. To this request by the Social Democrats that the whole operation of the subsidy and the inquiry should come under the control of this committee of inquiry, I personally see no obstacle. In my opinion, it is a very logical consequence of the fact that the aid is becoming more and more clear precisely an intelligence organisation, not so much a police organisation, but an intelligence organisation. Then it is very logical that the whole of the operation of the supo with its enquiries should be in the hands of this committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u128	Mr President! Yes, this request for secrecy, mentioned in Article 50 of the Constitution, which may be made by a large committee or by a Committee on Foreign Affairs when the information discussed in the committee could jeopardise Finland's negotiating position in international negotiations, is quite different from this confidentiality act. There are no precise definitions, there are no sanctions. For the first time, these two things are being confused, just as Mr Tolvanen here mixed up these two things together. We have asked the legal professor in office whether the criminal law currently concerns secrecy, and the requests for the secrecy of these committees alone cannot be subject to criminal law. Now, for the first time, they are linked by Parliament itself. This has already proved to be too strict, too open to interpretation and too vague. Tell us in this Chamber exactly what the limits are at the moment before, as Mr Satonen said, the Council of Presidents without proper preparation and expert consultation will tighten up existing legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u129	Let me give you four more answers: representatives of Tolvanen, Rinne, Satonen and Heinäluoma. Then let us go to the list of speakers and then, if necessary, we shall continue to debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u130	Mr President! Indeed, these rules of silence do not fall within the scope of criminal law — it is quite clear, it is existing legislation. But then, if there is a secret document with such a red stamp, which seems to be quite a hobby nowadays, if it reveals information about that document, it is already punishable, even for a Member of Parliament. It is also punishable by an official. This is certainly not an extension of any parliamentary secrecy in this regard. Well, that's different when the intelligence committee comes in. As I said, they are, as a rule, confidential, but the committee can decide that they are public if there is no reason to keep them secret. But there will be no additions to the confidentiality of individual MPs. That it is worth reading, and perhaps it is worth some orientation in the parliament this arranges, but this is not changed in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u131	Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u132	Mr President! There is no doubt that this issue requires careful scrutiny, and it would of course be extremely valuable for the work of the committees if it could be said on the part of the government parties that the whole control of the government parties will fall into the committee's remit. That would provide political guidance for the work of the committees. If it is not said, then the suspicion remains that, for some strange reason, this is still inconceivable, even though this has been proposed 20 years ago and the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and since then several political groups have been behind it. Great authority comes to the new head of the syllabus. He alone makes decisions on foreign intelligence, including the intelligence or espionage of Finnish citizens abroad. He also decides to invite foreign intelligence services and give them operational rights. From start to finish, this whole requires parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u133	Your Honor! Mr Tölli, I would like to say to you about the intelligence package that it is certainly clear to us all that intelligence as such is now under the control of the subsidy, but what is essential is that... Here I listed those tasks that are not covered by the supervision of the contribution. They're the secret intelligence acquisition of crime prevention, security clearances, and the management of the entire contribution. And just as we have just heard about Mr Heinäluoma, the very important decision-making power, the power over the people, will be exercised by the head of the syphilis in the future. That is why it is important to have the entire operation of the subsidy, all the activities of the subsidy, as requested for 20 years, subject to parliamentary scrutiny by Parliament. Then I would like to say, Mr Tolvanen, that it is quite clear that a request for silence is different from a secret document: a request for silence does not lead to impunity, a request for silence does not lead to impunity. This is a good thing to understand now in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u136	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Haraka and to Mr Rinne that, if anything was made clear in the Council of Presidents' deliberations, it was that the legal situation in this matter did not change, and that was a key issue. And I agree with Mr Tolvanen that, if you do not believe us, you should be familiarised with Parliament's officials on this matter. That was quite clear and makes these two things different. Instead, if the proposals put forward by the Social Democrats in the Council of Presidents had been included in this Rules of Procedure, significant changes would have been made. And on that we can then have two opinions on whether they are good or bad, but there would have been significant changes, and I do not think it is possible to make such major changes without a thorough consultation of experts in the committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u137	Let's take one more time while we have names here, Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u145	At this point, let us go on the list of speakers, as I said just now. We will have a debate here and there, but the first person to ask for the floor is Mr Räsänen Päivi. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u146	Madam President! This proposal by the President-in-Office to set up a Committee on Intelligence and parliamentary control has been very carefully prepared. It is, of course, based on previous preparations, but also, to a very large extent, on the role of the representative. The debate and the line taken in the parliamentary monitoring group led by Mr Töll, including the name of this Committee on Intelligence. I would also like to say that, although these tensions seem to exist here, the debate in that parliamentary monitoring group has, in my opinion, been very constructive and one-way. It is good that we will continue to have this parliamentary observatory, which will then follow up on this issue. Now that intelligence legislation is new in Finland – hopefully in the future – it is also good to mirror this plan and practice of parliamentary control and supervision of this intelligence activity in general to international experience. The vast majority of European countries have intelligence legislation, which allows for example this cross-border data intelligence, and they have very different practices and experience of this parliamentary control. In Sweden, for example, whose legislation is quite similar to that which is now being sought, there is no parliamentary supervisory body, but the Committee on Defence is carrying out this parliamentary control. In Norway, on the other hand, parliamentary control and judicial control are not even clearly separated from each other, but there are seven members elected by a delegation of seven members, which, although reflecting political power, does not include Members of Parliament. Well, in Denmark there is a five-member Committee on Intelligence, elected by Parliament, as well as in the Netherlands, with a four-member Committee on Security and Intelligence. In Italy, it is a committee of ten members and is always run by a representative of the opposition. Well, these experiences are indeed different, but it has to be said that the composition of this committee proposed to Finland is rather large, given the delicate nature of the issues under discussion, that this committee should not leak information forward. After all, there was a debate on a smaller composition, but it would have required a change in the constitution governing the size of the committees, which, in principle, would be possible now that the Constitution is being proposed to be amended anyway. But here the President-in-Office is proposing that, in addition to the 11 Members who have been presented, two additional alternates should be elected, which, in practice, means that I understand that these two alternates will certainly have the opportunity to attend the meetings and must also be covered by this security report and are also subject to this silence. In other words, actually 13 Members and officials are at the centre of this secret information, and I think it is good to consider whether those alternates really are necessary. Finally, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is important for the credibility of this monitoring of intelligence to be politically representative, i.e. that the various political groups are represented there and that all parliamentary groups have their representatives there. Here I would like to express the wish that it should not be the case that smaller groups will then be present only as an alternate, but I think it is important that all the parliamentary groups have the proper place there. When this proposal of the Council of Presidents thus states that ‘the mostdimensional group will have its representatives in the committee’,this has not satisfied the sky,for example,that the monitoring group was conducting and conducting a debate, Then there is one important question, which I think is very important in the committee, which is the link between this judicial control and then parliamentary control, the question of whether the parliamentary committee should have a role to play in the election of an intelligence supervisory officer. In Germany, for example, it is a practice for the judicial supervision of intelligence activities to be carried out by the so-called G10 Commission, which consists of a qualified President and three members. They shall be appointed for the duration of the parliamentary term by the Supervisory Committee, i.e. by the Supervisory Committee, to appoint this guardian of the law. In a way, I would regard it as a minimum that the Committee on Control should at least be consulted on the election of this intelligence officer. I would like to return to this debate on what was happening here in the Chamber on the proposal of the Social Democrats or on the demand that the protection police should act. [EeroHeinäluoto]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u147	Mr President! An amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure has been tabled by the Council of Presidents. This amendment of the Rules of Procedure is necessary in order to get the Parliament of the whole of the Intelligence Act package in order to ensure that the Committee on Intelligence is able to monitor the use of the new intelligence mandates that have been submitted to Parliament. The intelligence package talks about a very large number of new intelligence powers. That is why the Socialist Group in Parliament demands that the monitoring of intelligence and its use of information be comprehensive and that there should be no dark corners or grey areas left behind. Mr President! I regret to say that the Council of Presidents cannot give it full stylistic points. This is a whole which in all cases requires a greater consensus in Parliament. A broad consensus is needed in Parliament for the entry into force of the intelligence law packages, and unfortunately the Government—Opposition arrangement has now also entered the Council of Presidents for the first time, for the first time in history, when a proposal for Parliament’s Rules of Procedure was made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u154	Mr President! It is horrendous that the Council of Presidents of Parliament is prepared to weaken the role of Parliament and its representative. It is an important task for Parliament to take care of parliamentaryism, regardless of who is in the government and who is in the opposition. The government must defend the rights of the opposition, and the opposition must commit itself to the same when it is in the government itself. The positions are changing, the matter remains, and that is a parliamentary democracy. After all, two weeks ago the Presidents gave their assurances that they are defending Parliament, and now two weeks later we are in a situation where we need to discuss precisely who is defending Parliament and the role of Parliament. Above all, we are talking about a new paragraph in the Rules of Procedure, Article 43c, which links the obligation of professional secrecy to this clause of confidentiality and confuses the two issues, which have already been heard in this Chamber. After all, this was not on the table in any preparation, and no commentator has required this, but is therefore Parliament's own addition. And it is all the more wonderful that, as Mr Satonen has said here, the Council of Presidents is unable to prepare and consult ‘reasonably experts’ so that this is generally not the case, as Mr Satonen has said. The requirement of silence is not part of the criminal code, as Mr Tolvanen said last time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u163	Madam President! The preparation of new intelligence legislation has been accompanied from the outset by a question of supervision of intelligence activities. In the parliamentary monitoring group on the preparation of legislation, we went through various options to organise parliamentary control. Given the significant interference of intelligence with the fundamental rights of citizens, such as the secret of a confidential message, it is important, in the light of both the Constitution and international human rights treaties, that democracy should be able to participate in the control of public action. The solution now being proposed for the Committee on Intelligence to be set up in Parliament was ultimately considered to be the most justified in that monitoring group. In order to actually control the authorities in the field of intelligence, it is proposed that the committee be given extensive access rights. The information received by the new committee will include confidential and widely confidential information. That is why it has been decided that the size of the committee would be as small as possible, with 11 members and 2 alternates. The Council of Presidents proposes that the Committee on Intelligence should be subject to a more stringent confidentiality code than the other committees. In contrast to the general orientation of publicity, the main rule would be that the documents of the committee are kept confidential. The documents would only be public if it was obvious that providing information about them would not cause any significant damage to Finland’s international relations or endanger international security. The article could also be written on a publicity basis, as in general, even if the content were the same, for example, in such a way that the committee's documents are public, except if information about them could cause significant damage to Finland's international relations or jeopardise international security. Mr President! The composition of the Committee on Intelligence would be decided by the parliamentary groups as the composition of the other committees will be decided. In view of the Committee's extensive right to information, it is proposed that a comprehensive safety report be carried out on candidates for committee membership. A comprehensive safety report could also be carried out on close relatives of candidates for committee. A report would be made by the Protection Police at the request of the Speaker of the Parliament. The written consent of the target MP and the next of kin would be required for the report to be carried out. According to a proposal from the Council of Presidents, the security report would serve as information when Parliament took a decision on the elected MPs to the Committee on Intelligence. ‘In the proposed procedure,it is only necessary to The procedure leaves the election of members to the political discretion of Parliament and no decision-making power to the protection police. Parliament shall not be bound by the report received.’ It is quite a novelty to carry out a security report on MPs when they are elected to the committee. To some extent, it is unclear what kind of procedure would be followed in practice, what kind of findings of inquiry would prevent Members of Parliament or relatives from entering the committee — these should be imagined. Who would be informed of the worrying findings? Probably not for the whole parliament, maybe not for the whole parliamentary group either. The President-in-Office's proposal is scarce on this point. It merely states: ‘After having received the draft safety report as a member of the committee,the President of the Council I find it strange that the chairman of the parliamentary group is not given any role in this context, that he is not mentioned here. How would the privacy of the records found to be suspicious by the investigation be protected? How to ensure the protection of a person from stigmatisation if he has been in his parliamentary group publicly, at least partially publicly, on the condition that he has been nominated to the committee, but there is a surprising obstacle to membership: what does he start to look like? How do we proceed in a situation where a security report on the representative's next of kin leads to findings, which is why the MP loses its chances of being in committee? Will the MP then be informed of the findings of his next of kin’s security report, perhaps surprising findings? These are the kind of things we should think about. The questions may be theoretical, but such situations are possible. Despite these difficult problems, I think that the use of a security report may be a good way of promoting the proper functioning of the Committee on Intelligence. The fact that a person seeking to enter a committee has to go through a comprehensive security report is likely to act as an effective, preventative filter and make risk persons think twice before announcing their wish to be members of the Committee on Intelligence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u164	Mr President! First of all, the important starting point is that we need new intelligence legislation, legislation which at the same time safeguards the activities necessary for the security of the nation but at the same time protects the fundamental rights and privacy of citizens. And in order to achieve such a balance between security considerations, privacy and the secret of communication, the only reliable means of doing this is effective, accurate and control over the whole of this area. The key, therefore, is how military intelligence and protection police control are organised. In connection with this proposal, it has become apparent that the subsidy is becoming a new office of power and that the head of the subsidy is the most powerful person in the service. There is a huge amount of information on his desk, information based on communication traffic from Finland and, of course, the other information that is already coming to the supo. The Head of the Protection Police is also entitled to make a decision on foreign intelligence, who will be asked, what will be asked and, of course, how to inquire. On the other hand, this activity is often referred to as espionage by other countries. However, intelligence is perhaps an easier term in this context. And still, the head of the supo would have the right to make a decision that would give foreign intelligence services operating rights in Finland. Each of these issues would require a careful and precise debate here in Parliament and also a proper civil debate, such as this foreign inquiry, which means that Finnish citizens abroad can be observed, investigated or followed up on their telecommunications services without any specific court rulings. As far as military intelligence is concerned, it is proposed that the subjects of intelligence, i.e. what matters are to be clarified and what is to be investigated and what is to be done, and what is to be done with that inquiry, are matters in which priorities and arguments must be addressed in the Government's Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, chaired by the President of the Republic. It is therefore a political decision which military intelligence will follow and where priorities will be put. On the foreign intelligence side, there is no such political debate in the Government's Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security. However, it may be asked whether there are grounds for different procedures between the military intelligence and the intelligence carried out by this subsidy. In both cases, it is a tough issue, and it is clear that not all the measures that will be allowed here will be taken by every foreign authority with great encouragement or positiveness. So it is also a question of external relations and the impact of these measures on external relations. Of course, espionage is commonplace in today's world, it is done by many countries. We know that the United States has been monitoring telephone traffic, even as regards Chancellor Merkel in Germany, and that other Heads of State have also been monitoring and providing information. It is also known that, in commercial terms, it is quite common for large countries, in particular, to entrust their intelligence services with the task of monitoring commercial companies or trade negotiations, and this monitoring is carried out not only in the direction of competitors but also in the direction of more or less hostile or anti-resistance states, but also among friends. We know that the more sparse the country, the more such inquiry occurs. Now that Finland goes along with this circle, the starting point must be that the criteria and objectives that are being pursued are under democratic control, and that also means a reduction. I therefore consider it justified that the operation of the subsidy abroad should be properly dealt with in the Government's Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. And then comes this parliamentary control. It is necessary to do so in such a way that the will of the people involved in this Parliament is realised and that the representatives through the representatives can see that this contribution is carried out on objective, acceptable grounds. There must be no political bias in that action and the information coming from it must not be used in any way for political purposes. It is equally important that the aspects of individual protection and legality of citizens are properly addressed. This is an important issue, too, because of what we have heard about the police dealing with drugs. After all, the criminal proceedings of Aarnio, the head of the Helsinki Narcotics Police, have revealed to us striking features of the wrong, unacceptable and illegal conduct of the police courts given, things that have not come up under normal supervision or under normal supervision. So it is important that the overseer has an overseer and that the overseer has access, if necessary, to all the information required for the oversight. Protection police control has been discussed for a long time as such. As mentioned above, Parliament's committees have drawn attention to this on various occasions. Twenty years ago, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, acting unanimously, has already put forward parliamentary scrutiny of the activities of the so-called'supreme', and then, in addition, various parliamentarians and politicians at different stages in the last ten years have often made proposals on this issue. This proposal to monitor the overall functioning of the subsidy cannot therefore come to anyone reading the magazines from the bushes, not to mention the positions taken earlier by the representatives of the various parties. Now this issue needs to be resolved, because if Parliament does not take care of proper supervision in this context, you may ask when there will be a moment when an organisation for this kind of intelligence, surveillance and also espionage will be subject to democratic control. It is important for Parliament that the Parliament within itself knows how the division of duties between the various bodies is carried out and what is the parliamentary committee that is primarily responsible. That is why this matter has to be decided by the Rules of Procedure — the Rules of Procedure list the tasks of the Committee on Intelligence. On the other hand, the committee's information is linked to these tasks. In carrying out its duties, the committee shall be entitled to this specified information. So the Rules of Procedure are the point where the position is taken. It would have been desirable for this to have been prepared on a broad basis so that, as usual, we would have a unanimous proposal after the discussions. Now this work is being passed on to the parliamentary committees, and it is clear that the committees are going to have to spend quite a bit of time on this, so that there is a common understanding of how we want to carry out the monitoring of the aid and how it is being done so that there is no doubt that something is being hidden or something is being hidden. We must therefore look at all the committees and, of course, it is essential that, in doing this work, the committees are able to cooperate in such a way that these various parts of the legislative package — civil, military, parliamentary and constitutional — go in the same direction. So it also requires Parliament's own work. Then let me say a few words about this safety report. I would argue that the committees would require an international comparison of whether the parliaments of other countries with similar rights have in place such a report on the representatives of a controlled organisation, the security police, as a condition for such scrutiny. In my opinion, it is an exceptional and constitutionally interesting situation: the people choose a parliament with the highest authority in Finland, then there will be another organization that will begin to examine whether the mandate of the people can carry out the task shown by the Parliament. Although this opinion is not a decision in nature, it is nevertheless very important. Once the safety report has been discussed, we have not been able to resolve it at least so far in the public debate, which is a comprehensive safety report. I think it is justified that this should also be dealt with and, moreover, whether a person is entitled to have access to this report, whether he can say something about it himself or whether it is of such a secret nature that the person himself has nothing to say about it. And then to this question of secret orders and secrecy: When it is said that it is not the intention to change the current state of affairs, I will ask why we want to include a number of points in Parliament's Rules of Procedure on this matter. After all, Parliament's Rules of Procedure are a legal provision. At the moment, we already have situations in which we can say that secrecy is far too far-reaching for the functioning of democracy. Let me just take the example of the fact that the parliamentary committee, such as the large committee, has to take a stand on behalf of the whole Parliament, for example, this third package of support for Greece, and then the starting point is that what the government tells the committee is classified, or it becomes a silence clause, and then it should not even be discussed within its own parliamentary group, and it is required that the parliamentary committee should approve the use of hundreds of millions of euros of tax resources — in a bad case, if these aid packages are realised — and he should do so in such a way that he should not even discuss the views of this issue within his own parliamentary group. After all, it is a rather disproportionate situation, and there are more than one of these cases. The starting point would have to be, contrary to what is being proposed here in its entirety, that, within the framework of the request for silence, the MP has the opportunity to discuss the matter within Parliament with those to whom this matter should be addressed in any case. It is clear that the responsibility for these decisions lies with a wider number of members of the committee. It is the responsibility of the whole parliamentary group, the whole party that has been in favour of such support packages if something should happen. This should be clarified. To date, no one has said in this debate how absolutely certain this is at the moment. There have been speeches here that the request for silence does not fall within the scope of secret orders, that it does not become punitive, but there are other kinds of speeches: there are also interpretations that if you violate the request for secrecy, you are among the penal code of criminal law. And when that is the case, for the work of Parliament, this would be an issue that would require proper clarification and consideration of how this should be so that democracy can function, so that the voters have the right to the information they need for their own decision-making, so that journalists also have the opportunity to do their own work. The method of preparation chosen here, which assures us that nothing will change and puts a criminal law clause in the Rules of Procedure, is quite questionable. After this debate, I still cannot give the honourable Member certain instructions on how to proceed in the event of a silence order. If I cannot give it myself as the former President so that I can trust that it is certainly the right advice, I will remain and ask how many other Members of Parliament can certainly say how this is going to be. And then if the confusion results in fines or imprisonment, then it is a reasonable punishment for confusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u165	Mr President! It is regrettable that this amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure is already here in Parliament. We do not even know yet what changes Parliament is making to the government's proposal for a law on intelligence control. A better time would have been when the intelligence laws were adopted but have not yet entered into force. Then more representatives would have had time to study the intelligence laws in the committees, which would probably have spared us the bubbling parasites around the Rules of Procedure. In that case, the parliamentary groups would have had time to work on the amendments required by the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Intelligence. So what's going on? The Act on Intelligence obliges Parliament to set up a Committee on Intelligence, which is responsible for overseeing all Finnish intelligence activities. I mean, everything. The committee is deliberately left with the power to decide for itself how to exercise its control. This is definitely the strength of the Committee on Intelligence, not the weakness. This is important, for example, in telecommunications intelligence, where the practical connections to telecommunications networks are implemented by the Finnish Separate Networks Ltd, not by the National Protection Police or the Intelligence Department of the Headquarters. In any case, the Committee on Intelligence monitors intelligence activities, including the intelligence activities of the protection police, more thoroughly and deeply than any authority has previously been monitored in Parliament. However, the problem seems to have been the police missions still left for the protection police. Although the protection police will continue to be, to a large extent or even to a large extent, different from the one they used to be, because it will lose most of its police powers and gain new powers of intelligence and more staff, it will continue to have some police tasks, such as the preparation of security investigations. However, they are not intelligence, and the powers of the Committee on Intelligence come from the law on intelligence control and concern intelligence. At least I cannot read Chapter 1, Section 2 and Chapter 2 of that law and their justifications other than that. Parliament's Rules of Procedure cannot take precedence over the law. As long as we know what that law is after all. Perhaps the role and name of the Committee on Intelligence is indeed decided to be changed in Parliament, and that is also possible. Mr President! Parliamentary control of police activities, including police duties remaining with the protection police, is a matter for the Administrative Committee. However, it does not, as is well known, have the same rights to information as is being given to the Committee on Intelligence and Parliament's committees have not met very deeply with the authorities they supervise. I therefore believe that it is worthwhile to focus on improving the powers of the Administrative Committee as part of the monitoring of all police activities, particularly with regard to the use of secret coercive measures. Their internal control has, as is well known, failed badly in the police, and they are calling for an active parliamentary control over the role of coffee. Mr President! A comprehensive security report to the members of the Committee on Intelligence has raised the question of whether a security investigation officer could prevent himself from being admitted to the committee by an undesirable person. The idea may seem far-fetched, but doubt alone may be enough to endanger confidence in the protection police. It could therefore be justified to include in the tasks of the Intelligence Commissioner the verification of the security clearances of these members of the Committee on Intelligence. Mr President! With regard to the clarifications of the duty of professional secrecy which have been presented to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I believe that they too would have required a debate among the parliamentary groups, especially since these Rules of Procedure' confidentiality clauses have been extended to committees other than the Committee on Intelligence, which has led to the opening of the Rules of Procedure in the first place. What the worst part is, the changes were taken by voting through, one even by the chairman's vote after the votes have gone evenly. If anything, then Parliament's Rules of Procedure, should be backed up by as broad a support and confidence as possible, not by a vote of 8-8. I am sure that it would have been possible to find wordings that would not have had to be put to the vote in the Council of Presidents by a small sitting here, and it would not have been necessary to debate today in this Chamber what “discipline ” means in the New English Dictionary. After all, there would have been no hurry, because there is still time for the intelligence laws to come into force. We do not need these changes yet. For example, ‘the risk of national security’ is ‘on the basis of In the worst case scenario, it can be used to try to put pressure on the Member of Parliament to keep quiet. In this time, the idea of exerting pressure on a Member of Parliament may seem distant, but it is Parliament's Rules of Procedure that must also work in different times. There have been other kinds of times in the history of Finland before, and they can also be met in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u166	Madam President! The representative, Mr Planti, has just made an excellent speech on the role of the Committee on Intelligence and on the possibility of obtaining information and its functioning, and has also rightly stated that this Parliament's Rules of Procedure cannot pass this law, which deals with the monitoring of intelligence activities. So that is exactly what it is, and it is great that these issues are now being dealt with by the committees, and I believe that there will be a solution here too. However, these things are not so much bigger than life, as has been discussed here. But briefly from this Committee on Intelligence. It is stated here that ‘the core task of parliamentary control of intelligence activities is to monitor that intelligence activities In addition, it is stated that:‘The committee’s role Monitoring and evaluation of the priorities for intelligence And :‘In principle,the committee would not act in any way that is Adding to it this intelligence officer, who is an official, an impartial official, an independent official who is able to perform some kind of tricks — he is able, among other things, to perform surprise checks on the protection police, to have access to all the documents of the protection police, he is able to attend a secret hearing at the District Court of Helsinki, when the protection police are seeking powers, for example, for telecommunications interception or some other secret coercion — and when this committee and this delegate are working closely together, we are, after all, creating a system that is proven to be the most effective monitoring system and comprehensive of Western countries, the EU, perhaps even the world. In fact, as has been said here in Parliament, three committees are already overseeing the protection police. In addition to that, these new ones will indeed come, this intelligence officer, and the Helsinki District Court will supervise the protection police in the coercive measures that must be allowed to be applied for from the District Court. In addition, there are external controllers, currently the Data Protection Supervisor, the Equality Ombudsman, the Equality Ombudsman, who supervise the protection police. They'll stay with us, too. The Ministry of the Interior is overseeing the protection police. In addition to that, there's internal law enforcement in the protection police, and above all... There are unfortunate cases, isolated cases, but I'm sure this room and I trust a Finnish official in principle. Finnish officials are honest people and they are trying to comply with this legislation, which is laid down here. And if anyone is there who does not, I assure you that this control mechanism and mechanism will certainly catch up, it will certainly catch up with this method and with this mechanism. In other words, we are creating the EU, the westernmost comprehensive surveillance of the protection police and the most effective control. It may even be the most comprehensive and efficient in the world. After all, they say that once a week there will be an inspection by a law enforcement officer, and that is justifiable. In the future it will be justified to have such extensive powers of control, but now that this control is so wide-ranging, there will be so many of these controllers, it actually comes to mind that there will be a lot of traffic there, so that we will have to share the number at the door of the syllabus who will be watching today. Of course, this issue has now been exacerbated, but let us think more about this monitoring. This is something we should think about when it is internal, external, it is forward, real-time, after-sales, there is legality control, parliamentary control, that somehow we need a little bit of this work. We need judicial control, we need parliamentary control and we need them to work smoothly together, so at least we need to talk to them when we have — not mentioned — the Ombudsman, the Chancellor of Justice, who, in my opinion, are at least very reliable people who carry out this control. We must now allow the committees to do this work in peace, which is theirs. After that, there is a need to discuss with these high judicial authorities how we will coordinate this judicial control and this parliamentary control. They're all needed together. As I said, this must be coordinated, and it must also be brought to that practical level in such a way that it is effective. But it must also be said that the staff must be involved in this, that they must also understand it and accept it as such a motivating activity and not as a trampling activity. It is important, sell in the right way this all control. But, as I said at the outset, Madam President, I believe that this is something that can now be resolved here. There have been worse things going on here, and I'm sure there will be, but I think we'll find out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u167	Let's go on the list for a while, Mr. Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u168	Madam President! Last week, the three parts of this four-part package were discussed, and today there is this one part which is very relevant and legislative, although it is called the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. In addition to the actual two intelligence laws and judicial control, there would therefore be a parliamentary committee for parliamentary scrutiny, with 11 representatives. There was a brief discussion about whether there should be a more loose definition of how many parties or all parties. This is certainly not the way to look at it, because we have experience of this in recent years, that new parties and parties are going to be split up in the middle of the parliamentary term, when it would be in a situation where the size of its committee would be between about 8 and 20 people, and it is certainly not appropriate to move on to it. Rather, I had thought at some point that the group would be quite small, because the processing of information and, in particular, the processing of secret information would be as small as possible and that discussions could take place. But the proposal for 11 is very well-founded. Then, with regard to these safety reports: This even sounds funny to me that the safety reports are being carried out by the authority that this committee is actually going to supervise. I believe that there are many question marks in it, for example, which Mr Kantola has just pointed out that how this information spreads or whether it spreads about the person who is nominated to the committee or about his family. And here, of course, we can also assess what is the next of kin and the surrounding environment, and if they all have a comprehensive security clearance, how many people it really affects. [Interjection] Then there is this parliamentary control: I have said incorrectly that there are three committees actually monitoring the contribution and this activity. There is a Committee on Constitutional Affairs, an Administrative Committee, a Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also a Committee on Defence, which is four committees in practice. But the current level of control is quite different, because it is different and very different at the moment. But also yes it is more about such general information and answers to questions about what in these committees, of which I myself have been allowed to have several years already, has so far at least been done with regard to the syphilis. Now to this process: In this respect, confidence in parliamentarianism and parliamentary decision-making and respect for parliamentarianism was, in my opinion, a knock-on, at least from my own view, where this Rules of Procedure could not be unanimously dealt with and brought here to the Chamber. Mr Plant said just now that this would not have been a matter of urgency, and that is also my question: should it not have been worth taking the time and the time to reconsider these few questions which were not completed there during the Council of Presidents' deliberations or came as a result of the vote? The first was this serious security threat. In other words, we would have liked to see particular emphasis placed on the fact that it is not just a threat or a threat, but a serious threat, so the definition would be a little more limited. The second is this obligation of professional secrecy. I am well aware — and that is why there is Article 43b here, which specifically provides for this future committee — that this information is classified and then accompanied by this criminal liability. But I was not really able to think when I was also allowed to participate in these statements of intelligence in the debate and in the statement that there would be some kind of Article 43c — which suddenly exposes all committees to this same interpretation, so that the obligation of professional secrecy can be interpreted as being the same as the obligation of professional secrecy. I do not believe that this was the case at the time, or I have not, at least, understood or read it, and that is why we proposed that this paragraph should have been omitted at this point and that it should have been left out as it is at the moment, that the obligation of professional secrecy applies to what the committee decides among itself, that this matter should be kept confidential and that the obligation of professional secrecy applies to what usually comes with those red stamps to that committee in advance. In my opinion, these have been different things so far, and now it seems to me that in this section they want to put them on the same line. At that point, that criminal responsibility does not in any way fall within the remit of Parliament. We have different processes on the part of the police, which then take this side forward. Nevertheless, in any case, this committee is needed. Then this third issue, which was voted on there, was the monitoring of the aid, which has already come up with a number of good arguments over the evening. If one sentence states it, then when monitoring the information, why not monitor the use of information, or what does it do with it? The second question is that, now that the role of the aid has changed so enormously if, in the future, what might be necessary, the actual contribution of the aid were to be substantially reduced. But now there is still quite a lot of this. Then, as a second point of view: However, when power is concentrated on the management of the supo so significantly, that is, mainly on one person, on this basis too, that one person would be subject to control. We have reliable officials and, of course, we want everyone to always act reliably and in the best way, but we can also come to different times in Finland — and if you look back on history, there have been different times — when it is not necessarily fair what the intelligence has done or will be able to do in the future if you want to abuse it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u169	Madam President! I have been a little confused about this debate and, for my part, I will say only a few things. Firstly, this preparation of intelligence legislation by Parliament has been very comprehensive and on a parliamentary basis. In this context, it is good to thank the parliamentary monitoring group led by Mr Tapani Töll for the good work it has done and has gained the confidence of us all. It should be remembered that we are not here to jump out of an airplane without a parachute, although some of the speeches might suggest that we are going completely wrong. Firstly, this preparation, as I said, has been comprehensive and thorough. The need for this legislation is urgent. After all, it is completely incomprehensible that the surrounding security world has changed in a really bad way over the last few years, and no Finn or anyone in this house can say that this law is not needed. I'm sure they will. It is strange that in the Finnish information networks at present, the intelligence of foreign states is being harassed by people using modern tools, which are enormous. There's so many of them, I don't even think we know that. For example, there are people here in the city whose main task is to spy on what is happening in this country — with what names or tasks, that is, of course, what those people are not telling us. But we need to know that there are certainly more and more of them. This has been on the international press for a long time and everyone knows it. It would be good if, in this Chamber too, it were to be known a little more deeply, because this intelligence law is needed and the articles that we have today's instruments. After all, we have IT skills, equipment technology, top-notch people in the country. Let us be grateful for that, for example, to Nokia’s telephone industry and related software technology and for what. We have universities, we have technical colleges and all kinds of educational institutions. We have people who have played with a computer since we were kids, do we say nerds who are sure to know how to do this computer? That is why we must make legislation so that this inquiry into the networks is also taken over by the Finnish authorities, so that we know and can be safe from the fact that terrorists, for example, who are harboring a terrorist attack in Finland, are likely to be caught before anything bad happens. In that situation, then, will people have any rights if something bad happens and someone is bombed and people die? Yes, it is the most outrageous thing you can do, and you have to be able to take them in advance. Every situation that can be prevented by the new legislation shows that this law is certainly needed and very urgently. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will put an end to the unnecessary sharing of the question of whether there is a duty of professional secrecy, where the precise limit goes. What is important is to know, as Mr Tolvanen rightly said, the documents kept secret with a red stamp. They are very secretive, and they are already in the Criminal Code today. Whoever leaks such information and if they get caught, it's through the district court. I know, Mr Lindtman: you have 28,000 duubios, which one might even doubt, that and that. But the big thing is that we understand what this is all about. When such a thick bill comes into this house, of course, there is still something there to cool. It is not so perfect for a person to write a paper that is completely impeccable, but it is now before the committees in this house. We'll handle it there and we'll make it the best in the world. When we remember this, we have quite a lot more understanding of it than we did about five minutes ago. As far as this amendment of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, this only applies to the procedural work of this kind, that there will be a new Committee on Intelligence, which will then receive this legislation, which is now being dealt with in this House — the law on intelligence control, where it reads — adequate instruments and powers to act to enable it to carry out its duties. When the intelligence officer cooperates well with this committee and, as we have just heard, the intelligence officer has huge powers of power, for example, to go to the courts where the district court authorises the proper conduct of that inquiry against a possible threat, it is also controlled. There is no situation in which someone gets to rumble like a pig in a bubbly and then sees how this happened. I would like this to be taken very seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u173	Mr President! It is quite clear that intelligence legislation is needed. Authorities need new means of monitoring world events. But, quite similarly, it is quite clear that even an overseer needs an overseer. This is precisely what is at issue now, when it states in its legislation how to organise both judicial control and parliamentary control, and as far as parliamentary control is concerned, reference is made to what Parliament states in its own Rules of Procedure as to the role of its committee. That is why this is a central issue which we are discussing here today when we talk about these amendments to the Rules of Procedure regarding how, for example, this overall supervision of the protection police will be organised. It is perhaps very strange that, when it usually happens in politics, when certain things are put forward that this should be done, then, in some cases, they will also be carried out. As far as the supervision of this protection police is concerned, you would think that now would be the point where this request, which has been made in a number of different extracts over the last 20 years, would now be fulfilled. This has been put forward by the various committees and individual Members of Parliament in the last 20 years on a number of points from different parties in the various committees' reports, with complete unanimity in their opinions. And now, ladies and gentlemen, where this can be done. That is why this debate is so strange when it is said, as far as the parties in the government are concerned, that this cannot be dealt with in this context. What's the connection? I am quite sure that, now that the committees are going to go through this matter, someone will come from there and say that no, is it not already stated in the Council of Presidents that this is how it is going to be, according to the book? That is why this should be put in place at this stage, and it is hoped that the committees will actually do this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u174	Madam President! The security reports of the members of the committee shall be obtained by the President of the Parliament. The relevant MPs should be asked for written consent to obtain a report. I think this is an unnecessary request. Each representative should understand which committee he is seeking and be subject to a very wide-ranging security clearance. However, the committee is dealing with very sensitive issues and should not tell anyone else in the queue at the hot dog shop. It must also be understood that no representative is obliged to apply to this committee if he himself believes that the background is not in order. I also find it extraordinary that the election of members of this committee is subject to political consideration and that the protection police are not given the power of decision in practice. Is it not the same, then, even if these choices are made without the expert help of the protection police, or is it the intention that the protection police should simply be consulted? The safety report is now about the protection police reporting to the seeking organisation the results of the legal data sources, mainly the register checks. In accordance with the above, the personal security report shall also not include the Authority’s assessment of the integrity, reliability or suitability for office or post of the person subject to the investigation. I should actually laugh at this, but I am not laughing because it is a serious matter. The report received is therefore not binding on Parliament. It is not, therefore, a question of creating the right for the subject of control to choose the members of the committee or to take part in their selection. I find the proposal quite extraordinary in this regard. As far as intelligence law is concerned, we are far behind the other civilised countries, and now it is time to make the necessary changes and with a timely timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u175	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen has just admitted that there are, of course, errors in this big bush and that they need to be corrected and dealt with, and when there is a lot of writing, there are errors. That is why I think it is very good that these mistakes are carefully looked through and corrected and without haste.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u178	Mr President! Today we are dealing with this House's Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure take a position on how Parliament is dealing with these matters and, in particular, on what changes to the Rules of Procedure are needed in the event of the emergence of this new intelligence legislation. Then we will inevitably talk about this matter of control, how Parliament organises this parliamentary control, and the way in which it is proposed is now this Committee on Intelligence or the Committee on Intelligence. One observation is that perhaps it would be worth considering this name for a while there in committee. I noticed that the supo had suggested that the committee's name should be the Committee on Intelligence, and I tend to think that it is a yes, this supo's position, the right one, that is to say, it is the whole question of intelligence, not just this supervisory task, but rather of what is being done in the inquiry. On the basis of Mr Supo’s comment — their observation was that this is better in line with international practice, and so it is possible to agree with this observation. Well, then on this need for supervision. Yes, we have a good staff here, and it is trying to do its job well, but it is equally clear that there is an exceptionally large amount of sensitive information here in one place and there must be confidence that this information will be used correctly and that it will not be politicised in any way. And then, on the other hand, these consequences, for example, of this inquiry abroad, are, in any case, portable for the whole of Finland. It is not carried by a single head of the syllabus, but by what is done in the world in the light of these tasks, it is the responsibility of Finland as a whole. And then, on the other hand, as has been said here, it must be acknowledged that man is not perfect, he is mistaken. In this matter of the Helsinki Narcotics Police, we have had so many concrete examples of things and surprises that you would think are not possible. For example: When, in this case, in the context of this investigation by the DEA, this atari register, which is, therefore, such a register of common-law criminals, was made public, it became clear that there were cases where there had been registered in this register because of incorrect parking of his car on a street where there happened to be a motorcycle gang club. It was...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u181	Madam President! There are two things that were left to be said. The second is that, when this law is being prepared, it should be understood, however, that in Finland, when these laws do not yet exist, the further this issue goes, the greater the risk that something bad will happen. We have seen situations in neighbouring countries where lives have been lost. As in many other cases we have heard from abroad, the inquiry has investigated a number of cases that never happened. This is the big deal that this will also prevent those incidents. Of course, the ideal situation would be for us to deal with all such threats in advance without loss of life or other damage. This is the case, however, and at the moment, we in the police force certainly already have enough information about the threats that are already in place, and their follow-up will become many times more effective in the fight against terrorism, for example. We have also seen these unfortunate cases in Finland where lives have been lost. Ten years ago, if someone said in this same Chamber that this was going to happen, he might have been laughed in the yard, that is not possible in Finland, but now it is possible, we know that. Second thing: At the end of the previous speech, someone shouted about the Natura case. Let me just say that if a person is deprived of property without being given full access to the handling documents on his own matters — the citizen always has the right to see all the documents relating to him or her — without even being able to say that he knows what is at stake, then it is worth disagreeing. In general, this House does not take a stand on the matters of the General Court, but I would like to take the view that, if the Supreme Administrative Court states that the directive is interpreted by the Supreme Administrative Court and not by the Court of Justice of the European Communities, I would have the courage to disagree.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u182	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Members for allowing us together to monitor the completion of this set of intelligence laws and to be Vice-President of that working group. We are now in a situation where, as part of this whole, a new form of Rules of Procedure is being laid down for Parliament, and there has been quite a great deal of debate on this matter in relation to its details. In the context of this preparatory work, the SDP presented a number of points which need to be re-examined. Firstly, the proposal now assumes that the Rules of Procedure will take a position on these new tasks. The Council of Presidents' proposal is based on the fact that intelligence control, the duties of the committee and the right of access are in line with the government's proposal to Parliament. Of course, the starting point is good. Under the normal legislative procedure, we can count on the government's proposals to be launched. In this case, it is a matter of a whole which also needs the support of the opposition to get this whole through. Unfortunately, when the opposition did not bother to negotiate with the government parties to complete this whole, we are in a situation where, for the first time, the government itself took a stand on what this intelligence legislation contains. And when the whole package of intelligence laws came to Parliament, the next item on the proposal of the Council of Presidents is on the agenda, which was not unanimous. It was therefore a process in which all groups had the opportunity to comment on the nature of the tasks of the Committee on Intelligence in these Rules of Procedure. We have put forward a broad set of tasks for it, with the task of the Committee on Intelligence to act as the parliamentary guardian of the civil and military intelligence that has been presented, but also as the overall guardian of the subsidy. This proposal as a basis means that the supo, which is now changing from a police organisation to a intelligence organisation in particular, will be very much the subject of this committee's mission, but it is likely that it will be reduced in the future model, but not in the future. And how much is left between this, between action and control, the grey zone, which should be assessed, no one knows at the moment. For years, but also during this parliamentary follow-up work, we have argued that the overall control of the subsidy would be carried out by this Committee of Inquiry in accordance with Article 31b of the Rules of Procedure. And unfortunately, we have still not responded to this project, even though the third year is being discussed. Mr President! As a second proposal, we proposed that further consideration should be given to whether extensions should now be included in this Rules of Procedure, precisely as a reason for not deciding on the overall control of the contribution in the context of the Intelligence Act, because it was not part of the original mandate, which was otherwise carried out by the government. And now, in this case, it is said that additional mandates can be taken into this mandate to decide on the Rules of Procedure because of the set of enquiries. And this proposal has in practice taken as an additional mandate the extension of confidentiality. This is done in Article 43a and this article on the public access to committee documents is now proposed to be substantially extended. Thus, in practice, it says that ‘the documents of the committee are to be kept in thesalat,if they cause significant damage to Finland’s international relations, the capital and financial markets,and national security It is good to stop in this connection for a while. This provision already mentions, in the past, as a basis of confidentiality, significant damage to international relations or to the capital and financial markets, business or professional secrecy and the fact that a person is in a state of health or financial standing, and it is now also possible for the committee to decide on such secrecy for any other necessary reason. However, this proposal has been prepared in such a way that it has been considered that this new amendment, which is to be introduced to this effect, would ‘risk national security’,is not a significant change for the committees. I think it is a rather significant change because it would apply to all committees and the public access to documents under Article 50 of that Constitution would now be extended to national security in the parliamentary Rules of Procedure, without any definition of national security at all. This has also been granted in connection with this case, since the fact is that it has been decided, on the basis of the obligation of professional secrecy in relation to the activities of the Committee on Intelligence, to extend this confidentiality to all other committees, also from this point of view of national security. Now I'm asking you how fair you think this is: The Intelligence Act assumes that intelligence in Finland can only be conducted and, therefore, fundamental rights are limited to people when it seriously endangers national security and the list of threats should be implemented at least two, but in this case it is considered that all matters in the parliamentary work are, in principle, secret if they endanger national security. No one defines on this basis, not in performances or by referring to any other definition of national security, of which national security is at stake. I've never seen a more scandalous section. Just imagine that no one will tell you what is the national security on the basis of which secrecy can be jeopardised here. It is entirely relative, depending on what it means to whom. In order to prevent this extension and this extension of the work programme from becoming quite blunt, it was also decided in this process that the obligation of professional secrecy should also be tightened up in respect of this entity, and thus, in practice, a direct reference to Articles 1 and 2 of Chapter 38 of the Criminal Code was added at the end of the article, which provide for the breach of the obligation of professional secrecy to be punishable as a breach or breach of professional secrecy. It is good to stop here too. Parliament therefore proposes that, in practice, according to this proposal of the Council of Presidents, any matter which would be dealt with in committee both in secret and also under the obligation of professional secrecy would in principle continue to be the subject of a decision of non-disclosure under Article 50(3) of the Constitution and would thus result in a penalty in practice under Articles 1 and 2 of Chapter 38 of the Criminal Code. And now it is that Parliament was not able to stop — I was then a member of the Council of Presidents for the second or third day — to wonder whether this was a fact or something else. We were not even able to stop and think about this current practice. After all, we clearly have different issues of confidentiality and secrecy, and this article has been specifically introduced into the Constitution by referring to the fact that these are similar matters and thus directly covered by this criminal offence, and, in fact, when we look at the level of the section, it refers only to matters of secrecy. In this respect, I am disappointed that the parliamentary government parties were not able to go into whether, for example, this representative, Mr Kiuru, is now telling the truth or what it is. The fact that work is being done here with such little significance — I am frankly wondering. In the Council of Presidents, the Social Democrats asked that this issue should be clarified in due course. There are different views here from legal scholars and constitutional experts, and in this case there was no need to clarify because this information was said to be so certain. And in doing so, there is a fear that all things will be all right here, considering how serious the matter is. This extension of the mandate, which was actually made here to increase such a significant level of secrecy, was not really prepared in such a way that the parliamentary groups would have been aware, the experts would have been consulted and there would actually be a knowledge of what is being done. And that is what we asked for, we made a proposal for it, but unfortunately the majority in the Council of Presidents supported the other arrangement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u183	Mr President! First of all, Mr Hoskonen, who said that no bill could be perfect, is being corrected in Parliament, I would like to say that we made a proposal to the government parties last autumn — when it became clear that the government would not be able to complete the intelligence package in time — that an interim period would be used for negotiations, not only within the framework of this parliamentary monitoring group, but also within the framework of the genuine negotiation of what is now here in front of Parliament, but it was not taken up. We have been prepared to take this forward constructively and we are still doing so. But then I would like to draw attention to one fundamental contradiction about this monitoring of the contribution and its claim. Mr Tölli has said that this already includes the monitoring of the aid in view of the tasks set out in the Rules of Procedure for the Committee on Budgetary Control. But then, on the other hand, Mr Satonen and Mr Tolvanen said that it was so big a matter that the Council of Presidents could not present it. Which of these views is the right one now? Is it, therefore, the control of the entire contribution within it, or was it such a big deal that the Council of Presidents could not present it in this Rules of Procedure? I tend to believe that the latter, because if you look at these tasks, all the tasks of section 31b listed here relate specifically to the word “inquiry ” — all tasks. 1Amends that the Committee of Inquiry’s role is to act as a Mr President! I'm going to the toilet. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Now, the question is: do these tasks, all of which refer to intelligence activities, Mr President, cover the whole of the subsidy? The answer can be found in the Government’s proposal for the Civil Intelligence Act and in its third legislative proposal on the amendment of the Law on Law Enforcement in Article 10, which defines the tasks of the Protection Police. The tasks of the protection police are:‘The task of the protective police is to obtain information —‘In order to protect security, and ‘—and now it is important to Observes,prevents and exposes—these threewords replaces the more magical,now existing term‘control offences’. Why? Because the fight against crime can also be regarded as a pre-trial investigation, which is now going off the hook, is it not? But in the rest of the world, there remains a ‘weak, blocking and revealing’. All activities other than those related to pre-trial investigations in relation to these tasks remain limited, and these are non-intelligence activities, let alone telecommunications intelligence activities. Furthermore,in accordance with Article 10 of the Law on Police Administration, ‘it is also necessary to maintain and develop the general capacity to detect and prevent activities that threaten social security’,and this Ministry has also provided a more precise guidance for application,more precise provisions on all housing tasks and has been required In this case, Mr President, I am inclined to think that way and I will come to the conclusion — when it was asked why it cannot be stated in this Rules of Procedure that the adequacy and appropriateness of the whole operation of its contribution can be monitored, and when the explanation was, albeit very lame in logic, that it could not be recorded because it was not in the mandate — that this law was prepared so that parliamentary control would only cover part of the contribution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u184	The debate will be suspended and extended in this full text once the other points of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u185	We will now continue with the debate on item 4 of the Day Plan, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u186	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u187	Madam President! This motion for a maternity law has been marketed and taken forward, claiming that the child would have two legal parents from birth, that it would not theoretically take anyone away from the father, that long and heavy adoption processes would be removed and that the child would be safe in case the mother died in childbirth. It has also been argued that the maternity bill would not have any effect on fatherhood or violate the fundamental and human rights of children. Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! All these arguments are incorrect, misleading or very vague arguments. Few people have thought that with the performance a group of children will actually lose the opportunity to strengthen their own father, even if the mother who gave birth to the child and her partner wish to strengthen the father’s paternity, even if the child and the father of the child wish it and the child’s other mother would not be confirmed. Also, few people have thought that with the presentation, if the child cannot be confirmed by the father, the child overseer is obliged to find out what he assumed to be a mother, even though the mother who gave birth to the child does not demand this and the other woman does not want this. If, on the basis of the report, it is considered that the other woman is the second mother of the child and yet does not recognise it, the child supervisor would be responsible for bringing an action and bringing an action to establish maternity. I don't think women with their female partners are in favor of this. Contrary to what has been repeated many times, this presentation will not allow the child to have two legal parents at birth. This presentation provides an opportunity for a mother’s partner, who, in agreement with the mother who gave birth, has consented to fertility treatment, even before childbirth, to acknowledge her motherhood. The confession shall be sent without delay to the child supervisor. However, the mother is entitled to withdraw her recognition within 30 days after the birth of the child, and therefore, in line with the paternity law, only 30 days after birth, the child supervisor sends the recognition to the Local Register Office for confirmation, and only after the confirmation of the Local Register Office is the other legal parent, not immediately after birth. It should be noted that the current method of internal adoption makes it easy to strengthen parenthood faster. Fertility treatment is usually conducted several times during studies and treatments, during pregnancy, maternity clinics and follow-up visits with their studies are normal everyday life, as are child health clinics after childbirth. In connection with this pattern of internal adoption during pregnancy, one call to the authority and after childbirth the fastest one visit is a simple way and can bring the confirmation of internal adoption very quickly. You wouldn't wish for a mother to die for a child. Fortunately, this is so rare in Finland that sperm donated in the case of a pregnant mother happens once every 400 years, so this cannot be a legislative argument. It has been assured that the performance would not theoretically take anyone's father. Contrary to what has been repeated many times, this performance takes away a group of children from the father’s, his own father’s confirmation, at the end of his life. This has been taken into account in the consultations, and in a good opinion a change to the proposal has been sought, among other things, by the Multi-Family Family Network. It is understandable that the Article 80 proposal, which often refers to, among other things, paternity and fertility care laws, is difficult to grasp from a practical point of view. However, with the performance, the loss of paternity will strike a number of children. This is the result of a change in the couple concept of the Fertility Treatment Act. The pair of the current Fertility Care Act refers to a pair of men and women in which the child has both a mother and a father. It is understandable that in the past it has been stipulated that, in the case of a couple, a sperm donor cannot be confirmed as a father and that sperm is used that the donor has not consented to confirm paternity. According to the motion, the concept of a couple changes, including a couple of two women who do not have, and according to the restriction in the Fertility Care Act, never have a father to confirm to the child. So the father cannot be confirmed even if the mother who gave birth to the child, his partner, even if the father and the child themselves wish it. This is true even if the other mother is never confirmed as a mother. Lawyers who are familiar with fundamental and human rights issues have drawn attention to this clear deterioration in the current situation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also called for an in-depth assessment in the hearings, including Emeritus Professor Saarenpää in civil matters. Last week, in this Chamber, in the absence of more than 80 Members, it was voted that no further assessment of constitutionality was needed. This was justified, among other things, by the fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs had consulted the constitutional lawyer, Mr Hidén. However, he himself stated in his opinion: ‘Expert on the application of the agreement on the rights of the child’. Lawyers with experience in fundamental and human rights, Vice-Judges Lahdenperä, Nikula and Anttinen, highlight the deterioration of the current situation and explain in writing: ‘This is a change in the current legal situation,as Article3(3) of the Procedural Law allows at this time the consent given following the adoption of a female pair of infertility treatments. From the point of view of fundamental and human rights, the possibility of a definitive withdrawal from the group of children subject to regulation has not been considered at all in the preparation of the Ministry of Justice or in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. That is the case, even though this is a clear weakening of the current legal situation. It is a question of equal treatment for a child, which is therefore set aside in the draft law. The fundamental principle of the paternity law that a child, when he or she is 15 years old, can determine his or her own family status is also ignored as a right of the child in the draft law.” At the end of their letter to the Bureau, these lawyers plead: ‘A procedural error in the procedure for preparing the law does not allowthe ordinary legislative order to contain a refusal The concepts of maternity and, contrary to what is often claimed, paternity also change with the presentation. Motherhood in relation to pregnancy and childbirth and adoption motherhood is accompanied by a completely different kind of motherhood based on the notification procedure, which can also be withdrawn. Article 3 of the motion states that maternity cannot be confirmed on the basis of consent to fertility treatment if paternity to the child has been established, confirmed or confirmed by the paternity law. Next Article 4 and further Article 13 However, it is shown that this legislation is not permanent either, but that the established paternity is a concept which can, however, be abandoned with the adoption and which will be repealed at the Local Register Office when the recognition of another mother is confirmed. In other words, fatherhood is not given up for the benefit of a biological, genetic father, husband or adoptive father, but a legal concept is made of fatherhood which, with the recognition of another woman, the father can give up altogether. Article 36 shall also By way of derogation from the provisions of Article 3 above, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has consistently held that the Court of First Instance has failed to fulfil its obligations under that provision. Although facts have come to light that suggest that the child did not initially receive a fertility treatment but that there is a physical, biological father, the motherhood confessor may nevertheless declare in writing that the child is his or hers. After this, he will not have the opportunity to correct, to correct the situation later, even if he himself would. Similarly, if the mother who gave birth has accepted the above written declaration in writing, she will not later be entitled to legal redress even if she wishes to, even if both women so wish. I doubt that women's couples will be in favour of this proposal restricting their rights to maternity and fatherhood and related rights of action. In addition, the maternity bill does not set the limit of adulthood as a second mother, but also a minor, a child who needs a mother herself, can confess and become a confirmed second mother. This seems really strange from a child welfare point of view, even for the professer. Mr President! I'm going to make a motion to reject the bill. This bill is a violation of the fundamental and human rights of children in particular. It undermines the possibility of strengthening paternity and deprives a number of children of the possibility of strengthening paternity and thus significantly impairs the current situation, placing children in a very unequal position. There has also been no assessment of the effects on children. In addition to maternity and adoption motherhood based on childbirth, the presentation introduces a confusing concept of motherhood, which can be obtained through the notification procedure, which can also be withdrawn. Maternity also tramples paternity and also changes the concept of paternity, which can be abandoned for another woman. This is not in the best interests of children, not of mothers or fathers. The performance makes it possible that the birther, the mother, does not have to be a legal woman. Madam President! The proposal also contains articles restricting the rights of mothers to action, articles which oblige the child supervisor to bring an action against another woman, although neither of the two women’s partners wants or demands — i.e. articles which are hardly supported by the two women’s parties. There are contradictions in the wording of the motion and it does not provide clear guidelines on the basis of which, in cases of conflict, the court would decide who would be confirmed as a second mother on the basis of recognition. On these grounds, in view of the shortcomings and weaknesses of the motion, the interests of children and the primary rights of children, and the strong importance of motherhood and paternity, I propose to reject the motion for a maternity law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u188	Madam President! Firstly, I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Tanus. This maternity law has the kind of character that I wonder more than anything else, and that is: one of the biggest problems in this nation is fatherlessness, and this is now being enshrined in the law to strengthen and promote fatherlessness. So we take the promotion of fatherlessness to the law in such a way that a child can never have a confirmed father. As the only country in the world, then, we are in the process of enacting a law that takes the child first the right to experience a father for 18 years, and then when he turns 18 and learns of his biological father, this father can never be confirmed as a father. So maternity law has become fatherless law. These postwar generations who seek their fathers and their children who bear the burden of fatherlessness are an important group in our society. Even now, we have different reality shows on TV where we're looking for these missing fathers. And then here in Parliament we are in the process of establishing a law that takes away the experience of the father and the confirmation of the father from the child once and for all. Shouldn't the direction be completely different? One of the arguments used here is that this law does not change the current situation in any way. Yes, in many ways. First of all, in the present state, the female couple can also confirm the father to the child if they wish, and they can keep the father present if they wish, in the life of the child acquired for the female couple through fertility treatments, but with this maternity law this possibility will be removed when the female couple wishes to confirm two mothers to the child before the birth of the child. Then it has also been suggested here that this does not take away a father from anyone who is completely incomprehensible on the basis of a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which clearly states that paternity can no longer be confirmed by this law to a child who has received this female couple through fertility treatments and for whom two mothers have been confirmed before birth. Mr President! One thing is also surprising here, and that is the order in which this issue has been brought forward. The citizens' initiative has become a new way of Finnish society, by which citizens can demonstrate in a straightforward manner different kinds of will expressions as to what kind of laws they would like to see coming. Now it has been twice as in the previous government when the government partners were unable to agree and reach agreement on whether or not to bring a gender-neutral marriage law. When the Christian Democrats as government partners opposed this, it was not included in the government programme. But then a citizens' initiative was promoted to create a gender-neutral marriage law, to which the ministers in the government joined and in this way were supporting the success of this citizens' initiative. This maternity law is another one in which the same thing is done. When the Sipilä Government does not want to bring this law, the citizens' initiative will be re-elected, and then the people in the government will go behind this law, and even so that the preparation of the Ministry of Justice will be taken back. My question now is: would it be time to review this role of the citizens' initiative, when it seems to even become such a bypass for government ministers and parties alongside their own government programme? I mean, this has happened twice now. I was thinking that perhaps the role of the citizens' initiative should be reviewed. In the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I have raised an objection to the rejection of the draft law. The main reason for the rejection is that the adoption of the draft law will result in the creation of more children, where the right to establish paternity has been definitively abolished at the level of the law. There are about 160 of these every year, 1,600 in ten years, and so on and so on. In 40 years, a significant number of children will be born who are condemned to fatherlessness by the power of the law, without ever having any chance of making a difference. The legislator should not legislate that increases fatherlessness. In addition to this, I believe that the initiative fails to take account of the best interests of the child and undermines the established concept of motherhood. Furthermore, given the importance and extent of the issue in society, I believe that the preparation of the matter has not been sufficiently thorough to ensure a comprehensive approach, including the comparison of different regulatory solutions and the assessment of the impact on children, and that the committee should also have requested the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Once the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has recorded how child impact assessments should be carried out, it has recorded a three-tier possibility. The so - called proactive impact assessment, which carefully examines the consequences of something for the child, has not been carried out. Then there is the so-called procedural procedure, which means that, during the course of the proceedings of the law, various children's organisations are asked to give their opinions on the law to be presented. This path was chosen in this reading. Now that we are reading through all these statements from the child organisations, one can make a clear observation: none of them dealt with the right of the child to a father, only the right of the two women to confirm the motherhood of two women to that child. The statement of the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, among other things, states — and I must say that it is quite wrong — that this law does not deprive a child of a father and makes me wonder whether they have even read the whole act when it is one of the brightest points in this whole bill. When you read these statements from child care organizations, it has mainly focused on the fact that two guardians are confirmed to the child before the birth of the child, but it has not at all been discussed what the consequences of this arrangement would have been for this child, which would have been far more important for them to consider. Mr President! Although motherhood is not regulated by law, there has been no doubt about its determination. We can talk about a universally understandable concept. With the citizens' initiative, motherhood and mother would become a legal definition which would be fulfilled on the basis of legal criteria. The initiative proposes that, in addition to the woman giving birth, a woman who, in agreement with the person who gave birth, has given her consent to fertility treatment can be confirmed as the mother of the mother who gave birth to the child, which makes it impossible to confirm the father to the child. The proposed maternity law would introduce maternity into the prevailing concept of maternity through a notification procedure. In the name of equality: If we look at the couples who, through the adoption procedure, are forced to seek the right to a child and their own child, they are subjected to long-term processes of considering their eligibility as a mother. In this law, all you can do is register as a mother. I think it is wrong for all these families and mothers who have to go through this qualification procedure. Although the committee's report states that only germ cells whose donor has not consented to the confirmation of paternity can be given fertility treatment to the female couple, the confirmation of the second mother means the exclusion of paternity in relation to the existing paternity law in cases where the sperm donor, after giving treatment, would, in agreement with the mother who gave birth, give consent to the confirmation of paternity. This law is special in that it now takes away the opportunity of the one - born crowd to do all that the law secures for them elsewhere, that is, to the kind of childhood in which the father and mother are present. These children will never be allowed to do that again with this law. Mr President! This law must definitely be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u189	I would remind Members that the joint agreement between the representatives is to stick to the ten-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u190	Madam President! I thought to begin by reading a message from a citizen: ‘I represent the voters of Finland. We are concerned about the maternity law to be voted on Wednesday this week in Parliament, which does not take into account the best interests of the child to have the right to the recognition of paternity established by law. Furthermore, the maternity bill is not equal in relation to fatherhood, as the law does not allow father to recognise paternity. In its opinion to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Ombudsman emphasises that the starting point for the regulation of parenthood should be the child’s right to parents, not the right of parents to children. The evaluation of the draft law should therefore primarily consider the best interests and rights of the child in relation to the fundamental rights of the child. As has already been said twice here, the issue of child equality is wider than the question of equality between different family forms. According to Article 6(3) of the Constitution, children should be treated equally as individuals and be allowed to influence matters concerning themselves accordingly. From the point of view of fundamental and human rights, the possibility of a definitive withdrawal from the group of children subject to regulation has not been considered at all in the preparation of the Ministry of Justice and also in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. This is therefore a clear weakening of the current legal situation. It is a question of equal treatment for a child, which is therefore set aside in the draft law. The fundamental principle of the paternity law that a child, when he or she is 15 years old, can determine his or her own family status is also ignored as a right of the child in the draft law.” Mr President! Where have the talks about how important it is for children to spend more time with fathers? What has happened to the talk of having more male teachers in the day club, kindergarten, preschool and primary school in order to allow children to experience and see male roles and figures early in life? Why have we forgotten the talk that it is important that both fathers and mothers take the same long parental leave? Does this talk have any meaning now that we are enacting this law?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u191	Madam President! We have listened to very good speeches on this issue today, and we would like to see more of these similar speeches, but the Chamber is quite empty. As Mr Östman has just said, those speakers who have spoken on very important issues in the past are now out of the Chamber. But the fundamental question is whether we want more fatherless children in the world. That's what we're doing. The citizens' initiative is introducing new provisions on maternity law. The main objective of the presentation is to confirm two mothers to a child born to a female couple as a result of assisted fertility treatment, and the child can no longer be confirmed by the father. I believe that the right of a child to a biological father is in the best interests of the child, even on the basis of international agreements. Those contracts cannot be overridden by a shrug. In the citizens' initiative, the child's best interests have been mentioned as the starting point of the maternity law. However, when the initiative comes about, it is precisely the child's interest that is being violated to the greatest extent by finally removing the possibility of strengthening paternity. The citizens' initiative aims to facilitate the position of female couples receiving fertility treatments so that the mother who does not give birth would also be the official mother of the child even before the birth of the child. I believe that the initiative in this respect undermines the established concept of motherhood and takes insufficient account of the best interests of the child. I believe that legislation must be based on the right of a child to a mother and father and not on the right of parents to a child, as we have just heard. The law would guarantee the child two legal parents from birth and thus the rights to inheritance and livelihood, among other things. Recognition of a child would be equivalent to recognition of paternity, and a female couple would no longer have to adopt within the family as they do today. Here the initiative has also been taken into account in some way in the best interests of the child. The law would apply only to female couples who have been given fertility treatments with sperm from unknown donors, i.e. those who have denied the possibility of strengthening paternity. Mr President! With this proposal, the Missing Persons programme will continue. At some point in our lives, we want to know where we come from, who are our biological parents. I do not think that this initiative will be possible and does not adequately safeguard the interests of the father and child. As the father of four children, I cannot vote in favour of this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u192	Madam President! I would like to raise a few more points. This draft maternity law before us is therefore based on a citizens' initiative and the citizens' initiative has been drawn up on the basis of a proposal made by the Ministry of Justice during the last parliamentary term. Everyone has the idea — or so it has been claimed — that it is a well-prepared proposal. However, when you go through the documents, it will be clear that in the last autumn of the last parliamentary term, this proposal has been trodden through in great haste. The working group that was set up to prepare this proposal also states for itself that the time allocated to their work was exceptionally short. Therefore, it cannot be considered that the Ministry of Justice and the preparatory working group have carefully dealt with the proposal and its consequences. Furthermore, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, Members of Parliament, and many other Members of Parliament, have called for this proposal to be supported by all large child organisations. However, I would now see that the proposal, which is more than 80, is very complicated. There must also be a comparison between the paternity law and the conception law, and I cannot believe, as good a job as large children’s organizations are doing, that all the articles of these different laws could have been combined. It is probably the case that a few articles have been drawn up and supported, and then based on the assumption that the proposal was carefully prepared by the Ministry of Justice and still supported by large children's organisations. And still many Members of Parliament have based their support on the fact that these child organisations support the proposal. I saw this chain, the continuum, when we look at it, it seems that in Finland, in 2018, the drafting of the law can really be such a weak foundation. I wanted to mention these fundamental and human rights lawyers, who have indeed sent a letter to Parliament and also to the Bureau, and also in writing, that the question of the possibility of strengthening the fatherhood of a child and its abolition cannot be regarded as merely a legal policy in the light of the current fundamental rights interpretation. From the point of view of the child, the question of fundamental rights is very much at stake and they have considered that the drafting of the law has not been good and that the legislative proposals are incompatible with the principle of equality in Article 6(3) of the Constitution. In addition, the legislative proposals are also problematic for the protection of the private life of Article 10 of the Constitution, as Professor Ahti Saarenpää, for example, has also stated in his opinion to the Legal Committee. These lawyers at Forum Externum therefore stated that this draft law cannot be adopted in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted and should not be brought before it or rejected at second reading because of a procedural error in its preparation. So I certainly hope that, when we vote on this tomorrow, we will vote in favour of the rejection of this legislative package. This Forum Externum, of which three vice-presidents have sent their written presentations to Parliament and also to the Bureau, is therefore an association designed to promote the implementation of fundamental and human rights in accordance with the principles of the dignity and democracy of the Constitution and the rule of law. This association carries out independent and independent civil oversight of fundamental and human rights. In this context, I would like to thank them for their activity and for raising these shortcomings so clearly in the proposal for a maternity law that is now under discussion. I would also like to forward you a letter from the citizen. He approached us and wrote: "In the case of children who do not have a father,the relevant impact assessment should give voice to those who They are indeed experts in this area. As a result of the last wars, there were over 50,000 fatherless children in our country. The grief and distress of the father’s loss were often accompanied by economic distress that society could only partially compensate for. However, no financial aid could compensate for the longing for losing a father. Father's trouble has been with these people all the way to the present. The regret had to be covered, for the most important thing, together with our war widows, was to cope with everyday life, plan and build life and the future under the conditions offered by Finland after the war. It didn't seem right to talk about orphanhood. Today, at retirement age, the traumas of fatherlessness have become more and more apparent.” We have a very close experience of what it is to grow up and live without a father, what it is to experience a father’s regret. As written in this letter, as a result of the last wars, there were over 50,000 fatherless children in our country and today, in retirement, the trauma of fatherlessness has become more and more apparent despite all the well-being. I would also like to raise one point of view. In fact, this has to do with what has been said at the last sitting and specifically with regard to anonymous donors, which have been repeatedly mentioned at other times. It has been repeatedly suggested at the last sitting, including Mr Modig, that no one should have a father, because anonymous sperm donors can be used, so that you do not even know the identity of the donor and therefore you would not have a father. However, the use of anonymous donors has been illegal in Finland since 2007, i.e. all donors in Finland and also in Finland must have donor sperm data.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u195	Madam President! Today we are talking about paternity and its meaning to the child. But where are the MPs, where are the male MPs, where are the fathers? I think this is a good question. There are currently 6 of us here in 200 Members of Parliament. Is paternity such a meaningless thing? I understand that there are a lot of people out there with electronic media who are wondering where this nation is going when this kind of legislation is being passed here. Madam President! In this regard, Mr Tanus referred to the child’s right to know his/her own parents, and I am now reading from here — when there are so many questions on this matter — Article 23 of the Fertility Treatment Act, which is not long but illustrates this point completely: ‘The person who may have been born of a donated gene or embryo, without preventing the right to maintain it18 after having been granted a copy of the grant of treatment from the service provider and the identification of a significant donor. By entering the donor identification number in the donor register, he or she has the right to know the identity of the donor.’ So this is the point on which we have said and stated that it will be possible for this person to have this information for himself after 18 years of age. There is one more point that I would have liked to address here, and that relates to this determination of motherhood. The explanatory memorandum to Article 2 of the Maternity Initiative states: ‘It would not be necessary for a mother to give birth to a woman of her gender. In situations where a person’s legal sex has been established as a man but has maintained anatomical reproductive capacity as a woman of his sex, it is possible that the person who gave birth to the child is a man of his or her legal sex. This provision also allows maternity to be established in these situations.’ According to Article 1(1) of the Act on the establishment of the transsexual sex in force, a person is established as belonging to the opposite sex to which he is entered in the Population Information System referred to in the Population Information Act if he or she presents a medical report that he or she permanently feels that he/she is of the opposite sex and that he/she is living in that sex role and that he/she has been sterilised or for any other reason has no reproductive capacity. The grounds of the Maternity Act are therefore incompatible with the legislation in force. Some changes have been made to the original initiative in the committee's report, but there is no correction in the report in this respect. I believe that the committee should have intervened in this matter. In accordance with the threefold doctrine of power alone, it is the legislator's duty to ensure that the legislation is sufficiently precise and not to deliberately leave unclear situations for the application of the law. It would also have required a separate impact assessment. This means that when a male couple’s second, transgender, person has changed their sex from a woman to a man but has retained their ability to become pregnant and give birth, they can give birth to a child in this relationship and be entered in the population register as a woman, that is, the sex she wanted out of and wanted to change her identity from. This creates confusion, this creates the feeling that there is no point in this business anymore. Mr President! It would be so right for this whole performance to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u196	Mr President! I am not very familiar with this proposal, but a few thoughts and quotations about this package. Some of the experts in the committee consider that the proposed maternity law redefines the concepts of maternity and parenthood and contradicts the best interests of the child. But the maternity bill contains the idea of a new type of human being, an artificial person whose family connections have been cut off. A new person does not have a real parent as a mother or a father, because a woman from the womb is considered to be the mother of an embryo conceived from a foreign egg and sperm, and the father is the one who has consented to the use of the germ cells of another man. In the performance, the concept of fatherhood is further broken by replacing it with motherhood. The arrangement will be implemented by removing the right of the child to the father from the child’s reach, definitively and irrevocably, as part of the mother’s fertility treatment. The child’s right to both parents, his father and his mother, has traditionally been regarded in the human community as the cornerstone of the child’s rights, which has been held in the interests of the children with claws, even when the man has only been involved in the fathering of the child and wanted to leave the life of the new person. So now they want to get out of this. How has such a pattern been found and seen as a genuine solution in the best interests of the child? This is based on a thought structure where a child is thought to be a pre-fathered creature, a woman’s creation alone. This is just not true because every child has a biological father. The new legislation is justified by the addition of a wide range of good things. In fact, man is inclined to make his greatest mistakes with a sense of goodwill, but what power does the legislator have to deny the father? This maternity package also invokes and claims that it concerns a relatively small group of women. Mr President! There's been a lot of these letters here. One person writes: ‘The law committee’s report on motherhood raises the question whether children are playing games in the selfless games of the adult. What does a parliament do when you're about to adopt a bill like this? If the pain of fatherlessness is then revealed to a child at the age of 18 that the father was somewhere, but he does not matter, whose mental health of a young person endures such a thing? Do you think a child is an idiot before he's 18? I think children are too valuable for such a social experiment.” And as has been said here, this law should definitely be rejected. It also comes to mind when the family leave model has been discussed here in Parliament and many people have stressed how important it is for fathers to care for children when the child is young. This is such a contradiction. And when this bill is passed, surely our Lord will not accept such things, but we will experience it in our own lives and in the lives of the Finnish people. This is absurd.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u197	Madam President! One thing I would like to raise here, and that is that these proposals relating to the situation of these women's couples, that two guardians and parents could have been confirmed to this child, could have been dealt with by amending the paternity law, by amending the custody law, in a number of different ways, as stated in the Bar Association's opinion, that this law would not have had to be regulated at all for these reasons. Now that we are going down the path of this maternity law, which in practice is a fatherless law, we are in a situation where we are, as it were, overstating things here for the loss of a child. I have been thinking a lot about how we can work here in this Parliament, how it is possible — when citizens expect us to evaluate and listen to experts and be able to justify, as if, rationally speaking, the decisions that we make, where I understand that we all represent — that something is being done in this area that has never been done in the rest of the world: the law provides for total fatherlessness.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u198	Madam President! In short, just for the sake of clarity, I would like to say that I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-27-ps-13.u199	Madam President! I also wanted to briefly point out that, just as Mr Laukkanen said and many experts have said, the necessary changes could have been made and could have been made in addition to the provisions already in force. Now we are on the table, and tomorrow we are going to vote on the maternity law, the maternity law, and, I think, the word and the meaning of the motherhood is very important to everyone at all times. Our maternity law would deal with 99% only female couples, one of whom was conceived by fertility treatments. So there are 52 or 54 articles in that section of the maternity law, and there is one section that says that the person who gave birth to the child is the mother, but all the other articles deal with the female couple and specifically with the fact that the pregnancy of another woman has started with fertility treatment, and in connection with that, the admission and withdrawal of the mother of another woman and the bringing of an action and all these matters. So when there is no reference to adoption motherhood, grandmotherhood or anything else in our maternity law, it seems very strange that Finland has a maternity law, the content of which is 99% related only to female couples, one of which begins with fertility treatments. Isn't this a really weird performance, too? I would hope that reason will prevail tomorrow and that this motion will be rejected in the vote and that the necessary changes will be made to the laws already in force. - Thank you.
