ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Finance and the Committee on the Future must give an opinion. After a presentation by Sampo Terho, Minister for European Affairs, Culture and Sport, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches and other pre-arranged speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, I can give you answers in the order in which I consider it. Up to 2 hours are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u2	Mr President! The report on sports policy is now presented to Parliament for the first time in the history of Finland. We can rightly say that it is about time. [Parliament :Olijoika! ] The report on sports policy has now been prepared carefully and extensively in consultation with the various parties. The University of Jyväskylä has produced a comprehensive research review as background material for the report. In addition, an online survey open to all has been carried out and a wide-ranging consultation has been carried out, both in the field of organisation and in the administration. The main message in the sports policy report is that Finland needs more exercise in all age groups. Increasing physical activity can bring both huge health benefits and economic benefits. The cost of non-mobility to society is over EUR 3 billion per year. We need to develop operating models that ensure mobility for all, regardless of their functional capacity, social background or wealth. The obligation to promote equality and equality must be taken into account cross-cuttingly in all sports activities. The basic idea of the report is to take mobility and physical activity to where the different age groups naturally are, i.e. early childhood education, school, secondary and higher education institutions, working life, services for the elderly and so on. The report contains concrete proposals for action at all stages of the life cycle. The draft measures in the report start from childhood. The report suggests that sports counselling should be strengthened in maternity clinics and that the Mobility School Programme expands The rolling early childhood education programme in the 20th century. In addition, the central proposal of the report is that school exercise should be gradually increased in primary schools in the 20th century. The utilisation rate of leisure time in schools and educational institutions needs to be significantly increased. The measures of the Mobility School programme will be continued through municipal measures. The mobile school has been the government's top project aimed at bringing an hour of exercise to the day of each comprehensive school student. The mobile school programme has been an excellent success and has reached around 90% of the population of municipalities, primary schools and comprehensive schoolchildren. The Government's draft budget for 2019 proposes to extend the Mobility School programme to a secondary level "Mobile learning" programme. An amount of EUR 2.8 million has been committed in the budget. In addition, the Mobility Study Programme should also be extended to higher education institutions in the 20th century. The report suggests that a pilot project will be launched to improve the condition of future conscripts even before the start of the service period. It is also essential to ensure that the physical condition of the conscripts does not collapse after the service. Business mobility must be promoted and community sport increased in cooperation with staff. The report also presents exercise for the elderly. We need a programme of action for older people living at home without regular services, as well as pilot projects for the elderly in the service institutions and for those in the home service. Mr President! The report also presents proposals for measures to promote all areas of sport policy, such as sports facilities, civic assistance and top-notch sport. Each municipality must prepare an analysis of the current state of physical activity, which also takes into account the development of a network of walking and cycling routes and the possibilities of nature sports. The report suggests that the state's sports policy should increase the share of support for physical activity building in the 2020s. In addition, in the early 20s, a one-off additional investment of around EUR 20 million would be needed in the renovation of sports facilities. The debt of correction must be closed. The preparatory hobby pass will be available next year and will improve leisure opportunities for upper secondary school-age children. The strategy also prepares proposals for measures to support the hobbies of children of deprived families. The targeting of follow-up support, in particular to promote the physical activity of children of the most deprived families, will be monitored and, where appropriate, the level of follow-up support should be raised in the 20th century by using an increase in support of the physical activity of families of the most deprived.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u7	Mr President! The Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party thanks Minister Terho for his historic moment. The first report on sports policy is now before Parliament. Sport has been for many people, and also for me, the one through which you understood that when you work persistently for a goal, everything is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u13	Mr President! Finland is now finally receiving a comprehensive report on sport policy, which we have not done in the past. We are now making a history of sports policy, and thank you for that. The report itself deals with various areas of physical activity, ranging from the promotion of a physical activity way of life to sports site construction and top-notch sports. The aim is neither more nor less than to increase physical activity and physical activity in all age groups and groups of people. The need for a more systematic sports and sports policy has been clearly identified. The Finnish people are more immobile than before. Only one-fifth of all Finns move sufficiently in relation to the recommendation. This is a development that we, as decision-makers, should be concerned about. Increasing physical activity is a shared task and privilege for all of us. The most important thing is to create space and opportunities for exercise. They need to be reformed in day-care centres, schools and workplaces. The most important thing, however, would be to give children the opportunity to move, as exercise habits begin to develop from the age of three. We must ensure that practices, such as mobile school, are already tried out and consolidated. In addition, we need to improve the conditions for folding trips by bicycle. The price of hobby, Mr President, must be tried to push down, for example, by means of a hobby passport already in the experimental phase or by the fact that the decision-makers are calling for a clearer allocation of state aid to the grass-roots level. The price must not become an obstacle to exercise and sports. The Coalition Party's Parliamentary Group also considers it important that there will be sufficient state funding for the construction of sports facilities in the future. At the same time, the importance of the various players in the sector, including the private and third sectors, needs to be better identified. We want public money and extensive cooperation to achieve as much exercise as possible. Mr President! The development of Finnish top-level sport has been hindered for years by an unclear management system. Now it's going to change. In the future, Finland’s Olympic Committee will be the leader of top-level Finnish sports. Its top sports unit is also involved in the preparation of state aid for top sport within the framework of legislation. Good leadership improves the chances of success for Finnish top athletes. Instead of dealing with responsibilities, we can focus on the essentials of the sport itself and its success. Mr President! Exercise increases well - being and prevents many people’s ills. For the same reason, non-mobility costs Finland dearly. The costs of non-mobility for various diseases and the loss of our ability to function are calculated in billions. It is clear that we cannot afford this. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group in the Coalition Party proposes that VAT on physical activity and sport be subject to a comprehensive survey and a presentation of how taxation could facilitate and increase the amount of physical activity in society. In addition, the sports policy report does not take much account of private actors. The report does not yet identify enough changes in the ecosystem or the service structures of the various actors. However, the welfare sector is an important source of employment. I hope that this sector will be better taken into account when considering further steps in the report. Care must also be taken to maintain the financial base of the proceeds from gambling activities. Gambling moves at an accelerated pace abroad while gambling problems remain in Finland. Our group therefore considers it important that the regulation of gambling should not extend only to our own national gambling company. Mr President! The Sports Policy Report provides guidelines and a framework for the direction in which Finnish sports policy and the promotion of physical activity are taken. It is now extremely important that the comments, measures and reforms made in the report are not forgotten. They must be put into practice. We need to get Finland back on track.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u14	Mr President! The Sports Policy Report is a good opening for discussion on the development of Finnish sports policy, but it lacks a holistic vision and will to promote well-being and health. The report could have been more diverse in society. It does not respond clearly to the kind of social development and future vision sport and physical activity are linked across traditional borders, i.e. how cooperation between physical activity, well-being and the health sector is actually developed, what is or should be the role of the state in the development of sports and sports culture or, perhaps even more widely, what is the vision of the operating environment of sport and sports and the building of sports places in Finland for the future. Unfortunately, the report lacks the practicality to implement the objectives and ideas it has put together. Evidence of the billion-dollar cost of immobility to health has been known for a long time, but if there are no proposals on how to work together in the field of health and sport, then the report's work will be of little importance. Exercise is considered a general remedy, but it is not. It does not cure or prevent all diseases — especially with the “move”. A comprehensive lifestyle renovation requires more than that: adequate recovery, proper food, which is perhaps the most important thing. You also have to remember that not everyone can or wants to move. So we talk about cooperation, but it doesn't always work. In fact, sportspeople and health people must join forces to achieve the desired results. In Päijät-Häme, for example, the goal is first in Finland to bring other professionals into traditional open health care, i.e. correct prescriptions, to the front line of social services, not only for physical activity counselling, but also for other professionals on the one-stop shop principle. It is a real investment in the future and the best targeted reform of the soil without having to rewrite the whole system or weigh its constitutionality. Mr President! Exercise must be part of industrial policy, tourism, the development of creative industries. We need to be able to make the exercise a business and secure the livelihood of sports professionals. Now too many sports professionals work almost at the poverty limits. The fact that two different VAT rates are applied to services also makes it difficult to engage in physical activity, leading to problematic situations. This was also mentioned in the group speech of the Assembly. I would have liked to have seen in the report a broader view of what the exercise field really is. When we talk about society, we often talk about the state, and so does this report. Sport and physical activity seem to be determined in relation to the state. However, the state’s sports budget is about EUR 150 million, while in municipalities the whole cake is about EUR 800 million. The whole culture of sport and sport is about EUR 6 billion, measured as a business. That is more than agriculture. So the importance of sports and sports is much more than just the state’s sports budget. It is a major source of employment and generates a lot of tax revenue. In addition to public health, physical activity and sport are also the national economy. In gymnastics, people move more in sports businesses than in sports clubs, and in general people move more outside clubs than in clubs — this too is a good thing to remember. Even in public health, the importance of the Olympic Committee may be greater than it should be. Mr President! The report on sports policy is the same as all the development plans of this government and their implementation. Things will be developed without adequate funding. Even now, the municipalities are actually being cut, which also affects the funding of physical activity. A concrete example of the overall thinking of the SDP is the Finnish Icelandic model presented in our alternative budget. We want to bring hobbies into the school day, make it possible for every child and young person to have a hobby and for families to have more time together. We have earmarked EUR 50 million for this in our alternative budget. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u15	Mr President! The Blues are very pleased that the report on sports policy is now being discussed in the context of the historic debate, and thank you to Mr Terho, the Minister for Sport, and to everyone else who has been involved in this. This is a matter that is common and very important. Mr President! The Sports Policy Report contains proposals to make Finland move and bring benefits from mobility. Not everything is always easy, but they must be done. Exercise is the first thing to increase mobility and, as is known, it is easier to get used to kindergarten and school-age children. The attitude that I can move around and make mobility a way of life — the younger it is handled and done, the easier it will always be. So it is very important to do this for kindergarten and school-age children. This is now becoming a hobby pass for comprehensive school-age children, and this is being prepared specifically for secondary school-age children, who are well placed to influence this exercise. This hobby pass is therefore an application that is on a mobile phone, and through it municipalities can offer tickets for various services in the field of physical and cultural activities. And, surprisingly, the youth pass trials in Pori and the good experiences they have gained are behind this. Their great names are Tikasta, Ekst, The Lanes. [Laughter] Mr President! Of course, not only young people but also the elderly are in physical activity, and exercise produces good years of age for the later ages, both mentally and physically. This will bring benefits to society anyway, when people are in better shape. For this reason, attention should also be paid to these budgetary contributions, in order to give sufficient advance attention to mobility, so as not to have to deal with those defects afterwards. In other words, we absolutely want a permanent increase in the level of funding. The Archipelago is something that depends precisely on the attitude: do I use the stairs or do I take the elevator, do I go by bicycle to the store, or do I go by car, walk, kicksled or how. So everyday travel is in a very large part, and it should always be done here, too, when using these stairs. The importance of light transport routes is very important in this respect, the ability to cycle and walk there. Other things: Recreation and travel in nature. There are very good studies that a person’s mind rests when he is moved in the forest. Nature trails are another big thing we want to highlight. So it's in a big sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u16	Mr President! All Finns are affected by the state’s sports policy. Despite this, sports policy has only been discussed a few times during a couple of parliamentary term. It is also a huge issue in terms of prosperity, public health and economic indicators. The report reveals the great challenge of immobility. According to THL statistics, health expenditure in Finland was EUR 13 billion in 2000. In 2016, health care swallowed up as much as 20.5 billion. It is not hard to believe the estimates of the social costs of immobility published by the FAQ Institute this autumn: 3.2 to 7 billion per year. Think about this amount. True Finns are aware that it is possible to significantly reduce the costs of health care and other immobility by increasing the movement. Achieving the objectives of sport policy requires a substantial strengthening of intersectoral cooperation. In addition to the economic aspect, exercise plays an enormous role in education and doing things together, as well as in human vitality. The value of the civic activities of sports has been recognised in the report, but the Finns of Peru would like even more emphasis to be placed on the social side. The organisation field is the foundation of Finnish physical activity and the funding and continuity of sports clubs and other actors must be ensured. The investments in physical activity by Finnish municipalities of around EUR 750 million are five times higher than that of the state, which has a sports budget of EUR 150 million. Municipalities create a framework for physical activity by being responsible for the construction of sports facilities and the organisation of other sports services. We Finns are concerned about the ability of municipalities to meet the challenges of immobility, because the finances of many municipalities are in distress. Mr President! The report presents physical activity in the course of life starting with maternity and child health clinic services, ending with the exercise of the elderly. There is room for a day-care centre, school, student and workplace exercise, as well as garrison service. These are the 1,000-dollar targets where the right policy can influence people's mobility. True Finns take special care about the movement of children and young people. Even though we have the Mobility School Programme and the number of school exercise has been constantly increased, there is a need for more effort, especially in club activities. Smaller village schools must not be forgotten. The report shows that day care centres are not as advanced in promoting physical activity as schools, which is a serious concern. The price of hobby is too high for many families. In our shadow budget, we Finns proposed a hobby moon for children and young people, which aims to guarantee everyone at least one pleasure. The report highlights the promotion of physical life guidance and sports counselling. The Finns of Finland are in favour of sharpening municipal mobility counselling and hiring fitness instructors in municipalities. The opportunities of digitalisation must also be exploited. People who don't move need positive encouragement, real action. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sitting far too little here in Parliament too, so I challenge all the representatives to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u19	Mr President! The report creates the prerequisites for health promotion and joyful exercise. In Finland, the costs of immobility have been estimated at over EUR 3 billion per year. The mobile school programme has brought one hour of exercise to the day of a comprehensive school student and has reached 90 per cent of the municipalities. It must be extended to all schools, including secondary and higher education institutions. In vocational schools, the number of boys moving is alarmingly low. Exercise is necessary at all ages. The exercise of the elderly must be increased in service houses, home services and seniors' hobbies. The chair gym refreshes and supports the ability to function. It would be good to get a sports card for senior citizens in accordance with the Espoo model everywhere. The card holder can participate in the city gym activities free of charge. The equality of physical activity does not happen to everyone. The mobility of disabled people must be supported by facilitating access to aids, enabling personal assistance and ensuring accessibility of sports facilities. Every child must have the opportunity to engage in a hobby. The pursuit of children with low incomes must be supported by means of earmarked funds. The Greens would invest in school mornings and afternoons. We would reduce club fees, exempt low incomes and increase cooperation with schools and sports organisations. Through school exercise, it is important to get to know different species and to have a sufficiently good swimming skills for everyone. Free public transport trips to school classes will be introduced in the HSL area. This is a good model for other urban areas as well. The opportunity to engage must be available in Finland as a whole, even for children in rural areas. It is important to support small local actors, to promote new public transport and carpool solutions so that the opportunity to engage is not missed due to long distances. Municipalities must provide facilities free of charge, such as school gyms, for leisure activities for children. It is worth following the example of Iceland — not just for the sake of football success dreams. In 20 years, Iceland has significantly reduced young people’s drinking, smoking and drug use. This has been achieved by supporting families and offering a hobby to all young people. Sports facilities have been built in every village. Increasing support for sports facilities is a welcome proposal. It should also be noted that more and more people want to move around on their own. Examples include parkour, skateboarding and nature sports. The support for sports facilities must therefore be targeted in a diverse way. Good transport routes, urban bikes and public transport increase the mobility of everyday life. A little mobile may not use the gym, but perhaps visit a dog park or play yard games with children. The report proposes the introduction of a hobby passport in municipalities. That's good, but it's not clear how it's going to work. Is the purpose of municipalities in the context of current funding to guarantee a free hobby for a child, or is it the task of clubs? Is there financial support from the state for this? For children in social activities it is important that everyone participate, everyone is allowed to play. Supported clubs must provide activities on a low threshold for all. Children develop physically individually. In the case of growing children, team appointments favour those born early in the year. Finland is a country in which a child must have the opportunity to develop in a species he loves. I appeal for human exercise. A mobile way of life is of value and of national economic significance. It brings friends and improves the health of the mind, body, bone and heart. In the case of children and young people trained at the top of sports, attention should be paid to their protection against stress injuries, injuries or eating disorders. Walking and hiking is a significant exercise in everyday life. Local forests and parks must be secured in urban planning, national parks must be fostered. My question is this: why is funding not found for the restoration debt of Metsähallitus' nature services, and Metsähallitus is forced to dismantle longwoods? Exercise can be a hobby shared by the whole family, such as fitness planning for my family. We're going to have to spend three generations at night. Time spent moving together is best. The exercise of a child’s gymnastics has also brought many experiences and new friends. For reasons of incentive, sports services should only be taxed at one low VAT rate. The funding of physical activity must be increased from state budget funding. Girls move less than boys, and there are fewer women as coaches. Financing of sport and sports facilities [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u20	Mr President! Finns are a sports-crazy people. That is what is said, and that is what we have wanted to believe for decades. But is the claim true? As bench athletes, we're more of a success than a sports nut. The movement, on the other hand, is polarized. Of course, there are still those who move very much, but the number is increasing all the time, who are not moving at all or far too little in relation to the recommendations. Exercise is also a class issue. Socio-economic status affects exercise habits and opportunities to participate. The background to the sports policy report was an important review of the physical activity survey, and the researched data should be used more thoroughly than before. Increasing immobility is a matter of health, social and economic time bomb. Mr President! Mobility is a problem in all age groups. People of different ages and life situations need different support measures and opportunities. There must be better opportunities for the workplace to go on foot or by bike, and exercise must be made possible in connection with the working day. Pensioners need guided exercise and low-threshold activity. Gender equality is still not a reality in sport and sport. Immigrants, especially immigrant women, need positive opportunities to participate in sports and social activities. Access to physical activity for people with disabilities and disability must be supported. However, I will focus on children and young people — especially when today is still the day for children’s rights. Mr President! The integration and learning of a physical way of life originates from childhood. Therefore, each child needs to find an interesting and inspiring form of exercise. Every child and young person must have the right to engage. In families with low incomes in particular, finding meaningful exercise activities, experimenting with several species may not be possible. It is not just about the exercise itself; it is equally about social relations and cohesion. Every child must have the right to the friends and teammates brought with him by exercise. However, too many young people are excluded from leisure activities. In the last 10 to 15 years, the cost of hobbies has risen dramatically. Insurance, licenses, social security fees and competitive travel increase costs. The professionalism of coaching and the improved quality of the fields and halls are definitely positive, but at the same time they have contributed to the increase in leisure expenses. We cannot afford, either economically or socially, to displace children from exercise. That is why stronger and stronger measures are needed to reduce leisure costs. Mr President! The report proposes an increase in follow-up support. That is what the Left Alliance has proposed in its alternative budgets every year. In my capacity as Minister of Sport, the club support was more than doubled. The present government, on the other hand, has cut social support. Municipalities need to reduce the fees for field and hall fees. The model can be taken from Oulu or Turku, for example, where they are not collected from leisure activities for children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u25	Värderade Talman! Sund själ i en sund kropp. Det ordspråket har vi under hört förut. Vi vet att motion gör en picgare och ökar väbefinnandet. Internet är fullt av gympavideor och strechningsövningar, arbetarinstutten ordnar motion för senior och många har arbetsgivare som stöder motion economist. Det råder alltså ingen brist på öjligheter. Trots det rör vi inte på oss tillräckligt. Tack till statsrådet för denna redogörelse om idrottspolitiken. Det är bra att temat diskuteras och att man ställer ordentliga mål för motion. Vi stöder fullt ut målet att öka activiteten i alla åldersgrupper. Motion förebygger effectivt såväl fysiska som psychiska sjukdomar. Ju mer vi som stat satsar på förebyggande verksamhet, desto lyckligare och friskare blir folket i Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u26	Mr President! Mobility and sport have many faces. The diverse nature is also well reflected in this long-awaited and expected report. A step walk, a rough workout at the gym, or a chair workout in a home for the elderly may be only remotely similar, but for everyone’s purposes it is much the same — to promote our health and well-being. And for this very reason, physical activity is worth investing in, regardless of how it is done or how it is done. We need more movement into this nation. Whether we have a social welfare model or not, health care funding is going into crisis unless health exercise and physical education are taken seriously. Maintaining the ability of citizens to work and function is at the heart of the national economy, which is why increasing physical activity must be one of the most important themes of the next government programme. Because of diversity, the means of increasing mobility require creativity and the application of correct practices. We have high-quality research, we have good models — the crucial thing is how we put the strategies into practice. In this work, everyone plays a central role, whether individual, community or society. Mr President! Everyone must have the right to move regardless of age, disability or, for example, financial situation. Of course, the benefits vary according to age or life situation, which is why it is a journey partnership of a life cycle. Sports poverty is partly already true in Finland. Thus, it includes restrictions on family background and residences, especially for children and young people, to exercise as they wish. Urbanisation and intermunicipal polarisation may further increase physical activity poverty. Mobility must be introduced into everyday life right from childhood. For example, it is researched that it is possible to prevent the exclusion of young people through hobbies and physical activity. The exercise hobby of a child and young person must not be caught by the parents’ purse. Working life today is characterised by seating, static, and constant urgency. Work is diminishing to an extent physical. On the other hand, the work of physical workers often highlights the burden of one-sided movement. It is all the more important to be able to create mobility as part of a working day and to encourage the expansion of physical activity through small choices in everyday life. Also, exercise does not look at age. The activeness and inclusion of older people must be supported, and they must be given the opportunity to engage in a hobby. Studies show that the exercise started at an old age also has health benefits, increases quality of life, and participation in the group enables social interaction. Mr President! Top sport has an important place in the hearts of many Finns, and it creates a community that unites the nation. However, the results of top-level sport do not come free — not in a literal sense, but also without long-term, diverse and multi-layered work. The financial contribution, for example through the so-called Olympic Fund, should be targeted as effectively as possible to support the work of the athlete and coach, as well as to help in a wide range of travel to the top as well as to secure support in difficult situations. Mr President! In all kinds of sports and hobbies, sports club participants are often the key workers. The long-term and heartburn work of these actors is extremely valuable. Citizens' activities such as social activities are something that must be fostered and promoted in the future, including by ensuring tax neutrality in the general interest. Sports hobbies also include values and accepted practices. Therefore, training and ethical codes of trainers and other responsible persons have enormous responsibility and importance. Mr President! Nor can we compartmentalise responsibility, impact assessment or budgeting in the area of physical activity for just one body. This is a cross-cutting issue. So, all the ministries are allowed to roll their sleeves, pull their sweatpants and get involved in these pursuits.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u27	Now we are going to the debat, and at the start of the debat, I will give the minister the floor for two minutes. After that, we will take a 1 - minute tour between those who have just spoken in the group.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u28	Mr President! Thank you all for this first round — opinions and views, feedback and criticism. Almost everyone pointed out the premise that the costs of immobility are enormous for society, i.e. with unemployment in the same order of magnitude, and this is probably the common motivation across party boundaries, over the period of government to intervene in this phenomenon. A number of speakers also highlighted the problem of equality in physical activity, physical poverty — or what term anyone wanted to use. It is certainly very natural when we talk about just what the public sector can do about things, what it is our duty to do about things: to bring physical activity as close as possible, to bring it as close as possible to every Finn, and, for example, through the education system, for example, to raise citizens in a very young way of living, which hopefully will last through the life cycle. In fact, the only almost exclusively negative speech came from the Social Democrats, and I am against some of the comments you have raised: firstly, it was criticised that the approach is not comprehensive enough. But it is precisely here that we approach the whole life cycle of a person, so that yes there is a very comprehensive approach in this respect. And second, there was criticism that there was a lack of concrete. However, for each of these stages of life defined in this report, measures are also proposed — in total, dozens if we go through the whole report. Here, too, cross-administrativeism has been well taken into account, which was criticised in your group statement. And it was criticised that no background work has been done on mapping the entire sports field. In fact, in the working group chaired by Mr Harkimo, there was already extensive background work on this work, and this study by the University of Jyväskylä did a huge amount of background work on these facts, i.e. I dare to reject your criticisms as false.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u29	And now, with one minute's speaking time, let us get started and, as a guarantee, let me ask the Members who want to use the reply to the question, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u30	Mr President! I fully agree with Minister Terho that there have been so many studies and studies in Finland and there is a basis for this good report. We also have extremely good practical models in Finland. We talked about Iceland, they have great models, but we also have in Finland. Here. Of course, there has been a lot of talk here about mobile school, among other things, but for example: The use of the facilities in Jyväskylä is quite different from that of many other localities, which means that the courtyards of day-care centres and schoolyards are in good use there. In Jyväskylä, school afternoon clubs have been organised by several clubs. Among other things: In Mikkeli, a new idea, the Dreams, has been taken into action, and from the grassroots level, we will think together among all the players about how to try out more joy in the community for exercise and life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u31	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their good contributions and once again to thank the Minister for his report. Fortunately, we cannot argue about exercise in this Chamber either. When resources are relatively small, we must learn to invest in precisely those where the input-output ratio is the most effective in terms of physical activity and sport. The mobile school has been one of the projects that has been extremely good, and it would be desirable that this should now be extended to day-care centres and other levels of education. Moreover, the question of VAT is an interesting one. At present, VAT practices are very confusing. We may have three different people doing the same bicep movement at three different VAT rates. Mr Terho, you promised in your speech that you would make a VAT report, and I would now like to ask what timetable this report will take.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u32	Mr President! First of all, thank you for giving the Finnish Icelandic model broad support here. Thank you in particular to the representative of the centre, Mr Kosonen. You raised it very well, and actually with the same elements as the SDP in the alternative budget. That is a big thing, and I hope that we can get regional pilots on the move, for example, so that we can do things in practice and try things out, how we can help families in a holistic way, support hobbies, and at the same time create jobs in clubs, for example, so that municipalities can receive additional funding and support clubs. But, Minister, what I meant by the lack of this comprehensiveness is the great challenge, for example, in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and, in practice, regionally, how we get a regional approach, for example, where sports professionals, health professionals, food professionals and so on find a common model. I admit it's not easy, but it needs to be piloted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u33	Mr President! In a couple of speeches, the question arose as to whether people, all young people, could afford to move. It is true that some of the hobby fees are too high, and then I think that every municipality will have to find the solutions to catch up with the exercise. Different sports facilities in different village communities must be taken care of. They are important places not only for young people but also for the spirit of the village and so on. For example, the hockey field in my village is in a loud cry, and there is a mental pot, not to mention Isomäki. Yes, the attitude is what you have to learn when you're young, ever since you were a little kid. If you don't learn that then, the final steps where you can actually catch up are military service. A generation of men goes for it, and attention should be paid there to whether or not:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u34	Mr President! Cross-administrativeity has been raised in the report and also strongly in the Sports Council. It should happen between all ministries that every ministry should be involved in the voluntary activities of immobility, not just the Ministry of Education and Culture. It belongs to almost all ministries. My real question, however, is from the municipality. The role of municipalities after the regional reform is high: health promotion, disease prevention. How is the government prepared for the municipalities to cope with this and for the municipalities to be able to carry out this heavy task on a regional level?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u35	Mr President! It is important that we have this good report on the table, and all the groups have welcomed it with pleasure. It is important for us to promote physical activity. It also makes economic sense and prevents children from being marginalised. It is on the day of the rights of the child that I express the hope that this period will soon take forward the opportunity for each child to engage in a practical activity around the hobby pass. How do you plan on doing that? I would also like to raise the issue of self-motivated exercise and how our built environment should inspire everyone to move — schoolyards, kindergartens, but also outdoor exercise and natural exercise. The Greens' speech raised the question of the correction debt of Metsähallitus. Finns love national parks and camping and Samoaming in them. My question is: does the government have the will to put the structures of nature services in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u36	Mr President! Can young people afford to move? According to the survey, already about one third of families say that children’s physical activity is hindered by too high prices. One third — it tells us that we are displacing children from social activity. This hobby pass, which is in itself a good thing, will not help. That's the only way to try it. Care must be taken to ensure that there is a permanent opportunity for your own team, for your own company to act and not just to try out. Mr President! At the same time, it should be noted that it is not enough to move in clubs alone. A considerable amount of self-employment is also needed, both in day-care centres, schools and leisure time. School courtyards and nearby sports facilities are of paramount importance to this. Mini stadiums, challenging climbing walls, climbing racks, or even light folk gyms make children move during and after school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u37	Mr President! We think that a pass is an excellent thing because it really supports equal opportunities for all children, regardless of the family background, and we hope that this will be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u38	Mr President! Regional physical exercise poverty comes from the fact that many small municipalities struggle with their financial difficulties and may not have the opportunity to take care of their sports facilities. We have a large number of swimming pools built in the '70s, sports fields that are coming to the end of their lifetime. This report simply mentions the possibility of renovation grants and the possibility of clarifying possible new construction, but is there any concrete idea of how to move this forward? We also have a very large number of sports and sports facilities with serious indoor problems, and in that sense you might say that this is just as much the maintenance of this kind of economic infrastructure as, for example, when we talk here about the road network and the like. How do we ensure that a large number of these sports facilities around Finland, especially in small impoverished municipalities, remain in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u39	Next up, Mr Harkimo, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I've been in sports for almost 40 years on many different levels. A report on sports policy was made on the proposal of the working group in which I was involved, including Mr Skinner, and it will answer all the questions we asked. The report on sports policy is good and comprehensive. It responds to all the challenges of immobility. It is important that the next government negotiations agree on the implementation of the solutions set out in the report so that the working group and its work and the report on the basis thereof do not go to waste. The report has taken into account a number of important issues, the most important of which was the decision to set up a new body under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture for the coordination of sports policy. The body would be represented in all ministries and branches of activity relating to the promotion of physical activity and physical activity in one way or another. This will increase cross-sectoral cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u43	Mr President! This is the historic moment in which we will have this report on sports policy here. Thank you for that to all those who contributed. There are great expectations on the field. We must now make sure that this is not a paper that remains in the bookshelves to pollinate, but that it becomes available. We will get this into committee, we will do good work there and we will try to ensure that this happens for our part. In my opinion, the best thing about this paper is that this picture is taken big enough. In other words, when we talk about these billions of challenges, it is clear that we must operate at least in this size category of over 100 million, that we will be able to catch up to the costs of the billions of non-mobility. What I still need to look at is this cross-administrativeism, so that it does not just remain a matter for everyone to say that it is important that everywhere is done, and yes, this is a common cause for all. It is not enough, but we need a strong player who will take care of it and who will have the responsibility of putting this into all sectors of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u44	President! One in four associations is currently established in Finland in the sport sector. Sport is, of course, the most suitable breeding ground for children and young people through the club, and the payment here is a major problem. I hope that the example of all children, all young people, in my hometown of Turku, can be followed. But the club also extends to top sports, and it is important to see that the club is also the breeding ground for top sports, where it is important that professional training also becomes possible at international level in our system and that the Olympic Committee, the federations of species, have a sovereign opportunity and the prerequisite for action in this area. Just as clubs make it possible for children to have a high level of sports, they also allow disabled people to apply physical activity to people and to people with different levels of wealth in a way that enables physical activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u45	Mr President! The most important thing in connection with this report on sports policy, in the debate now and later, is that there should now be some significant signal from this house that will have an impact. It has been interesting in this debate that this Icelandic model has now emerged. It is actually like further processing of this completed school day, which has included bringing the school close to a hobby activity that could continue at 4 p.m., at 5 p.m., and leaving more time for children and others with the family. Its results were good at the time 15 years ago when it was being tried, but somehow it got a little out of hand. The idea of an excellent mobile school was born in itself, but it lacks this kind of congregating vision. The Icelandic model also includes this kind of sports ethical level, including children’s curfews
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u48	Mr President! We have to make this Icelandic model our own Finnish app, it is also available in the city centre's election programmes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u49	Mr President! As regards both the Icelandic model and this social justification for physical activity, i.e. that the costs of immobilisation of more than 3 billion must be jointly affected, we agree. But if we do not get more resources if we do not get more exercise, then we will certainly have to make choices. We have to make choices, what type of sports facility construction we prefer, whether we build motorways or build those nearby sports facilities mentioned by Mr Arhinmäki in connection with schools and so on. We also have to consider the choices of what kind of activities we support at the club and union level. Do we only support goal-oriented sport and its pursuit, or do we involve the least motivated, the most vulnerable and most vulnerable children and young people in so-called physical exercise, the hobby community? I believe that both the assistance of the monitoring level and the assistance of the federal level should be prioritised accordingly,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u50	Mr President! I myself have held the model of Iceland and tried it in Finland on the Sports Council for a long time. I am very pleased that many parties have raised it here today. I would be very pleased if we could leave it, for example, through the opportunities provided by this hobby passport, to try it out in a municipality, for example, as soon as possible. I would like to express my special thanks to the Ministry and the Minister for the fact that this report on sport policy was prepared as background material for such an extensive review of sports policy research, which in practice covers everything we know about sport research in Finland. I recommend everyone to take a look at it at least, as there is information on what factors affect people’s exercise habits. One can also draw the conclusion, for example, that the least mobile people are not necessarily helped by social activities and not necessarily by physical activity, but by mobility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u51	President! A dog’s jaw may scoff that representatives talk about exercise sitting down and sometimes eat at a standing table. But more seriously: Finland has a unique opportunity to monitor, although only for young men, the development of physical activity and health, namely the institution of invitations, and it does speak a rather harsh language, as well as the fact that much is interrupted from military service during the first few weeks due to poor health. That is why we need resources for preventive and low-threshold health exercise. The importance of social activities has been highlighted in many speeches. The association is also a central body, and whenever shocking news comes from time to time in the social activity
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u52	Mr President! The achievement of the objectives of sustainable development, which are important to us all, requires policy coherence. This report is an example of how difficult it is to remember this issue. Indeed, the report does not at all assess the importance of useful exercise, for example, in the fight against climate change. Wouldn't that have been something worth the attention in the exercise policy report? The importance of sport and the organisation of light transport have been justified by other arguments but not by sustainable development, although for example, light transport is an important means of achieving emission reduction targets in the transport sector. Fortunately, however, the report will come to the Committee on the Future and there we, together with Mrs Wallinheimo, will be able to reflect on the link between these two important issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u53	Mr President! This report on sports policy is also a very good document for discussion here in the Chamber, and quite a lot of good ideas emerged from the report. A physically passive way of life is becoming one of the most important public health problems worldwide. Self-movement alone and in groups during school and after school should be an increasingly desirable place for children and young people to live. It must be remembered that the foundations of top-level sports are created through the exercise learned as a child, both like me and like many other athletes. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister: has this report explored all the possibilities for increasing the mobility of children, so that our top sports can also have talented individuals?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u54	Mr President! Three points. Basic skills in physical activity need to be learned early. The mobile school project has been excellent, and unfortunately it is now over. In the case of primary schools, it should continue, but it still needs to be started before then, i.e. in day-care centres. The moving kindergarten project is said to start in this 20th century. Could it, Minister, start next year if the money is found? “What’s young,senior’s skill,” is also in the ancient Second thing. When there is talk of a hobby for children and young people, remember that when there is a child under the threat of exclusion, he hardly goes into social activity. Remember, too, that traditional school clubs are good — low threshold, familiar place, familiar teacher, safe to be. And absolute not for a full school day, which I'm sure the demos are driving here. Third point. When Our Society’s Structures
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u55	At the time of the last ten speeches, there have been so many questions or comments to Mr Skinner that I will therefore now give him an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u56	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it must be said to Mr Harkimo that this is the case: most of the ideas and ideas of our group moved forward, and that is a good thing. For example, raising the coefficient for promoting well-being and health from 1 to 3 should be an objective for all. That is the way it should be, but we do not yet have the answers to this. But I would also say that it is a big question that 10 per cent of Finns are responsible for 80 per cent of social costs. And now that we in this house have spent the last few years on this war, the solution that I am talking about is that cooperation between the physical people and health and nutrition and society as a whole in the front line, that we can get those people, those customers, and that is something that our working group did not really have time to open up, and that is not going to be properly opened up by this report either. This is the mega-class question, and that is the pilot I asked the Minister, and that pilot I want to carry out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u57	Mr President! I've been testifying myself. Successful implementation of the Mobility School project in primary school. On the other hand, the reception of the project at the second stage was tangled. Only a few educational institutions have signed up. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: do you have any idea why this is happening?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u58	Mr President! Thank you for the report and thank you also for this background to the Sports Council. This is indeed an excellent piece of paper, and when both of these are read, the overall picture will come from this. Thank you, too, to Mr Pylves, who, I think, was the first to dare to bring up the top sport. The report says that at the age of 3 people are starting to polarize exercise habits, and this background says that half of the six-year-olds master the most familiar basic motor skills — running at the age of six. Conversely, half the six-year-olds can't run. I find this so shocking that I do not really know whether we are talking about sports policy or about sport or what we are talking about. But if early and schoolchildren do not learn three things — endurance exercise, mobility and muscle fitness — then the prognosis is really bad when you take up working life, and when you go here to the elderly, the results are poor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u59	Mr President! On this important issue, the movement took place now that the working group chaired by Mr Harkimoni, who unfortunately has left, called for a report on sports policy and, historically, Minister Terho responded to it and we are now dealing with it. Here I would like to thank Mr Harkimo for his 40-year work in the field of physical activity, and many other Finns who have done the same work. Civil society in Finland has been central to this. Mr Arhinmäki was quite right that exercise in clubs alone is not enough, especially when we want to reach the young people who are not in the clubs. And as is rightly said in this report, municipalities play a crucial role, and municipalities do not take sufficient account, for example, of groups of friends who do not work through associations or associations. I believe that they will not be able to make equal provision, for example, for shifts in public spaces.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u60	Mr President! The tone of this debate is unambiguously that, in the objectives, we all want all people to have the right and the opportunity to move. Of course, supporting hobbies is at the heart of it, and I am very excited and proud that, for example, the SDP in its own alternative budget is ready to invest EUR 50 million in this wonderful Finnish model of Iceland. It would be a practical test in a few regions and then more extensive use would be made of effective practices. President! I am actually wondering: it is good that we have a good spirit here and we agree with the objectives, but could you, for example, at the end of the vote, be a little more specific, because here, for example, Mr Multala seemed to be very much in favour of this model of Iceland, which I think is important and good, and again, Mr Vahasalo seemed to have said absolutely strict ‘not’ to it? So I think it would be a good idea to specify what everyone is.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, quite a lot has been said about this sport policy in Iceland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u62	Mr President! Happy UN Children's Rights Day! I must say at the outset that we cannot afford to be immobile. From a public health point of view, it is a very large cost, and that is why we need low-threshold sports facilities and therefore we need a sports pass or junior passport for all young people, or a senior passport, which enables everyone to move regardless of their wealth. On the other hand, we need a system that recycles leisure goods, for example, because often leisure equipment becomes very expensive, especially in certain species, and there is certainly still a great deal more to be done here. In addition, I would have asked our minister that once we have achieved a great deal of success in athletics in the field of disabled sports, how can it be?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u63	Mr President! I'm not talking about Iceland, but when I was a young man who climbed Galdhøpiggen, it was warned in the guidebook that you should go on a weekday because it's full of Norwegians this weekend. Why Norwegians move, it is a really interesting question, and it is certainly also a national attitude there. I don't know how it's gonna show up in health statistics, but they're moving anyway. After all, social activities in Finland have traditionally been important. It has also been based on voluntary service very far, but now sport is becoming demanding enough for professionals to be needed, and resources are needed on this side. But it has rightly been said here that attention must be paid to children who are excluded from social activities, and, of course, the afternoon clubs in schools also have an important role to play. After all, there are quite a few places in Tampere where people play puck, but very few can afford to go out really seriously for hockey, it is an expensive hobby. That's why we're doing something else. This is very important, precisely in reference to what has been said here on the basis of this report, that we can get the children to move around who are not there in the top clubs and there in the active activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u64	Mr President! Exercise is an important source of not only physical but also mental well-being, and it is stopping to think that only one in three young people, that is, only one in three young people, are sufficiently active in their health. It's a really stopping number. We should make every effort to lower the threshold so that as many young people as possible can enjoy the joy and joy of exercise. I will make three specific proposals: the first is this model of Iceland, which, if you could think of it, would be tried out by a pilot in which clubs would be given the resources to manage these transports more efficiently. Now a lot of people who live in rush years are struggling with schedule pressures. The second is to bring hobbies to school. Then we also have this kind of Imatran model, where every Tuesday morning is reserved for sports activities in clubs. Could you think of this as a trial? And the third is that now that more and more exercise is being brought to day care,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u65	Mr President! Sports and sports policy reports have many dimensions. A few points of view. Thank you for having taken the title “Increasement in Living Life ” into this head of mine. In these respects, as important as social activity is, and for many clubs the source of livelihood is that different age groups are moved, the state and municipalities play a role in ensuring that people, especially those who cannot afford, have access to physical activity. People here are easily concerned, and there is reason to be concerned, especially about children whose parents are not able to afford any hobby activities. That's the responsibility of the state. In my opinion, when the state money, or in this case the lottery money, is distributed, I would first of all like to see greater transparency in the distribution of sports clubs and, secondly, in exchange for the receipt of the euro for these deprived families of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u66	Mr President! Of course, exercise and a healthy diet must always be dealt with together, and I am a little surprised that the speeches do not bring up junk food and the problems it causes for Finnish public health. Indeed, mobility must be balanced with what a person eats, and this kind of bringing out a healthy diet and healthy foods in this debate is therefore extremely important. Personally, I am concerned, such as Mr Multala, about the very children who move little, eat mushy food, unfortunately it is part of the family's culture and food culture, and in some way withdraw, perhaps play or do something else that does nothing to promote physical activity. Somehow these children and these families should be given some kind of education in a constructive way and, as it were, in an encouraging way, that where it leads over a long period of time. It would already be a major social welfare reform in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u67	Mr President! When we talk about the exercise policy report, Mr President, there is a particular reason why we are talking about this Icelandic model. Iceland certainly is about what Iceland did, that in two decades it managed to make Europe’s worst children and young people the best able children and young people in Europe. Last summer I went to Iceland to get to know this model, and last week Heida Björg Hilmisdottir, Deputy Mayor of Reykjavik, came here to tell us more about it. In terms of sports policy, there are two key issues here. It is what Mr Gustafsson pointed out that exercise and other leisure activities will be made available to all children on a school day holiday. And the other is that every child is guaranteed an activity card or another guided permanent, continuous hobby, as Mr Arhinmäki has spoken about. In other words, we know what to do, but this is what it is all about — and the eyes are on Minister Terho; I know that you too are familiar with this model of Iceland — what
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u68	Mr President! Now that we are talking about these different ways of organising sports activities in connection with school day, we must remember that many of us may have lived in Finland where the teacher lived at the school and then played baseball or football in the school field after school. But that Finland no longer exists, and in that sense we will have to deal with questions that I would like to see left the Ministry to find out: First of all, the interfaces between teaching and social activities, which today are in the municipalities. The responsibilities of municipal sports facilities are one of the reasons for what Mr. Elo said here about the fact that friends and höntsävärsi would like to go play together. The first question is who will take responsibility if something happens. In other words, this type of thing, I might say, quite bureaucratic things are currently blocking good civic activity and the activities of the friends from there. Then the views of the trade unions as to whether these are part of the teaching work and how much more must be paid. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u69	Mr President! I stayed to think about this conversation. We have had a lot of discussion about the possibility of physical activity and the success of mobility, especially in poor families, and how it has changed over the years. In fact, I remember that when I myself started sports, there was nothing like these space rentals and nothing like this kind of billing. There was only a grant from the municipalities to support the clubs so that athletes could buy equipment and operate within the sphere of sport. But then, slowly, the municipalities have had to change this structure in such a way that they have started to make payments, and then they have passed on to athletes, which knows that we have started to discriminate against the potential of sport in the poorest families. Then we have a wide variety of species, but this kind of experiment opportunity has been missed because we can't afford a number of instruments to get
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u70	Mr President! School exercise and also The mobile school has been a success story, but still not all children have been made to move, but there are children who are addicted to gaming machines and where there is no movement at all at home. In other words, we should find carrots, how to get digitality and gaming now, and this reward then, so that machines and equipment would force us to move. There are good examples of them, but there are more. As a question to the Minister: Organising international events is an important part of Finnish top-level sport, as they bring mobility closer to Finns in many ways and create a positive spirit, but then the municipalities will have a certain weight when new costs come from organising these international sports events. As a municipal decision-maker, I sometimes feel a little weak that what size a million - dollar note comes from there at any time. Even now, we are preparing for Ruka Nordic Opening, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u71	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk about children here, and the most important thing for the future is that more attention should be paid to the mobility of children. I would also like to comment on what Mr Kivelä has just mentioned: Today, more than 10 percent interrupt the military service because of poor physical or mental condition. The suggestion is that 30 municipalities would start an experiment like this, where municipalities, with the support of the state, would make such activities guided by physical activity before entering the service for these people. The cost would be about half a million euros. I would like to ask: is this possible? When much has been said here about equality, this would also be one such equal performance,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u72	It is somewhat unclear to me whether Mr Karimäki asked to speak at this stage of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u73	Mr President! I can use it, because there has been a lot of discussion about children's hobbies, which are important. — — — — After all, the Greens are in favour of bringing to school more opportunities for hobbies — morning activities, afternoon activities, and free of charge so that children with little means can participate — but it is also important that children can also engage in sports that they are passionate about and want to participate in some social activity. The Icelandic model, for example, works in such a way that a family with limited resources applies to the club for a fee exemption or a discount, and then the club applies for aid from the municipality and the municipality for aid from the State. That this is a good example of how to support children: on the one hand, an integrated school day, then on the other hand, this support through clubs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u74	Mr President! It is good to hear a coherent debate about our desire to increase physical activity and sport in Finland and especially the mobility of children and young people. It is the clubs that play an essential role, and, indeed, today, in many municipalities, especially small ones, we are ensuring the possibility of mobility for children and young people from low-income families, precisely through joint support. What would also be essential would be to get more professional training, sports and sports coaches into the clubs. It is perhaps an essential lesson from the world that how good training has been provided alongside voluntary activities. This is what we should be developing. Other professionals should also be taken into account, and good sports and sports training is also provided for young people by the Defence Forces, and it would be very good, as this report says, that we could improve the condition of young people even before the military service. This would be important not only for men but also for women in voluntary service, many of whom suffer injuries during service and are forced to interrupt. That would be a good thing. What is also important is that the strategy for major international events should:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u75	Mr President! A large proportion of Finns do not move enough. Less than 30 percent of girls and 35 percent of boys move at least an hour a day. Action to enable and promote physical activity is more than necessary and worthwhile. These habits are adopted at a young age. Each child is individual, and the interests are also individual. Yle’s recent survey of physical activity behaviour among children and young people has examined the most popular species. In the most popular species of 11 to 15-year-olds, such as dance and horse riding are high, for example higher than hockey, but social support for these species is often much lower than for some of the species generally favoured by boys.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been no special virtue in this race, but here I have spoken at least to the representatives of Arhinmäki, Heinonen, Puska, and let us see if there is still time. This debate will be adjourned at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u77	Mr President! There has been a great deal of concern about the drop-off phenomenon in the past. It has not been very much overlooked in this debate, but I would like to highlight it. It is partly related to what spokesperson Elo raised about how friends get to play. The problem is that when you come to puberty, many young people fall, a large number of young people fall from a hobby of exercise, and one of the key reasons for this is that the level of demands is, in a way, rising. Then we'll go racing, there'll be more and more exercises. Do associations offer opportunities for young people who would only like to have a hobby once or twice a week? Now it is necessary to have five or six hobbies a week, and at the same time there are other things. Therefore, sports policy must be geared towards supporting clubs in the presence of such teams at amateur level. And the second point is that nearby sports facilities are needed
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u78	Mr President! Sports, sports, top sports all support each other and are an important entity. I would like to raise three points in the assessment of the impact on physical activity: It would be important for all decisions to be evaluated in the future as to whether they increase physical activity or reduce physical activity. I am sure many have noticed — Mr Arhinmäki has made excellent contributions to local sports — that if school investments and other sports facilities were to be made, they would not pay much in connection with the investment. Or have you noticed how most of the best places in the school, near kindergartens, are reserved for parking for staff? We could get some exercise in there. Secondly, I challenge companies to build sports parks. Sports parks close to companies, they would support such exercise and also employee activity. And I am in favour of reducing the value added tax on exercise to 10, reduced VAT rates. Actually, that would be quite an investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u79	Mr President! There has been a great deal of discussion in this debate about the children's issue, about the Finnish Icelandic model and about moving school. But, of course, we should also remember the whole: the exercise of the working age, the exercise of the workplace, and then the exercise of the elderly, which, in terms of the cost of social services over the next few years, is absolutely central. It is really important to remember that our main health problems are related to certain lifestyles, according to the WHO, food, exercise, alcohol and tobacco. There is usually one thing we are talking about here, and quite understandably, Mr Estilä also raised the issue of food. It is true that the importance of physical activity has grown as society changes, and the key is the whole daily exercise that needs to be promoted. I would like to see that, after the social welfare reform, the importance of these actors is emphasised by the fact that in different municipal decision-making they make a major contribution to the daily exercise of the population. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u80	Finally, the replies, the representatives of Elo, Ala-Nissila, Laiho, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u81	Mr President! Rarely can you say that, but there is very little I disagree with Mr Arhinmäki. That is an excellent speech. In fact, I would simply add that, in addition to those who actually happen to fall from social activity during puberty, they should be caught up with those who never go to that social activity, even at primary school or like that, that is to say, how to involve them. I would see that it is precisely through such groups of friends, not even in clubs, but even more informal ones, who are able to book public sports and thus get a hobby. On the other hand, the private side should also be raised, i.e., for example, sports adventure parks, which today are a lot of them, are an excellent addition to this exercise kavalkad. If I think of my own son, a three - year - old, he prefers to go there. If anything is presented, moving in such a park is what you want most. Even the private side is very important here. So we combine the strengths of the private side and then this public side,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u82	Mr President! We really need sufficient resources and we also need people's own responsibility for their own mobility, community. Where does the Icelandic model show up? It will be seen as a great success in team sports. I'd pay attention to team sports. During the time of Minister Karpela, for the first time, a team sport allowance became available and team sports were better taken into account. In Finland, I still think that the funding of team sports has fallen short of individual sport. Take, for example, the volleyball Power Cup event. I don't know of any more spectacular event for young people, and it's the community that exists in team sports. I would like to ask Minister Terho: do you see that in Finland, in relation to other countries, the support and attention of team sports has been adequately taken into account also in view of the international success that is taking place in, for example, volleyball, basketball, even in football today, not to mention hockey?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u83	Mr President! The absence of movement kills, and it is therefore really necessary to put physical activity in its place of importance. In particular, non-movement increases obesity and hence diabetes and also predisposes to cardiovascular diseases. Many back problems would be unsatisfied if enough exercise were done, and the mind would be more alert. It could be that depression would be less, or if there were symptoms, exercise would also make it easier. Mobility should be made a part of everyday life right from childhood, but when we know that not all families move in the same way, that is why the share of day care and school becomes significant. Today, the assembly declared its programme for children and families, and it proposes that at least one hour during school day there should be physical exercise and even more in kindergarten, in this direction, and we will get all the children involved. I'd like to pick up some more school exercise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u84	I now give the Minister the floor for three minutes from the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u85	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, great that there has now been a long debate on the development of Finnish physical activity at such an authoritative location, and that is already a step forward in itself. We have now come up with a few themes that I am particularly keen to highlight in this short time. One is this holistic approach that several representatives have brought to bear, which could perhaps be summed up in particular on the question of how young people of school age could do better, and I, as a minister, have had the opportunity to get the views of a number of different professionals, which correspond to the views expressed by quite a number of representatives on this issue. In other words, one of the most important advances that is needed is that the facilities that already exist in connection with schools, for example, are also made available and made available during school hours when the parents are still at work, which makes it much easier for families to exercise and maintain it. Then, if these facilities or leisure facilities are built, they really must be not the parking lot, but rather the very resort in the closest possible vicinity of the school, or transportation to the hobby site is required. Still, the time better be when the parents are still at work. But what is also needed, what was brought up here and what is easy to forget sometimes is that there really must be someone there who is responsible for those young people, and also someone who knows how to train them if they want to be more effective. This, on the other hand, requires clubs, voluntary parents — tens of thousands of adults in Finland are doing a very good job of training young people. And then there really is a need for these sports facilities and their support and support for clubs, so we are indeed in a very multi-administrative question-making process. These are both families, municipalities, parishes and the state in the same package. Several of the draft measures in the report respond precisely to these questions, but with just one measure it is difficult to summarise or resolve this. And as far as this intersectoral coordination body is concerned, which was also mentioned in various speeches, including Mr Harkimo, it should be launched as soon as possible. On the other hand, there is a natural place to deal, among other things, with the issue of VAT, which many have raised, for example, because it is precisely what I in my ministry cannot decide or dictate how it should be resolved. Among other things, the Mobility School programme was raised at the second stage, its slower progress than might have been hoped for. However, there are 140 educational institutions involved, and I am sure the pace will increase now that we have this Mobility Study project, which has funding of 2.8 million. A brief question was asked about major events. The major event strategy really is in preparation and will specifically look at what kind of events Finland would be able to apply for. — Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u86	Looks like we're running out of time for the debat. Or are there still a few more speeches? This ends at 4 p.m. I'll take Mr. Hautala first.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u87	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation of this report on sports policy. These speeches have clearly heard that school sports play a major role. In fact, children learn to move after their first years of life, and so it is good if they learn to move for life. Of course, municipalities and cities are responsible for a significant part of sports facilities. It has now been welcomed that nearby sports facilities have been built in many municipalities and cities, which are very popular. In the taste of the rest of my municipality, Kauhajoki has done this. Many have pointed out here that accrual payments are a significant cost item, especially for low-income families. For them, in our municipality of residence, we ourselves introduced this year that no person under 16 years of age would be charged any fees at all, for example, for the use of a swimming pool, and that has significantly increased their number of uses. In many other municipalities, I recommend such a similar type of payment reduction or exemption.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u88	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here today about children and young people, and that is a good thing, and that is what we need to talk about. But I agree with Mr Puska that we also have a major problem with the immobility of the elderly. We have elderly people in their own homes and community homes who will never get out — never even if they want to. This exposes them to depression and many other diseases and very quickly weakens their ability to function. There is, of course, a great deal of human suffering for this, but also an ever-increasing cost for society. We need more medical staff for home care and community homes, but we also need more civic activity. In other words, for example, sports and cultural bodies could make it possible for an elderly person to go for a run and a concert. This kind of civic activity should have been taken even more into account in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u89	Mr President! I would also stress the attitude of how to move and how to do things in everyday life. The movement in the forest is less overlooked here, everyday mobility, but this comprehensive, which takes into account the family as a whole and the food yet, is forced to raise mushrooming and berrying, this kind of family being together, which is very good both physically and mentally. So that's one thing. And I'm still raising my bike. If this were a transport policy report, the same speech would be appropriate. Our climate issues, things like this, what came up here earlier, are indeed of general interest and of common interest to Finland, and in it the importance of cycle paths is great.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u90	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here about exercise, but less about top sports. I would like to thank the Minister already for taking one step forward, which is also mentioned in this report on sports policy, which means that the grant would no longer have the effect of reducing the amount of study money for future students. This is a very important step forward, because top athletes, especially young top athletes, often have very poor income. The report also highlights the need to find a solution to the social and pension security of athletes. I would therefore like this to be dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and to consider how to promote this issue, at least to prepare for it, because I believe that we will still have a lot to do in the next period when the overall reform of social security is being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u91	Mr President! It is natural that in this debate children and young people have taken precedence, because the physical way of life is devoted, if you own it, usually then. A few words about adult exercise. Of the adult population, only one in five moves sufficiently for their health. In Finland, a number of community sports projects have been implemented in working communities in recent decades and a sports voucher system has been built to support the exercise activities of employees. This is good, but unfortunately it usually only supports people who already exercise. In the light of research data, as an adult, immobility can best be reduced by lifestyle guidance and mobility counselling. That is why it would be very important to get lifestyle guidance and sports advice to work communities as an integral part of occupational health care. This would be in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u92	Madam President! Thank you for this speech, because sitting is killing me. It is good to stand up sometimes, and now this opportunity came. I would like to thank you for the contributions that recommend that sports facilities be built in connection with schools. It's important. We must allow our children a good opportunity to move, but it must of course be said that when the Minister expressed the view that there should then be an opportunity to move there, we have, of course, today the municipalities are very snooping towards afternoon clubs in preschool education and do not want to increase its costs. On the other hand, with regard to the democratic nature of sports-place construction in all respects, when we are talking about this mobility of people, I would like to involve our four-legged friends in this debate, for example, with regard to agility and horse-riding, which move Finns a lot. We should also have the kind of democracy in the construction of sports facilities that not only power types would take all the money.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u93	Mr President! Over the years, I have noticed that a person who is shy, who has become over-pounded and very poor in condition, whether young or a little older, needs a self-helper, needs a lifter who inspires him and takes him along. So I ask: would it be possible for the government to experiment with a couple and then hire personal trainers — even young people like this profession, and a lot of young people are prepared to do it — to guide, pick up the people from the places where they live and bring them to this training, whatever the sport? There would be such a searching search, they would inspire, and this would allow these people to try out and communityly join, when unfortunately there is a lot of depression. Is it possible to think about this kind of experiment? And work for younger people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u94	All right, we have now spent the time, in fact, beyond that time, so the debate and the debate will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u95	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u96	Mr President! Exercise is of enormous importance to public health. It would be very important for children and young people to get excited about exercise as early as possible and to get used to moving around a lot. Technological development has brought many alternatives to the lives of children and young people that feed physical passivity. Smartphones, tablets, game consoles and computers reduce interest in outdoor games and exercise. Therefore, the health effects and fun of mobility should be highlighted by familiarising children with different species and leisure activities. Mr President! What can society do to encourage children and young people to exercise? One important factor is, of course, the price of hobbies. The state must support the affordable pursuit of sports activities and different species. In addition, the state must support municipalities in developing sports facilities and conditions. Such investments bring good results in the long term, as physical activity prevents exclusion, improves public health and reduces the use of drugs, for example. Another important issue is investing in top-notch sport. What do we get when a Finnish athlete or team succeeds internationally at the world championship or Olympic level, for example? In addition to fame and honor, we also provide young people with examples that encourage physical activity. Mr President! It is also useful to continue exercising as an adult. The more people exercise regularly, the more people stay healthy longer and live longer. Exercise activities often also help to adopt otherwise healthy lifestyles, such as a healthy diet and intoxication. Exercise has a major public health significance that we must maintain and cherish. Under the conditions of modern society, increasing the amount of physical activity requires a consistent focus on the exercise habits of children and young people in particular. Mr President! Currently, state funding for sports is based on the returns of Veikkaus’ gambling business. The state’s sports budget, financed from betting funds, amounts to approximately EUR 155 million per year. The share of budget funding has typically been only around EUR 1 million per year. The proportion of budget funding should therefore be raised. Bettings have decreased in the 2000s as the gambling market changes. Despite its monopolistic position, he has faced ever-increasing international competition, as the internet allows Finns to play almost anywhere. In fact, much more support should be given to physical activity throughout the life of a person and to increasing physical activity from budget funds. This should be seen as an investment that will come back multiple times with better public health and the well-being of the population.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u97	Mr President! The completed report on sports policy contains a deep concern about the limited mobility of Finns, but above all the proposals for solutions with a positive attitude: there is something we can do about this. I myself belong to the generation who, quite without question, rode on a bicycle several kilometres of school trips and did exercise unwittingly, as there were four games and there was movement in the yard. Parents were not very sensitive to questions about rides, and the same was the case with friends. When I think back 30 to 40 years, there were hardly any round or even overweight children and young people in my own age group. On the other hand, in teaching, I have seen a trend over the last 20 years of increasing the number of overweight children among those of high school age. There are explanations for the increasing mobility of leisure activities to become increasingly static, stationary, for example, to play at a computer. Of course, there's team gaming and hanging out with friends, but there's not gonna be much more exercise than a mouse finger. In fact, combined with the frequent consumption of soft drinks and unhealthy food, the recipe is poor and overweight. During today’s government, comprehensive schools were introduced The Mobility School project aimed at financing mobility incentives for schools. Teachers were trained to make teaching their own subject more physical and to encourage students to leave the desk. The principals made room for long recesses in the course of the class, giving the event an opportunity for a quick game of telegram or some other type of team. Students were trained to give guided recess exercise to their schoolmates. Feedback The Mobility School project has been so good that it is expanding into early childhood education and among secondary and university students. Between 2020 and 2022, 4 million of the state funds have been allocated to the ECEC programme. We're gonna have to find another one of those guys in the county. When children are young, they adapt to their family’s moving habits. The children of the active family retain their active habits and active participation in the mobile game. The children of passive families are naturally active at the age of two or three years, but then the family’s habits begin to take hold. It is good that the possibility of more active childhood is offered at an early stage through games and games. An appropriation of between 3 and 4 million has been budgeted for the second stage project per year for the period 2019 to 2021. This also requires the participation of the municipality in the other half. The number of educational institutions registered for the project has so far been disappointingly low. Is the age group challenging to reach, has the project not been marketed enough, or have teachers lost their focus not only on access to information but also on healthy lifestyles? Overall The Mobility School project aims to prevent the realization of a frightening vision in which we are growing increasingly ill and sicker adults from our children and young people. The vision is frightening in terms of public health, but also humane. Mr President! Other parts of the population must also be made to move more, eat healthier and make more intelligent health-promoting choices in their lives. You can always do a lifestyle renovation, and it is never too late to fix your way of life. In my hometown of Raahe, there is an example of a man who has made a life - style renovation. Leo Sassi, who retired from the CEO’s duties, was awakened by a giftbook from his wife’s daughter. Healthy eating and regular exercise resulted in a drop of 55 kg and discontinuation of antidiabetic and antihypertensive medicines. Well, well, well, well, well. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Probability for longer life has increased, but above all life tastes better lighter and more sustainable than everyday stress. Society also benefits when encounters with health authorities take place on a jogging path rather than in a hospital. We need positive examples such as Leo of people who take responsibility for their own life and their own health. With the social and regional reforms, municipalities are responsible for welfare and health services for their residents. They should be promoted, for the consequences will be seen directly in the purses of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u98	Mr President! That is where Mr Mattila well described the importance of home and loved ones to human health and its direct connection with mobility and increased physical activity. In this debate on the report on sport policy, which has been under discussion today, at least I personally found that there was talk of early childhood education and basic education, but I do not think that the importance of home was sufficiently emphasised. Young people learn to move if they receive such education and guidance from home. The kind of skill learned as a child is then as a parent as a way of life, and in that sense the importance of the home is especially important in this coming of physical activity into the lives of young people. Self-operational and guided exercise is also a matter that is well dealt with in this report. Self-motivated sports can be performed by young people and children in play and leisure — it does not always have to be that social activity as team sports or as an individual — and the importance of the home is also very important. Personal exercise can be done on the terrain, in the forest, in the yard, anywhere, and it is a very inexpensive form of mobility that young people can engage in. Finally, in a few speeches here today, top-level sport has risen. Of course, high-sports are important if we are to have models and success and identify with them. There is much to be said about whether support for top-level sport is going to be fair and whether different species are in an equal position with each other. But all in all, top sport is a good example for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u99	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have had one of the most important debates of this period, in my opinion, when we are discussing the first report on sport policy in history. It is wonderful that such an extensive document has now been prepared, and in fact, after 12 years of working on the State Sports Council and now 4 years as its vice-president, I am pleased that this kind of intersectoralism has also been included in this debate and decision-making on sport and sport. We have in fact heard all the ministers of this government on the State Sports Council under the leadership of President Tapio Korjus this season, which is to say that they have been there to tell their own sector. Last time, Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo came to our hearings last week, and we will be making such a score card out of all ministries and their administrative branches, which is what we are trying to do to increase physical activity in the various administrative sectors. Even taxation can either increase or reduce physical activity. Many diseases would have been prevented or treated if we walked for an hour each day. According to a good rule of thumb, you should first strive for 7,000 steps a day in the weather as in the weather. However, recent statistics from the National Institute for Health and Welfare, THL, tell us quite different. More than a quarter of us don't move much at all. On the other hand, at the same time, more and more people are moving and exercising all the time. However, even in part the recommendations are not met, no matter how effective the sweat exercise is, if only one or twice a week is exercised. In fact, the lack of mobility is becoming apparent in younger people, and the number of overweight people has been growing for a long time among high school students, high school students and vocational schoolchildren. However, regular exercise works like a medicine, and it is good for all of us. Exercise has a positive effect on all bones, muscles and tendons. According to a study by THL, the proportion of Finns has increased in four years, especially those who do not move at all. That is why we need more incentives to move now. More and more people are seeking active physical activity from now-led groups, gyms or, for example, horsemen. However, the prices of guided exercise vary widely, and even the VAT interpretations that limit physical activity are contributing to this. In my view, the VAT rates on sport and sport should be harmonised precisely at a reduced rate of 10%. The current situation is very open to interpretation and confusion. This has not been clarified by the tax authorities' instructions, and there are even differences between exactly the same services, depending on the operator and even the professional title of the service provider. As Mrs Wallinheimo said some time ago in that debate, it may be that four people are doing the same bicep movement and that their activities have a different rate of taxation. The taxation of sports services today depends on the type of sport or, in fact, on the form in which it is exercised. Education and training are included in general services subject to a high 24 percent tax rate, but so-called ‘directed exercise’, on the other hand, is subject to a reduced tax rate. The interpretation is confusing and certainly not unambiguous as to which services are taxed with a general VAT rate of 24% and a reduced rate of 10%. Sometimes I feel that content is not even decisive, but who knows how to name a course or action correctly. Getting to a higher VAT rate for sports services or hobbies increases the price of sports hobbies by 14 per cent. One example could be swimming schools, including baby swimming, which were considered to be at a higher, or higher, tax rate for a long time. Swimming schools still do. At the same time, if the gym operator controls the use of equipment, VAT is lower. According to the tax authority’s interpretation, personal trainer services go beyond guidance, thereby increasing VAT to 24%. You can guess how much these services are sold in Finland under the name of guidance. Some of them even seem to be determined by the type of training and title used to run the business. Mr President! A higher VAT base is used for aerobics and yoga but also for guided cycling and hiking and horse riding. However, the reduced rate is not directly accepted, for example, for all types of horse riding. Similarly, swimming education is a higher tax because, according to the tax authority, it is not a matter of guided exercise, but of teaching. It is easy to say that this makes no sense. The tax authorities' policies reduce physical activity in this country. On the contrary, decisions should encourage mobility and increased physical activity, which is why the taxation of physical activity and sport must be harmonised at a lower rate. I believe that the benefits of this would come back many times. Indeed, the leverage effect of the lower rate would be significant, and the benefits of increasing physical activity would also be reflected in the preventive expenditure on health expenditure. This would be precisely an investment in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, quite rightly, Mr Heinonen, 5 minutes at this stage is the recommendation that the Council of Presidents has made for this debate. But a representative who has an exceptionally important amount to say can of course go beyond that time, as is the case here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u101	Mr President! I have something extraordinarily important to say, but I will say it very briefly. Indeed, physical activity is also a matter of individual responsibility and, at the same time, of society’s requirements. I remember when Prime Minister Harri Holker was brought in with these problems, he somehow said that it could be climbed in the trees, and there is some wisdom here too, but not the whole truth. Indeed, the prerequisites for sports and exercise are essential. I myself do indoor balling, and in Finland the conditions are weak or avoid. Indeed, such multi-function halls are needed in Finland, where you can move around in a variety of ways. Then perhaps commercial events, concerts and others can also be arranged so that they function in a diverse way. Also, no ice halls should be made in Finland if there are no indoor ball games and other sports opportunities. In other words, when there are circumstances, they create exercise and also its development forwards and peaks. Indeed, I believe that this development in recent years has been in the direction of team sports from the bottom to the upper level. Individual sport is important, but it has decreased rather than team sports, and I think that, although there is a Vice-President of the Sports Council here, team sports may not yet be sufficiently taken into account in the activities of the Sports Council, for example, if you compare with Sweden what the emphasis is on. This is not a parliamentary Question Time, but the Vice-President of the Sports Council could ask: how do you see this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u102	At this stage, it is appropriate to say that the microphones on the tables are set at the same height for both lengths and lengths, and, Mr Ala-Nissila, you belong to the first category, so if you speak slightly closer to the microphone, you would be even better off.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u103	Mr President! How do we increase the mobility of Finns and secure the future of top-notch sports? This has been addressed for the first time at national level by the first report on sports policy in Finland. Thank you for this to the government, which has set out concrete guidelines, how, through cooperation between all the actors, Finns can experience the joy of physical activity and sport in the future. Mobility must be made easy, and everyone should be able to find the joy of mobility. Exercise should not be valued, but all forms of exercise are valuable, whether it be useful sports or competitive sports, alone or together. In particular, increasing day-to-day exercise is a key factor in the maintenance of health and should be facilitated by supporting lifestyle changes as well as by means of transport solutions, where the emphasis on walking and cycling has been put on support already during this government term. Much more has already been done to promote mobility and impact has been achieved. A mobile school is a good example of this. The effective model now needs to be extended to young and older people in early childhood education, to secondary education and to higher education institutions, i.e. wherever children and young people are ready. Starting and maintaining the sports spark is also a function of the Defence Forces, so that we will have a functional reserve in the future. The goal must be that in the future fewer and fewer men or women will fail to perform the service or are in the process of failing due to poor physical condition. So we've got to cut this down. There is therefore a need to influence the ability of the garrisons even before entering the ministry. The report proposes that 30 municipalities start a comprehensive experiment in which municipalities offer a three-month guided exercise, free of charge and with the support of the state, before entering the service. If the experiment proved to be effective, it could be extended to all municipalities. Mr President! Sport-friendly sports facilities must be diverse and of high quality, which are already available in many municipalities, regardless of their size. It must also continue to be possible to travel in the forest and in the natural environment, and it is good that more funding has now been allocated to the renovation of Metsähallitus' natural routes. Municipal sports facilities must also be accessible and used by everyone from morning to evening. Similar sports opportunities are an issue of equality from the perspective of people with reduced mobility, but sports facilities and hobbies must also be available at regional level and for families with different incomes. I am concerned about children and young people in a sparsely populated area who are covered by school transport. After school day, parents now need to have their own transportation back to the school and to the settlements so that their children can also have access to sports facilities and clubs. One solution for this can be to continue school day with sports hobbies and clubs, after which there is still a delivery home, or that after homework and snacks, transportation has been arranged for hobbies. Mr President! The clubs do excellent work in Finland, and they are central to making mobility and sport possible for all ages. We can also look at examples of the development of club activities from elsewhere, even though Finland always has to make its own functional model. We have highlighted from the centre, as many other groups, for example today, Iceland's operating model, where almost all children are involved in social activities. More species can be practiced in the company, and it is inexpensive to move around. In Finland, at least one free hobby should be secured by cooperation between schools, clubs and clubs. An essential lesson from Iceland is also that sports coaches are professionals trained in clubs. This has brought the work to a new level alongside voluntary action. At the same time, social activity supports the growth of a child as a traveler, but also through a community of people who exercise as a person. This has also provided a healthy, safe and inclusive environment for young people in fjords. Mr President! Top sports are important for the Finnish identity and the Maabrand and offer us examples to encourage people to move around. In order to develop top-level sports, it is important to put the whole area of sports management in order in Finland and transfer the responsibility for leading top-level sports to the Olympic Committee. The success of athletes will be based both on the establishment of an Olympic fund and on the support of young athletes, which this period has provided with additional funding, in particular to improve the livelihood of low-income athletes. The structures supporting top athletes will continue to include sports colleges and sports upper secondary schools, sports training organisations and sports facilities suitable for competitive training. If there is to be more top athletes in Finland, more sports facilities must also be brought to the level required by professional sports. International major events and high-value competitions are also a key part of sport. Big events bring top-notch sports closer to Finns, create a positive spirit and leave money in Finnish society. Finland must continue to strive for the organisation of value competitions and other major events of different species. The success of this will affect the development of many sports and our tourism. — Can I read two more sentences? [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : Win. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u106	Mr President! Exercise as part of health care is also an important consideration. Now that there is also a social and regional reform under discussion here in Parliament, the importance of health care and the integration of physical activity into it remain a strong responsibility of the municipalities, and that is why I think that this report has given due consideration to this too. As a continuum, I can tell you that sports and sports facilities for older people must also be taken into account in municipalities, because they are such nearby sports facilities. There has been a great deal of discussion here about schools, where there are sports facilities for young people, but there is also a need for older people to be there. They often have well paved sidewalks where they can move safely and with aids, but it is worth keeping the elderly in mind when the report is made. After all, the construction of sports facilities and the promotion of sports facilities will be increasingly the responsibility and responsibility of municipalities in the future, and I hope that many of us in this Chamber will also be determined to invest in the construction of sports facilities in our own municipalities. In the previous speech it was mentioned that Finland has significant and good sports facilities. It is true, but for them to be accessible to all of us, the municipalities must also consider and reflect on those people who do not live in those municipal centres or near the cities and these sports halls, and then on the maintenance and winter maintenance of light traffic routes and these municipal decision-makers must take care of and thus promote healthy physical activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u107	Mr President! Although you liked my last speech and allowed me to go a little over the top, now I promise I will stay within that period, even though I will try to make a good speech to that end. Mr President! Representative Ala-Nissilä raised this question and asked how we have the state to support sports construction. In fact, last week, at the State Sports Council, we discussed the funding plan for the next four years, [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u110	Mr President! Although the success of top athletes is a shared cause for joy, and we in the Republic have enjoyed success in recent years too, I would like to pay particular attention in this speech to the sportspeople and those who would be happy to start exercising. Indeed, the greatest benefits, and also the greatest savings, would be available for those who are very little mobile as health care expenditure fell. The health and well-being effects of exercise are undeniable. But we should not blame or patronize those who move a little; instead, it is the duty of society to make exercise activities as easy, profitable and attractive as possible. Good nearby sports facilities play a key role in this. There is not always a need for very large sports facilities, gadgets or equipment, as it is noteworthy that one of the most popular sports facilities in Finland is the fairway of light traffic. That is why it is important how the roads of light traffic are sanded and plowed now when winter comes. We know from the studies that individual health choices have a significant impact on the whole course of life. The better the conditions for active life for middle-aged and young pensioners, the longer the ability to function and self-activity will remain. The adoption of a physical lifestyle at the earliest possible stage of life is therefore an important measure to prevent illness and increase the quality of life. Physical activity prevents many health problems and reduces later use of social and health services. Mr President! The mobile school has been a good project, and the project has brought more physical education and daily exercise to children’s school days. The report before us contains excellent proposals The extension of the Mobility School project to secondary and higher education. It is necessary to extend the programme, as students sit considerably. According to a study by the Student Sports Association, students will have to sit up to ten hours a day, and such amounts are extremely harmful to their health. If the basic condition is already poor for students, it will soon also be a problem for working life. Mobility, well-being and youth support the overall well-being of the individual and anticipates physical adulthood and improves well-being during the working life phase. In order to promote a mobile lifestyle, we also need low-threshold sports models for children and young people, so that children and young people can experiment with different sports in sports clubs, for example, and find the most suitable form of exercise for themselves. The mobility of children does not need to be aimed at racing sports. In my opinion, the most important thing would be for every child and young person to find the joy of mobility. From time to time, there has been a discussion about the equal opportunity of children to engage in activities such as family background or wealth. Exercise must not only become the right of children of well-managed families. It is therefore good that this debate is taking place and that the problem has been raised. Mr President! Yesterday we had a wonderful sunny freezing day in Savo, which cherishes the mind and well-being, and makes you remember the importance of nature sports. Many feel that moving in nature is simply followed by feeling healthy and well, caring for the mind and body, and helping to cope. The more often nature moves, the more nature affects well-being. Nature revives and helps to heal from stress, and at the same time the relationship with nature is strengthened. We are beginning to have quite a lot of information about the health effects of nature. As far as nature is concerned, I would like to stress the importance of local nature so that nature does not always have to be acquired specifically and effortlessly, but is naturally part of the everyday environment. Many colleagues are also municipal decision-makers, and maintaining close nature is primarily a matter of municipal planning decisions. We in the centre have outlined our new policy programme that everyone should have the opportunity to enjoy greenery around them and get into the forest with blueberry. We want parks and forests to be close in cities too. The built environment must also support people's well-being and health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u111	Mr President! In fact, Mr Jarva's speech once again woke me up to think about this model of Iceland, which many here today spoke about. I would rather talk about the Finnish model than the Icelandic model. If you think of Iceland as a country, there are 300,000 inhabitants and practically everyone lives in Reykjavík, so...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u114	Mr President! I myself tend to prefer to speak about the Finnish model, and I can take these examples, but I would hope that homes and families will be the example of finding the way to build a mobile Finland and a mobile Finnish person, because this is Finland, and, as was compared in the previous speech, we are regionally so different that in order to achieve that equality of treatment and accessibility, we have to find our own model for this. There are certainly plenty of different sports and sports in Finland. Here a speech was then raised to one nature movement. It is a very good and easy option, and nature is within reasonable reach of us Finns everywhere. Whether there is a person living in a city or in rural areas, it is still easy to get to nature in Finland. It is refreshing and indeed inexpensive, and you can move freely according to your rights and respect for them. Representative Heinonen described Finnish projects very well, and that is probably a good tip for us decision-makers that we should apply for these projects and that is how we can make new investments in sports facilities in different regions. He also said that 7,000 steps are a good amount of exercise. That's probably right. I myself have used the step gauge of a Finnish manufacturer and set a target of 15,000 steps. On a normal working day here in Parliament, there will only be 4500 to 5000 steps and 7000 of me, at least for myself, just too much. At least 15,000, then I feel like I've even moved in some way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u115	Mr President! Let us now talk about the Finnish model and what we should learn from elsewhere. This opening and discussion, which was also highlighted in the group statement by Mr Kosonen, are mainly related to how we could develop social activities and how we develop it, when quite a lot of volunteers are currently responsible for our coaching and the running of social activities in Finland, and there are, of course, challenges in that respect. But perhaps the idea is more what I have spoken to professional trainers, how we can make the most of it, when we are currently training professionals in the sports sector, and quite little can be done since sport federations and big clubs are currently using the skills of these sports professionals, and how we can improve their skills, especially in the training of children and young people, and in the management and development of full physical activity. Of course, then, it should reflect on the financing model, how it is organised, whether families are involved in financing how much the municipalities would fund, whether the economy is involved. Of course, of course, all of this should then be the subject of our own study of this model, but it can be seen that, while we have a lot of sports professionals, for example, at sports colleges and universities, and so on, we may not have made sufficient use of all this potential to move children and young people and also sports training.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u116	Mr President! In my opinion, Mr Jarva was very keen on the idea that we now have professional trainers who would certainly be able to go to school at the moment. However, they are paid by a company or someone, and they do not need to be paid separately to go to school. On the whole, the problem may arise in the idea of flexible school day, that teachers are not happy to stay there after school day then and that someone should still be there to monitor and responsibilities and then all teachers, even if they are not there. So this is a bit of a problem, but it is certainly worth developing this idea overall. Mr President! Today, in fact, many times we thanked Jyväskylä for what it has done for physical activity, and it is true that we certainly do a lot of good things for physical activity, and we really want to be the national capital of physical activity, but we too certainly have something to improve in Jyväskylä. For example, we still do not have the central government shares of municipalities divided into state sports, which means that we do not even comply with the average regulation that municipalities normally place on it. Unfortunately, it flows many times into everything other than sports and sports, and many times I have wondered why this money is really not earmarked for physical activity in Finland. That if these were earmarked for physical activity, when they were originally intended there, they would certainly go there better, because now the situation is that these non-earmarked portions of municipalities are going to much more than just sports and sports.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u117	Mr President! I was talking here earlier about the building of physical activity, and one of the important things that has been important was that we wanted to have better conditions for top sports and also to apply for value contests in such a broad sense to different species. For this purpose and with this in mind, a new deck arena is being built in Tampere, for example, and the Kymi Ring motorway is being built, including repairing our Olympic Stadium and a few others. New species have also been one of the priorities, so we have wanted emerging new species, nearby sports facilities, skate parks. But for example, a big air place could also be something that I would like to see in Finland in the future. In addition, equality between sports and equality between sportsmen has been one of the priorities. We have also raised the issue of so-called girls' species. In recent years, the history of horseback riding has also come under subsidised projects, and agility was also brought under sport and state aid. Mr President! We will also consider how support will be sufficient in the future. In fact, it is currently under discussion as to how this state aid for sports facilities should be reformed. It seems that in some areas the maximum amount, 750,000, is not necessarily enough to mobilise small municipalities, and this needs to be looked at again. Mr President! I welcome the fact that top-level sport is now receiving 20 million capital funds, so that when sport collects one million, the state will give another million. This will give us a 40 million pot, which will, in fact, hopefully increase the funding for top-level sport. We need top athletes, we need international success. They're good activaters for small juniors, too. They will then be happy to make those airstrips, play and sports, jump the hill, just as I was inspired by Matti Nykänen as a little boy. Mr President! I also think it is important that the reform of the lottery law is progressing and that the second stage of the law is being prepared. The next government will be in the important place that we will be able to keep the betting profits of Veikkaus to this level in the future. Mr President! According to my calculations, the opposition has not used a single speech in addition to group speeches and debat, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u118	Mr President! In my opinion, Mr Heinonen was very committed to this exercise site construction and to how its input—output thinking should be strong, so that it is built where as much movement as possible can be achieved. This is a little problematic from the point of view of sports training centres, for example. Next year, only one of our 13 to 14 physical education centres will invest and invest specifically in future growth. Now we are living in the top years of the economy, and yet only and only one can invest in growth in the future. This does make me wonder whether we have a physical education centre structure and what we should do about it in the future, because there will be about 15 million dollars a year, and whether our sports training centres are where people are. It is worth considering this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u119	Mr President! Mr Heinonen, you mentioned that at this stage the opposition has not spoken at all. Now I've decided to take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u122	Mr President! With regard to these sports facilities, you can only say that welcome to Kainuu for example, where you can find free sports opportunities for children and young people. They are also offered to pensioners from the gym. There, too, our municipality has free access and in that way they want to maintain the fitness of children, young people and elderly people. And then, you know, to build these gymnasiums, by the way. It is also necessary to cooperate with companies in that sense if they are, for example, operators and operators. A good example is the future Vuokatti Arena, which is being built. It also uses environmental friendliness through the development of energy-efficient models there. There is also a municipality involved, but the majority are business operators involved and it is then a business project. It then seeks business support for the construction and running of its activities as a project in the form of a company and demonstrates its strong cooperation between the public and private sectors. Both will benefit, get good facilities at national and international level, for example for hockey. There will be a double hall and it will be in direct contact with the swimming pool for heating and cooling systems, i.e. new technologies will also be developed there. Then again, when Mrs Wallinheimo raised these training centres for physical activity and spoke of the need to concentrate where people are. I would see, however, that it would be important for this model too to see where there are specific and good opportunities for performance, competitive opportunities, and it is precisely the best conditions for the species that must be considered, not so much the population.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u123	Mr President! It is a great thing that the strong power of the opposition, Mr Semi, came to speak with an expert on sports. With the words of the speech, when you brought up these artificial snowboards, what they are now called: I come from a region that has had a bad snow situation for a few years now, and we have a couple of sports clubs that have made a few kilometres of skis in their own areas, with the help of entrepreneurs, which have already been able to start skiing in November. There has indeed been this fee. It is true that it is important for these to be free places, but as long as they remain the responsibility of sports clubs or some local entrepreneur, at least I myself am inclined to accept that users in that respect pay the costs for making it and keeping the snow during the summer. It is a great effort always from these sports clubs and volunteers, and it does cost fuel, and other engine power is needed. In this respect, I understand the cost of it for adults. We also allow children to ski in it without compensation, and in the same way, there are free cable shifts for young people, but there are no adult, working people in this case. Of course, however, it would have to be an effort for municipalities and society to manage the maintenance of the renovation and the maintenance of the ski networks, and therefore to get the ski resorts in order during the winter, and, of course, for the halls, hockey halls and others, this is the same. But it is unfortunate that, when these costs are quite high, these charges also have to be collected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u124	Mr President! Mr Jarva's comment: we have extremely well-functioning sports training centres, sports colleges such as Vuokatti, Kuortane and so on, but are they all? Perhaps my question was this: will it be possible to organise it everywhere in the future? Another big thing, in fact, which I think is not sufficiently taken into account here, is the funding of physical activity in the future. What happens in 10, 15, 20 years? At the moment, the winnings come to about 155 million, but do we have a bet in 10 years, 15 years from now? At the moment, the world of bet is that in the digital world, more and more are played all the time and more and more are played abroad. This does give some thought to whether anyone in Finland has yet prepared a possible road map for the fact that there will not be a Veikkaus in 15 to 20 years' time. I'm sure it's not. This is why we should systematically start putting certain entities into the state budget gradually, so that if this kind of catastrophic one-time rush comes, then we will be prepared for it. But this is a place of reflection that I believe has not yet been done enough in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u125	Mr President! For the first snowshoes and for the voluntary work there on the track: I know indeed that this is the case, that the clubs do the work there and take care of the tracks and get them in order, and even have gone so far as to ensure that the skiers themselves do not come there for free to ski, so that they get the money. It is a good thing that clubs get income from it because they do the job, but they do have to think about these places of exercise, the sacrifice that is made — for example, skiing is a good hobby for middle-aged and older people — and how much social good it is to achieve precisely because the health and the health of skiing is away from our health care costs. The issue of funding raised by Mrs Wallinheim was quite timely. After following the results of the bet, they have decreased. We'll have to think about it in the future if it doesn't. So much money is being produced by the bet, how people are encouraged and sports facilities are being produced and built in such a way that they are attractive and people go there to train and take care of their own condition, thus promoting their own health and encouraging others to come. That is the most important thing: when that one goes, others will follow and they will inspire people to exercise, and in that way they will bring public health forward and improve people's well-being and well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u126	Mr President! The debate is moving on to Veikkaus, and it is an important topic for discussion. I'm sure it's worth asking yourself what the role of the future bet is. For myself, I would see that the role of the bet and the enthusiasm for playing, if you want to say so, could be raised, for example, by allowing the player to decide where the money he is playing goes, whether it goes to sports, culture or health care. With current digital technology, this would probably be quite possible if the player wanted to decide that OK, I press the button where the money goes to sports. I know that this is probably not the way to agree, but it is my view that since Veikkaus has been established in time to bet on sport, the proceeds of the bet will be used for sport and the well-being of young people. Personally, I would be prepared to have this kind of conversation among others here in the hall, and at least for myself strong support would then be for the sport: the player decides where the game's profits go, and what does not get his own profit, they will be distributed to youth sports.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u127	Mr President! The debate on the lottery law and its reforms took place in Parliament, and the scenarios for the future will be considered in particular around and around Veikkaus. I agree that we will probably have to transfer some of the contributions to the budget in the future. But now, in fact, we have only discussed sports and sports, and when the debate is about Veikkaus, we must remember that today's new Veikkaus is also an old RAY and is also a major contributor to that side and then, as a part of it, the funding of horse racing and horse economy comes from there today. Now that this big picture is being shaken, it is a place for a bigger debate, and even a place for a debate where such a kind of reflection as Mrs Wallinheim thought would take place, ‘for a long time’. Regrettably, at the moment, we have regulation and control, particularly with regard to our own gaming company. At the same time in the digital world, on the Internet, we no longer have a monopoly on gambling. Quite a large number of new players play in full or in part on the Internet. Why is this happening there — one reason is that there are better returns rates. They don't allow them for our gaming company. I believe it is, Mr. Pakkanen, a bigger attraction for many players that will come back 85 percent or 95 percent of what is being played. Or when the hockey man Wallinheimo plays the JYP game — no longer in the finish line, but now you have to play the bet — our own bet will be able to offer him only a few items and, at the same time, the international gaming company may offer that same JYP game up to 100 different playable items. In this world, our gaming company is currently operating, and it is being challenged both inside and outside. That is why we need to think seriously about how to secure future funding for sport and physical activity, but also for the organisation, the social and health sector. That's not a very small thing, by the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u128	Mr President! This role of Veikkaus in funding sports and sports in the future: However, it can be seen that physical activity is the only sector of society whose funding is almost entirely based on betting profit, and it can be seen — no matter what the future development of betting and gambling — that we do need to transfer more funding for sport and sport gradually to general budget resources. Of course, if that development were to be started earlier, then these released resources could be used for other purposes. Of course, there would be a lot of need for use there and there will be more and more expenditure, but we should see how physical activity can also be funded through all social actors, schools and, for example, schools. The Defence Forces, or any other publicly funded body that promotes physical activity on its own, will be financed through the budget for the development of physical activity in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u129	Mr President! To continue with that financing pattern for the Veik period: They used to wish the money was earmarked. Well, in my opinion, this own proposal would just be earmarkable in such a way that if you play a horse game, you can decide that my money will go to a horse game/horse sport, if you play a fruit game, then you will go to social and health work, and if you play a game, then you will go to sports. So it would be just so that the player would be able to decide where a possible win would go, or that what does not come into his own pocket would then go for a good purpose, and the player himself would be able to solve it, and not so much that, inspired by that great victory, he would go to play, but would play so that any loss would not be such a bad idea, because even the loss goes for a good cause and it is a small loss. Earlier in the day, there was talk of paying car tax. I'm sure everyone would be happy to pay a fuel tax if that money went to traffic and road maintenance. Why not also go to the point where they choose to play?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u130	Mr President! When I followed this debate in the study, Mr Heino must be thanked at the outset that you also raised important issues, not just the movement of people, but the importance of physical activity in Finland as a whole. I must say to Mr Pakkanen that your thoughts are not foreign to the current practices. We certainly know that, from our own experience, we currently have such an opportunity to return the bottles. The shops have sports club-specific receipts return boxes, and the person can allocate his own money from the bottle-return deposit system to the sports club to whom he wishes. At least this is what we do in Näkkila, where every sports club has its own so-called box, where you can donate the money you receive from the Finnish deposit system, which is the most efficient and the best in the world at the moment, and that is what happens. But that does not remove the fact that we are at risk of what is happening with regard to our monopoly. We can certainly still defend this in Europe by being guided on a social basis, but it is not enough, as Mrs Wallinheimo said, that digitalisation and the behaviour of people, perhaps providing greater profits, will mean that we can develop: My guess is, after this good reform, that our gambling returns are steady. If the winnings of gambling are reduced, it could be positive in that we have less gambling addiction, but this is hardly going to happen. Then we will have to take this very seriously, how we will ensure that we can close ourselves here in our own bubble, or do we recognise the fact that there is no return from this now, that a Finnish online player can play wherever he wants at the moment. In that sense, we legislators must somehow ensure that this funding for sport will be stronger in the future. Perhaps we should then develop our own system so that sports gaming in Finland is at the local level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u131	Mr President! Today has been a historic day. For the first time in Parliament, we have dealt with the report on sport and sports policy. A big thank you for this, Mr. Sampo Terho. In this light, too, his ministerial term will remain in history. I hope that this debate will not remain a mere talk, but will also become exercise itself. A lot of good ideas, good ideas, good insights about how to get more exercise in this country, more sports, more functionality. It is needed both in schools, in day-care centres, in everyday life and also in top-notch sports, at every level. It's been a great conversation, and it's been great to be part of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u132	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u133	Mr President! The government is therefore proposing to amend the police law to include provisions that would give the police more comprehensive powers to intervene in drones and unmanned aircraft. This intervention would only be possible if it is necessary to maintain public order and security, to prevent crime or to suspend a crime that has already been committed, to guard specific areas of surveillance, to safeguard the police mission or a significant state event, or to protect the privacy of the person concerned at the scene of the accident. For example, the use of cameras in accident sites has unfortunately led to situations both in the world and in Finland that threaten the privacy of victims and also the rapid functioning of security authorities in the context of such a situation. Here, too, I would like to take advantage of the possibility that, together, Parliament could also appeal to the public to ensure that security authorities and rescuers in the event of accidents are protected and that this type of imaging activity in the privacy border countries of victims would not become more common in Finland. How, then, could the police interfere with the drones? This bill would allow the use of a technical device which, however, does not cause any minor harm to other radio communications or communication networks of the public. Such equipment should only be used for as long as it is necessary to perform the operation and may therefore be a device that either forces the drone to land or takes control of the flight equipment. The technical device could only be used by an appropriately trained police officer. Where necessary, the necessary force could also be used, which could be considered to be justified in relation to the necessary need. A police officer would have the right to handle radio communications, brokerage information, location data related to the operation of a drone or unmanned aircraft, to interfere with the operation of the drone and the unmanned aircraft or to identify its system and to determine its location. We are in a situation where the use of drones and unmanned aircraft has increased rapidly and extensively and has become more efficient both in terms of carrier distances and, in particular, in terms of imaging systems. They represent a new and greater security threat to which the police are primarily responsible. I would, of course, like to stress that the new technology itself is also an important opportunity which, in fact, in the last week, has been able, for example, to reach the target and several times this year to find the stray from the terrain. But when misused, they really pose a threat to which the police need to intervene. At the moment, there is no mandate in the Police Act to intervene in the conduct of drones or unmanned aircraft, and that is why the government has decided to make a proposal. With regard to the impact of the proposal, the main aim is, of course, to improve our security, especially in the event of accidents, but also in order to prevent intentional harassment by criminals. It may be said that, in certain circumstances, security of special government targets may also be involved against these unmanned drones, and it will also talk about issues of national security. Mr President! I hope that we will also have a constructive debate on this draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u134	Madam President! This problem caused by drones in Finland, or, in fact, universally, is spreading, because small flying devices can, for example, describe the courtyard now, what is happening there, or at worst, even become harassment-leading activities, where the person’s home circle is constantly viewed from above. Consider, for example, a situation where someone goes with a camera into another yard to photograph people living in that house: It is certainly criminal activity, it must not be done, it is prohibited by the current law. But when you own this kind of flying little device with an accurate camera, then you can at worst do even such a job that you put a live picture to come, and then it's even if you take YouTube directly to see what happens in the family backyard where your children are playing and your parents spend a day off, or when you're at the summer cottage on the lakeside. Thank you to the Minister for his active contribution to this issue. But now I would very much like to see a much, much more radical, clearer boundaries and responsibilities for this is a clear violation of privacy, to go to the yard to describe these devices. Well, that'll work out very well. Today’s cameras are so accurate that they are able to get top-level images with very primitive flight equipment. That is why, Minister, I would like an answer: is there any answer to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u135	Madam President! We in the Committee on Defence have dealt with similar legislation with regard to the Defence Forces. It is therefore intended to achieve exactly the same result as in this bill presented by the Minister for the Interior, Kai Mykkänen, in which the police should now be given the right to intervene in drones, drones and the like by taking them in or down by driving them in different situations. The Minister brought up the situation of the accident. I'm sure there could be some surprises in the demonstrations. Of course, it must be remembered that these temporary flight bans are often imposed, for example, in situations such as those when Trump and Putin met in Finland, there were, of course, larger areas already restricted. However, it is precisely these somewhat surprising situations, to which the Minister also referred, that can be addressed by the police. On the military side, the problem has been precisely espionage, and even there, in situations such as exercises, drones, drones, and so forth, have been disrupting these exercises. They may cause such an acute disturbance for aircraft and others, of course, but also purely espionage. And our technology is moving forward fast, in fact, it is possible today to carry out airspace violations and espionage in such a way that the person who does the espionage is somewhere on the other side of the globe and may be flying the plane across the border. Of course, we already have these areas where machines can be taken down, that is, there will be more and more drone areas, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u136	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. I must say that when technology develops, technology changes, new devices and behaviours become good and not so good, then of course legislation must follow its time and change with it. The background is the maintenance of public order, public security, the prevention of crime and the suspension of crimes that are already taking place. One thing that has come up is this kind of air traffic jamming. Different laser lights have been used, it turns out that near airports are flown against orders and instructions from drones. I understand that this bill gives us the capacity, the ability to act with the police to address this type of disorder more rigorously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u137	Mr President! Indeed, developments are developing, and when new practices or devices are introduced that do something different, problems and challenges will inevitably arise that will then need to be resolved. It is a good thing that we are dealing with these problems now, but I am asking here: there is no accident, however, that there is any obstacle to the development of a food bag with drone or that in emergency situations the 112 call is located and if there is a recovery situation there is an automatic defibrillator, which can take control of the situation, or that there is a new form of postal activity? They've already been tried. The question really is: let us not accidentally make any obstacle to this development, shall we?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u138	Madam President! This bill has been expected, and I do not think that there will be much disagreement between the opposition and the government, unlike perhaps many other proposals. This is really something to be supported. Indeed, these drones have become very popular in recent years, and it is precisely the fact that they can be used for criminal activities. Drugs, drugs and, in the worst case, weapons can be transported to prisons. Now, of course, it is important that we have the opportunity to disturb those drones, even if locally over prisons or power stations, that they do not enter the area. On the other hand, of course, it is important to use force from the police to prevent them when it is dangerous to people and it can be said that they are intended for criminal activity. Indeed, it has not at present been possible to intervene if, for example, the device is equipped with a imaging device and is intended to be used for illegal intelligence or espionage. Of course, it seems inconceivable, but we often have a few laws behind us, and this is a welcome bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u139	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this bill. In fact, I would like to insist on Mr Hoskosen's idea that the violation of privacy by drones is particularly easy, and that has happened. I would recall that somewhere above the summer cottage the owner had apparently knocked down one drone with a shotgun, which was obviously not a legal means of preventing drone from working, and as I recall, he received a small sentence for it. Well, these drones can be described in privacy areas, such as homes or cottages, and after all, in this Speaker's Square, drone had been moving around the Parliament according to observations. I'm going to ask the Minister: What kind of possibilities is there in practice to find out or catch in such cases a violation of the rules, such as a flight ban violationer or a privacy breacher, this flyer who flies drone for criminal purposes? How easy is it to figure this out? Is it the only way to prevent drone action by disrupting its movements, or do we really have the means to catch the flyer?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u140	Minister Mykkänen, reply for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u141	Mr President! Thank you for your constructive questions and also for your encouragement to the government to move this issue forward. It seems that there is a great deal of agreement between all the speakers on this need for a change of law. As such, this bill of law gives the police the right to intervene in clear situations of public order and security, or in the event of an accident or of an investigation by the police in order to fly these drones and, if necessary, to take over such a drone. It has to be said that this does not in itself give the property owner the right to drop the drone in comparison to the current situation, where, as Mrs Hokkonen said here, breaking home peace is also prohibited through the drone camera. The question of criminality, criminal liability and the lowering of the thresholds for investigations in cases of this kind is, of course, a broader issue, mainly related to criminal law, in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, but it is certainly the case that if this type of secrecy, the violation of privacy by drones, is generalized, not only that we must be able to intervene if the situation continues for so long as the police continue to come into the situation, that is to say, that this law will allow us to intervene, it must also be possible to ensure that, through criminal liability, justice is achieved and also in a preventive sense, so that the responsibility is sufficiently clear so that repeated behaviour in this respect does not become more widespread. Representatives of Hänninen and Turunen in particular were also involved in this. Mr Kiuru intervened in the use of laser lights, particularly for airports. Of course, if there is a disturbance in public order and security, for example by interfering with an airport or similar object, such as laser lights, from such an unmanned drone, then the police may then intervene, if proportionate and necessary, by taking possession of the drone. At the same time, I also think that Mr Jalonen has intervened in an absolutely essential matter, which I myself mentioned at the outset, that although this law does, of course, address the threats posed by drones, it is in itself a new instrument for us citizens to ensure security, search and arrest, but also in new forms of transport services and, for example, to bring them closer to rescue devices. Of course, there is no ban on drones flying, nor on transport services, and it is imperative that this market is able to develop into it. It is only positive if the services can be brought close by drones.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u142	Madam President! In this way, in the presence of the Minister, I would like to clarify the question. If you take the example of having a family party going to some lakeside and there are a lot of people gathered together and a good atmosphere, a summer day, and suddenly someone marches there with a video camera on your shoulder and pictures that situation without asking permission from the host or owner, it is certainly an invasion of privacy and has also been invaded without permission. But if the same guy buys himself a drone from that well-equipped hardware store and puts a good camera in it to get top-notch pictures and fly them over and over and over, then I think we should have precise legislation in this country that privacy and home peace should also apply to these flying objects. I myself have already noticed a few occasions, including last summer, when such flying devices were filming. I don't know what they pictured and who owned the equipment, who controlled it, but it just forced me to think that wherever that information goes. Yes, I believe that the Finnish Parliament must bear a strong responsibility here, and I hope that the Minister will take this situation very seriously — and I believe he will take it very seriously. This needs to be addressed, to bring legislation to the level that privacy and home peace are still intact, because it is certainly not today that a video camera on the shoulder can march even to a family party to describe the situation. With Drone's help it works, it doesn't need anything, and afterwards, finding out who it was is almost impossible once the guy's gone. And as has been said in this one speech, its drone user may be 500 kilometres away from remote control of this device. That is why we must have strict, strict legislation and, above all, sanctions and responsibility for not doing this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u143	Madam President! The above speeches are exactly the greetings that should come, and it is necessary to raise the question here of the legislative initiative taken by Mr Raatikainen, which was the subject of a debate on secrecy. This is well suited to the connection that there is now a possibility that we really must be rigid in the way in which we apply the cloaking clause in the penal code when, for the purposes of illustration, a device is installed or intruded into the privacy of the home, as Mr Hoskonen described above. In my opinion, the right to privacy and home peace must also be intact with regard to the description or video recording of drones.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u144	Madam President! Perhaps a follow-up question has to be asked here about the good speeches made by the honourable Members, that is to say, this is precisely the question of how it is to be punished. Of course this would go to the Ministry of Justice, but it is very important that even trying would be punishable in order to then eliminate this kind of activity and responsibility would be borne for such possible acts. If it does not result in any fines, no conditional imprisonment or imprisonment, then it can easily be the case that, well, let's try that even if it does, then the consequences are very little. I am sure that Mr Hoskonen also pointed out that it is wonderful that Mr Raatikainen has taken such a bill, but what about these cases, to which this bill now refers, that is, if the situation is such that an unmanned aircraft is equipped with imaging equipment and is intended to be used for illegal intelligence or espionage? Is this act punishable at the moment, and if not, will it then become punishable?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u145	Then the Minister's reply. Is that enough for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u146	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I am sure that important speeches will be made, and I will send a message to the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice that, from the point of view of privacy, criminal liability should be considered. It must be further stated here that this bill itself does not bring about a change on this side, but gives the police the authority to do so in those limited cases where there is a greater risk of accidents or a greater danger to society from the operation of the drone, then the drone will also be taken over. But surely it is also necessary to ensure that, as several representatives here have proved, it is natural that the violation of privacy by physical representation on the surface of the earth is now firmly reprehensible and that practices work, but in such cases, which are now increasingly described by air, it is certainly difficult in itself and then case law still remains to be established, and it must be ensured that the law gives the clearest possible message that this is not even worth trying to do and that the police will then have a clear chance to take things forward from criminal reports if it is achieved. Let us see, it may then of course require the possibility of interfering with this flying by technical means too, and it must then consider the various rights. But I'm taking the message forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u147	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u148	Mr President! The Government proposes to introduce a new Personal Data Act for the Immigration Administration. This law would bring together the regulation on the processing of personal data from legislation in the field of immigration administration. The new law would therefore replace the 20-year-old Alien Register Act, and this government proposal will also be accompanied by proposals to amend the Act on Reception, the Act on Containment, the Act on Integration and certain other laws. The processing of personal data in the immigration administration would be governed by a single law that meets the requirements of the modern Personal Data Act, which complements the European Union Data Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Act and the Criminal Data Protection Act. The Personal Data Act should also be interpreted in conjunction with other legislation creating powers. The framework for the regulation of personal data would consist of this entity together. The Personal Data Act would apply not only to the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service, reception centres and detention units, but also when the police, Border Guard, Foreign Service, Ely Centres or TE Centres process personal data in the role of the immigration authority. The aim of the proposal is to clarify the regulation on the processing of personal data, both from the point of view of the law-maker and the protection of the rights of the data subject. The objective is a more risk-based approach, i.e. better targeting of regulatory situations, e.g. personal data belonging to specific categories of personal data separately, and, on the other hand, deregulation in situations where detailed regulation is not necessary. In contrast to the current situation, the scope of the law would be end-use-related rather than registration-related. It would therefore not be tied to certain registers, to the authorities that use them, to information systems, but to modern regulatory technologies that rely heavily on legislation that creates competences and do not repeat the matters laid down there in the Personal Data Act. These changes would enable, above all, new modern operating methods, such as automated decision-making in the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service. An automatic decision-making mechanism could be applied if the nature or extent of the case, equal treatment, the best interests of the child or any other particular reason does not require otherwise. It is also proposed to give up the double regulation of the movement of information. It would now only provide for the right of access to information for the authority at one time. The objective is also the partial introduction of an obligation management report on personal data, which would allow a wider automatic transfer of information, especially from the Tax Administration's systems, in connection with the issue of residence permits. The adoption of the Personal Data Act applicable to the administration of immigration is necessary because the Alien Register Act proposed for repeal is obsolete in many places and, on the other hand, the regulation on the processing of personal data is fragmented across the legislation. In addition, the EU's data protection reform will bring changes to national specific legislation. The aim of the proposed law is to ensure that the requirement under Article 10 of the Constitution to provide for the protection of personal data by law is properly fulfilled throughout the immigration administration. The proposal has implications for both regulatory technology and rules on the processing of personal data. The proposal does not in itself alter the criteria and conditions for granting authorisations. The proposal would clarify the processing of personal data from the point of view of both the law-maker and the protection of the rights of the data subject. The proposal would focus the regulation on the processing of personal data in immigration management on a law that meets the requirements of the modern Personal Data Act. To draw together one might say that the change will enable, in particular, the creation and introduction of automated decision-making in immigration management, which is very important if we want to develop a system of permits for the entry of experts and authors into Finland in order to ensure that the queue is not counted in months but rather counted in days. At the beginning of next year, it is planned to pilot, in particular with regard to the student’s residence permit, that the information system will automatically collect the necessary information, and the decision will be prepared automatically, and the person only checks it. In the future, it could also be that positive decisions are taken automatically and the checks are then carried out on a blame-based and risk-based basis, as has been done for a long time in the Tax Administration, for example. In addition, the authorisation bureaucracy of foreign labour is reduced as the Finnish Immigration Service could in future receive information from other authorities in a centralised manner through a single request, which is also a very important challenge at the moment, when the data are shared between the Finnish Employment Service, the Finnish Immigration Service and the Finnish Immigration Service and, for example, employers' tax information and employer background information need to be reported to different authorities on several occasions. This hopefully leads us to ask the same information about the authority in Finland only once and then the information moves between the authorities. This proposal does not yet bring it alone, but this leads to a step forward in terms of personal data when it comes to the applicant for a residence permit or, in particular, its successor, who already has personal data traces in different systems in Finland. Indeed, the new law would also take the first step towards the introduction of a report on the management of obligations in the Finnish Immigration Service. This report on the management of obligations is therefore a service of the Tax Administration, which shows whether the employer has fulfilled its obligations, such as taxes and statutory insurance premiums. This information can be used for the processing of employee residence permits and the employer does not need to provide the same information to more than one authority, and steps can be taken towards a clearly more control-oriented system of residence permits, which can also be effectively tackled after the issue of a residence permit. I believe that it is in the common interest of all of us that there is no two-storey market in Finland or illegal labour exploitation. Mr President! I hope there will also be a constructive debate on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u149	Mr President! I think it is a good idea to start by saying that it makes sense to think about our legislation from the point of view of how we can make sense to deal with these different licence applications and also the kind of information that is collected and how that information will then be available to the various authorities. In this respect, it is a good thing that these proposals are also being brought here, with which we are really trying to make these readings more sensible. Perhaps the only point I have to make is that the Parliamentary Ombudsman gave a rather critical opinion on this proposal as to whether it could be that some of the information collected here would remain open in such a way that their availability might perhaps be a little more extensive than would be desirable. In this regard, it is probably reasonable that, in committee, this should then be crammed through and that it should be ensured that people's information does not end up in the hands that do not need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u150	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u151	Madam President! The Government's proposal for a law amending the Unemployment Security Act to improve the unemployment security of so-called non-owned family members of entrepreneurs is now being discussed. Entrepreneurs, their family members and business associations have long highlighted how the unemployment benefit of the family member who is employed in the company of the family will be created. The right of a family member to unemployment benefit has been settled in the same way as in the case of an entrepreneur, even if the family member does not own shares in the company and has no voting rights or equivalent control. Such a non-ownership family member has been an entrepreneur in the unemployment benefit system, despite the fact that, for example, in the pension scheme, he may have been an employee. The above has caused concern in entrepreneurship families. When a person is an entrepreneur in the unemployment benefit system, the end of his or her employment is assessed differently from that of an employee. The debate has, of course, sometimes also been faced with extremes, such as the claims that the creation of the right to unemployment benefit would require the family company to be completely shut down. However, this is too strict an interpretation of the matter. The family member of the entrepreneur is entitled to unemployment benefit in the same situations as the owner. In addition, in his case, the right to unemployment benefit may also arise in situations where the owner would not receive unemployment benefit. An example of such a less favourable condition is that the restructuring of business and the permanent deterioration in the conditions for business activities may be factors that enable the family member of an entrepreneur who has worked in a family business to receive unemployment benefit. We are talking about lay-offs and lay-offs on productive and economic grounds. The labour market conditions must be met in order to be able to pay unemployment benefit. However, on the basis of a public debate, it is concluded that family businesses do not recognise situations and criteria in which the non-owner family member can receive earnings-related daily allowance. The assessment of labour market policy is not the only factor that has an impact on unemployment protection law. In order to qualify for earnings-based unemployment benefit, the person must be part of the right unemployment fund in business on the basis of employment or employment in paid employment. The second provision that has created problems is that the family member must be part of a convincing unemployment fund for the entrepreneur, so that, in the event of unemployment, the daily allowance is earnings-based and based on the salary received from working in the family company. It turns out that incorrect insurance, i.e. membership of the wage-earner's insurance fund, is taking place. When we talk about being insured under the so-called wrong unemployment fund, we talk about a situation in which a person has expressed a desire to insure himself against unemployment in a earnings-based benefit system. If there is a mistake in insurance, this will will will not happen even if the labour market policy conditions for receiving unemployment benefit are fulfilled. In these situations, a person may be entitled to basic daily allowance or labour market support, but it may well be asked whether this compensation is adequate when he or she wishes to convince himself of his or her earnings. On the other hand, the lack of recognition of labour market policy criteria for starting unemployment is also a problem. The discussions highlight situations in which a family company can no longer employ a non-owned family member but the labour market conditions are still not met. Mr President! The purpose of the unemployment benefit scheme is to provide financial security when employment ends or becomes partial, by-product of business operations. The aim of the proposal is to improve the entitlement of the non-owner family member working in the company to unemployment benefit in general and to earnings-related daily allowance at the same time. To this end, it is proposed that the status of non-owners in a company under the unemployment benefit scheme should be changed to an employee. The proposal applies to all forms of enterprise, not only limited companies. It applies to persons to whom the family business can pay wages and who are covered by the employee's pension insurance. The starting point for the change is simple: to change the definition of an entrepreneur in the Unemployment Security Act so that, on the basis of the Unemployment Security Act, it would always require personal ownership of the share capital, the number of votes he has brought, or similar control. On the basis of this change, a person without ownership or control would then be an employee. The result of the change is that the person must be a member of a convincing unemployment fund so that working in the family company can accumulate the right to earnings-based unemployment allowance. The right to unemployment benefit would mainly be resolved as well as what is now defined as an employee. There is one exception to this with regard to the condition of employment. The condition of working for the non-owner family member would be 52 calendar weeks with the presentation, while employees now have 26 calendar weeks. The condition of employment must be accumulated during a period when the person does not hold a holding in the company. This is based on the fact that, according to the definition, it is not an employee's work if the person has ownership. The work of a non-owners' family member in 52 calendar weeks and of employees in 26 calendar weeks cannot be combined. However, the condition of working is reduced compared to the current situation, and the conditions of employment based on employment or employment as an entrepreneur in the family can not be combined today. The situation of the non-owner family member of the entrepreneur therefore does not deteriorate in any way with the presentation. The aim of the amendment is that working in a family company would be as neutral as possible for the non-ownering family member in relation to working in an external service. This will reduce the financial risks associated with employment and unemployment while working in the family business. Employment in a family business should be an opportunity, not a risk, for a non-ownered family member.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u152	Mr President! Now we have to start with thank you: Thank you to the government for this government proposal, which corrects the unfair practice of interpreting the family members of an entrepreneur as shareholders, even if in practice they do not own anything of the company. We should be grateful for the fact that in future the family members of the entrepreneur will no longer be unduly excluded from unemployment benefit and employment measures. So now the government will correct these shortcomings. Thank you for that! If you apply correctly for a small minus, it is this condition of working that you cannot combine work done as an entrepreneur and work done as an employee in a company. It is 52 weeks for family members and other employees of the entrepreneur 26 weeks. But it's so small a minus that it doesn't matter if you can't give a big thank-you. Mr President! I took the initiative in February of this year to amend Chapter 1, Section 6(2) of the Unemployment Protection Act, to remove the words ‘ordinary members’. For the sake of clarity and equal treatment and fairness of citizens, it is important to remove from the definition of an entrepreneur those family members who do not own anything from the company itself. It has therefore been necessary to remove from the list of participants in Section 6 of Chapter 1 the words ‘ordinary members’ in all paragraphs, in which case it would be necessary to consider as self-owners or self-members of the family as a condition that they also own something —that is to say, their own. The government's proposal before us is the same as the bill I made almost a year ago, and in this context I cannot fail to tell you the names of the representatives who signed this bill at the time. They were representatives of Hautala, Koski, Sarkkinen, Östman, Myllykoski, Taavitsainen, Hassi, Karimäki and Mikkonen. Thank you! Thank you! [TimoHeinonenarvous] Mr President! The problem has therefore been that, in the application of the Unemployment Protection Act, a family member of an entrepreneur who works in a family company may have been regarded as a part-owner himself and thus an entrepreneur, even though he does not actually own or exercise control over the company. The employer’s spouse, cohabiting spouse and children, grandchildren, parents and grandparents living with him in the same household have been considered family members. The term ‘participant’ used may also mean a person who does not really own or exercise As a result, the person has not been entitled to unemployment benefit, like other employees. This has come as a surprise to many members of the entrepreneur’s family when unemployment benefit has been claimed. The government is therefore proposing changes to unemployment benefit to improve the unemployment security of a family member of an entrepreneur, and this is a good thing. Thus, in the future, a family member of an entrepreneur who does not own a share of the company but works there will be considered an employee in the Unemployment Benefits Act, the changes would apply to such family members of the entrepreneur. It is now proposed that a family member working in a company who does not own a share of the company and does not exercise control should in future be entitled to unemployment benefit as an employee, and this is significant, big thing that if you are actually an employee, you have unemployment benefit for an employee. This condition of employment would be 52 calendar weeks for a person defined as a non-owned family member, and this was the minor change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u153	Madam President! Mr Turunen has made such a good speech that I believe that I will be able to use the positive expression I would like to make in this bill in connection with this referral debate. In other words, thank you to the Minister for being here, first of all, to present you personally, because this is a very good step forward in the way in which we have allowed the state of law to take place in such a way that the employee has been in such a bad position when he is working in the company of his family as an employee. This is a good step. And thank you again, Mr Turuse, for bringing up those names. It was nice to listen to that list of names and to say that, at least, politics has not hindered this coherent view, in relation to Mr Turunen's legislative initiative, but it has perhaps been more of a question of understanding it, and there has been no political weight here, and that is why it is worthwhile to support this proposal. However, I would like to ask what the representative of Turunen said in his speech, about the small amount of reproach in terms of what this condition of working was. When I think about how we can come here under earnings-related social security, I have wondered that at some point, of course, one might think that someone is working, so to speak, and that only compulsory social contributions and pension contributions are paid for him, and then, depending on age, we are in this earnings-related unemployment benefit so that we can, in a way, buy ourselves a part of the earnings-related daily allowance, so to speak, with a few tonnes of what we have to say. So I ask the Minister: why? Have we considered the possibilities of abuse, or why is this limit to this condition of employment longer than in normal paid employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u154	Madam President! The position of an entrepreneur is not very delicious in situations where the company is in bad shape: let's spend the night wondering if the money is enough to pay the loan, pay the wages, pay the bills. The strength of the Finnish business field is that the family works in that company. Finnish business activities rely very much on small enterprises, enterprises with fewer than nine employees. Thus, when a wife is often in the family, children operate in the company without having ownership of the company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u157	Mr President! The Centre has long been pursuing this objective, which is now in the process of being realised in the Government's proposal. At present, a family member working in a company can be regarded as an entrepreneur in matters of unemployment security, even if he does not own or exercise control over the company. In practice, this results in a person’s right to unemployment benefit being different from that of an employee. The proposal now submitted by the Government to the Parliament proposes that such a person be an employee in the future, even when he or she is subject to the Unemployment Protection Act. The aim of the proposal is to improve the right of the non-owner family member working in the company to earnings-related daily allowance, thereby reducing the financial risks associated with employment and unemployment while working in the family business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u158	Mr President! This is a very welcome change in the law, which, in my view, corresponds to the Finnish sense of justice. It is welcome to improve the right of non-owners to unemployment benefit for a family member working in a company. The current situation is often unreasonable and leads to unreasonable situations when a person works in paid employment but is interpreted as an entrepreneur on the basis of a family relationship and reduces his unemployment security. This creates unreasonable situations for the individual, undermines his social security, but may also lead to people not necessarily wanting to work in the family business if it leads to less social protection, and this is not the way it should be. Mr President! This change may sound like a small detail in terms of unemployment security, but it still affects around 22,000 people, and it is a matter of great importance for the people to whom it is addressed. In general, efforts should be made to strengthen the social security of entrepreneurs. This is important when micro- and small-scale entrepreneurship increases in Finland and is strongly encouraged politically. Mr President! Contrary to what Mrs Torvinen said, the Left Alliance has sought to promote social security for entrepreneurs, both in the government and in the opposition. And as a reminder to the representative that the left-wing government was the last one 15 years ago, the Lipponen government — when the accusation came that no progress had been made in the case of left-wing governments. But it's not party politics. I would like to thank the Minister for a good proposal and I would like to express my thanks to Mr Turuse, who has pushed this issue forward in a long-term and cross-party way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u159	Mr President! There is a very good presentation here, and it is a pleasure to hear that this is being supported across party boundaries, from left to right. Of course, it may also be useful to point out – and it is a good thing that there have been initiatives to this effect and that this issue and this problem have already been raised in previous decades – that this issue has actually been resolved under a centre-led government. It was very important that now, under the leadership of the centre, this red tape problem was resolved in the budget debate, that this line was drawn up and that this solution can now be discussed in Parliament. A proposal for this has also been submitted to the Ministry in several years' working group on the removal of standards in the Central Parliamentary Group, and it is good that this is now progressing. I myself am drawing this task force. In fact, the problem has been precisely that it has not been fair for the spouse's profession to define unemployment benefit, and this situation in self-employed families may have led to the family's income trap or forced employment regardless of the sector. This has been a particular flaw. The current model has put the family members of the entrepreneur in a situation where they are not entrepreneurs but not employees in the true sense of the law. In this case, their legislative rights have not been theirs, for example, in the event of lay-off. There are also situations where unemployment benefit has been denied, even though a family-owned company has no longer been able to employ. This has not been equal between the various workers. The situation is now being corrected and this will at the same time remove obstacles to entrepreneurship and employment. It is also essential to note this target group. Mr Sarkkinen has already mentioned that around 22,000 would, in a way, be these people in the target group, but in fact the number is much wider. For example, at the time of the last election, there were more contacts from young families who thought that they would start a business, but they dare not, precisely because of this problem, then there will be a problem with unemployment security. Either we leave the company completely unestablished or we do not dare to work within the family, because the interpretation comes precisely with regard to the social security of the spouse. This has been an important factor in the fact that companies have also not been set up, and that is why this applies in fact to a much wider number of people in Finland. It is very good that this unnecessary standard is now being dismantled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u160	Madam President! Although many things have been good in Finland over the last decade and have gone for the better, unfortunately, we have also been able to make special legislation here, and here is an example. After all, it is an unusual situation that a person who does not own and has no control over a company is considered to be an entrepreneur — very special in the sense of common sense. However, such a situation has been — it is good that it is finally being addressed. There have been various points raised here which, in their view or in the opinion of anyone else, have contributed to this — surely we all together, I dare say, and here is where Mr Mattila, the Blue Minister, will of course bring the proposal. Perhaps this time the conservative government will have the support of the left, with this good proposal, and that is good to hear. In this regard, Mrs Torvinen pointed out the fact that a large number of companies in Finland are indeed family businesses, and this legislation now applies specifically to them. Mr Jarva also pointed out the important aspect of the fact that many business activities are actually not started because the situation has been as special as it has been so far. This is indeed the case for 22,000 people, but on these grounds one might suspect that the crowd is much wider. Now, entrepreneurs must, when it comes into force, see, then move on to a real unemployment fund and then start to accumulate the right to a earnings-based unemployment allowance. The Blues have also suggested that, in addition to this change, it would be appropriate to move on to the fact that all employees would have earnings-related unemployment benefit regardless of membership of the federation. I also hope that our good left will support this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u161	Madam President! A big thank you to Minister Mattila for a good performance. Of course, this performance can also be called Lex Turuse. In his legislative initiative, this issue was launched and, as he pointed out, the proposal was immediately supported beyond government and opposition boundaries. It is nice to be supportive of this type of entrepreneurship from every party. Thus, unemployment security for non-owned family members of entrepreneurs will be equivalent to that of employees. The proposal is part of the entrepreneurial-friendly policy of the current government, and it is important that social security is now reformed to recognise the entrepreneur and thus entrepreneurship. The spouses of entrepreneurs now have access to the unemployment benefit of employees, and, as the Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo at the main festival of Entrepreneurs said, then dare to fall in love with the entrepreneur again. In the future, therefore, it is a condition that the family member is also the owner of the company itself. This has been mentioned above, Mr Elo, among other things, the fact that, in part, this matter now being corrected has prevented the start of new entrepreneurship and business, but in fact this has also been a problem and a challenge. In some cases, before this reform, the unemployment of a family member has also jeopardised the survival of the entire business, when the family’s livelihood has been threatened since then. It makes sense to carry out such reforms, which specifically help small businesses and target them. That's where the jobs come from.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u162	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. I must say that it is a pity that this is not being televised, because there is rarely such a unanimous sitting in progress and there is unanimity in the procedure as this bill is, and that is a pity to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u165	Mr President! I'm starting to get a little confused so there won't be a follow-up session. First of all, thank the Minister for the fact that this government proposal is in this form and that this correction was not started with some kind of information add-on or other kind of information, that is to say by adding information to the family members of entrepreneurs about which unemployment fund should be insured, but because this situation is so unclear in current legislation, it is better to do this kind of clear government proposal to correct it. That's what I want to thank you for. To the extent that I would intervene in this debate, this government proposal is, in that sense, beyond the party boundaries, as has been shown in this debate that all those present have been able to support this, and yes, the opposition representatives have equally contributed to this proposal because I am sure that, if it were asked otherwise, no one would be able to oppose it, on the right, acceptable grounds. When Mr Hänninen said that he would probably have signed this if it had been possible, I would have done so many times with these legislative initiatives, at least myself, in a way that is only for a certain period of time and not very actively seeking the signatories, one e-mail will be enough, and then the most active ones will have time to participate. When we know that we receive a lot of e-mails, then we can go by, but, as was clear from your speeches, you are also in favour of this. Mr Heinonen, as a modest representative, could say that Mr Heinonen's proposal was very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u166	Mr President! I would also like to thank Minister Mattila and, of course, the entire government for this positive bill. Since it has been discussed that this is now targeting 22,000, the Government’s proposal states that ‘the assessment is based onthe unemployment insurance fund’s statistics onthe number ofcompanies paid bypart-owners as well as the notified share-owners’ salary,butinextensive terms. This change will therefore improve the financial position of non-owners' family members, even in the event of unemployment. It would also be easier for a non-owner family member to start working in a family company, as employment would now be assessed as part-time work for employees or as full-time short-term work. So this is a positive one, and hopefully such positive unanimous government proposals will come from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u167	Mr President! It is true that, when it is a place of thanks, it should be given quite honestly, and this is where the government can thank for this proposal and, of course, also Mr Turus, whose legislative initiative has now led to real progress in this matter, which will now lead to the fact that the daily lives of tens of thousands of people, at least in this respect, will get a little better, as this situation for the non-owners of family members becomes clearer. It is precisely as Mr Sarkkinen pointed out here that it is reasonable that, if you do not own anything from that company and you do not have the power to decide on the business of the company, then you cannot be counted as an entrepreneur either. And in this respect, it is quite clear that there must then be the opportunities that other employees have. This hopefully leads to an increasing number of family members also having the courage to leave in such a situation even if they set up a business, in which then another family member, who does not own anything, also dares to go to work and thereby also facilitate the growth of its business, and this will possibly lead to them being able to hire more labour, while we certainly have the objective that employment in this country will continue to improve. Then perhaps it is worth recalling that, during this consultation, perhaps a little bit was done about whether there could then be situations in which the risk of self-employment could be reduced to this unemployment insurance scheme. It is good to remember that this condition of working is, after all, twice as long as the average wage and salary earner: 52 weeks. In that regard, it will certainly help to ensure that perhaps such abuses do not occur very much. This is probably a good thing for us to go through at that committee stage again, so that no loopholes are left in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u168	Then the floor to Mr Kulmun, followed by the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u169	Madam President! It is nice, of course, to be dealing with such a government proposal, which gives rise to such broad support from all sides of the Chamber. The centre has also been active for quite a long time in matters relating to the social security of entrepreneurs. And as Mr Jarva has pointed out, throughout the parliamentary term, this group of red tape has gathered and thought about the smaller and larger details that could improve employment and social justice on the one hand, and it is great that this matter, since the summer's debate on the spending limits, has already moved here as a government proposal. It is, of course, true that this still does not fully solve the problem of the social security of entrepreneurs, but this is one very important issue that often comes up in those elections and, of course, also affects a very large number of people — when the estimates of the bill talk about more than 20,000 people. The situation has certainly been extremely disproportionate, and in that respect this change is very well-founded, but perhaps for the future, too, as a throw, that the work has by no means been completed. It is nice to hear that it is now underscored how important it is for small entrepreneurs to be on an equal footing with employees, but that is certainly not yet today, unfortunately, if you look at issues such as the formation of pensions or health insurance or the issue of social security as a whole. When the work is modernised and becomes a piece of work, there are fears about how we will have in the future the freelancers', sole entrepreneurs' pension matters handled and taken care of, and this is certainly the legislation that will be dealt with in this Chamber in the future. But thank you to the centre-led government that this proposal has now been introduced and that the social security of entrepreneurs for family members who do not own the company improves in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u170	And Minister Mattila, reply, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u171	Mr President! Thank you for the debate. Questions were mainly raised about this condition of employment in so far as why this decision has been reached. Well, first of all, the condition of employment will be reduced compared to the current situation. It is true that these different ways were considered and perhaps existed, but how simple it is that it is a good question. And like this representative Mr Räsänen also pointed out that the change could be regarded as significant and that it would probably be back in committee. All these practices have also been described in this government proposal, including on page 11 and thought about the transition to employee status. It has also been pointed out that when one group of persons is transferred from the definition of an entrepreneur to an employee and then it is possible to combine these different types of work, it could mean that a group of persons would have a combined insurance policy, and this has been the case. But, as I said, there is also a reduction in the condition of working, and in this respect the situation will be improved. No one's situation will be weakened, and neither will this... I'm sorry, but the fact that there are really good graphics here on the STM website and this clarifies the situation to which we are moving. That's about what it looks like. [ Talker shows graphics]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u172	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u173	Madam President! Emissions trading is an integral part of EU climate policy. It is actually the most important common tool. Emissions trading regulates emissions from energy production and industry, and emissions trading covers about 40% of CO2 emissions from the whole EU. Therefore, the reform of the Emissions Trading Directive was an essential part of the EU 2030 climate package to implement the commitments made by the European Union under the Paris Agreement to mitigate climate change. The law now under discussion is then a Finnish legislative proposal, a government proposal on how the Emissions Trading Directive will be implemented in Finland. So far we have to return to the issue of the directive in the EU, that when the directive was to be reformed and this emissions trading will implement a total emission reduction of 43% by 2030 for this sector, Finland had two objectives in this work: on the one hand, that emissions trading should be reformed in such a way that rights are sufficiently limited to allow the price of emission allowances to increase and genuinely direct operators towards low-emission technologies and renewable energy production; on the other hand, that the free allocation of allowances under the emissions trading scheme should be organised in such a way that the key sectors of energy-intensive industries in Finland will be able to benefit from the free allocation in order to avoid such competitive disadvantage in relation to other parts of the world. Both these objectives were well achieved. Emissions trading is ambitious, but at the same time the position of energy-intensive industries is safeguarded. The current draft law specifically defines the procedure for applying for free allocation of allowances, which is transferred from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to the Energy Agency, while at the same time reducing the implementation of the emissions monitoring plan for emissions trading, is simplified in such a way as to make it easier for operators to verify. There are two interesting points in this proposal which have given rise to some debate. The second is the possibility that the draft law empowers the Government to decide on the cancellation of allowances, on the use of allowances to cover the reduction targets for the so-called burden-sharing sector outside the emissions trading. This is difficult, but I am trying to open up: Outside emissions trading, each country has a specific emission reduction target — Finland's target of 39% — and as part of this 2030 climate package, the possibility was created that if a Member State, including Finland, wants to cancel allowances on the emissions trading side in the name of cost-effectiveness, it can be counted as an emission reduction there outside the emissions trading. This is what has been planned in Finland because the emission reduction will be achieved at lower costs by using this one-off mechanism. Another issue that has given rise to some debate is the possibility of cancelling emission allowances in emissions trading if, for example, coal-fired power stations are closed prematurely in accordance with the government's planned ban on the use of coal. In other words, with regard to the coal-fired power plants involved in emissions trading, there has been a concern that emissions reductions will actually take place or that those liberalised rights will be transferred to other markets, and this legislation now allows us to eliminate a corresponding amount of CO2 emissions from the emissions trading sector, which means that the closure of coal-fired power stations will not only physically stop those CO2 emissions but will also, in turn, eliminate allowances from the emissions trading market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u174	Mr President! EU emissions trading has not worked as well as expected in past years. There have been too many allowances and prices have been very low. Fortunately, recently prices have risen and thus the steering effect of emissions trading is also better. It encourages the transfer of investment, money flows to low-emission technologies. A new market stability reserve will soon be introduced, and it will hopefully reduce additional allowances from the market and thus improve the steering effect of emissions trading. However, the operation of the market stability reserve is not yet fully assured, so the possibility of cancelling allowances needs to be supported, which is what is coming with this bill. This will ensure that the ban on coal and other possible national emission reduction measures actually reduce emissions as a whole, at EU level. It is essential for emission reductions and also from the point of view of the incentive effect. Hopefully, then, Finland will also use this possibility of cancellation in a strategically wise and timely manner, thereby also tightening emission reductions across the EU. On the other hand, some reservations can be expressed about the flexibility in the draft law between emissions trading and the burden-sharing sector, at least if there are too many allowances on the move, as has been the case now. The situation with climate change is now such that everything that can be done must be done in all sectors and not sought to go from where the fence is lowest, so I hope that flexibility will be used with caution. Mr President! The draft law now also implements national provisions on the free allocation of allowances during the future trading period. Free distribution continues to be relatively generous, and this is based on the risk of carbon leakage. To date, many companies have even made money with these free allocation allowances. When they have been distributed so generously and have not needed them themselves, they have then been sold free of charge. However, this cannot be considered as a fair or wise action in terms of emissions, so I hope that this new free allocation will be better measured and more encouraging. I personally see that companies and industries in the free distribution sector should also be encouraged to cut emissions more strongly, especially as we are now living in a time when we have received IPCC worm figures from the catastrophic rapidly evolving trend of climate change and its very harmful effects. It may also be that this whole free allocation pattern will be re-examined at EU level. In this free allocation logic, the potential risk of carbon leakage is combated by the fact that sectors and their companies identified as carbon leakage risk do not have to pay for their emissions, and thus it is thought that the conditions of competition will be evened out and that companies will not then, for reasons of competition, move to countries where there is no emissions trading. Personally, I see a better way of encouraging and balancing these competitive conditions, rather than taking the price off coal from the emissions of carbon leakage risk sectors, is to put a price on coal for the products of companies in these sectors that have been produced outside the EU, where the price for coal has not been home-made. So I do support the idea of these carbon tariffs at the EU's external borders. It could prevent this risk of carbon leakage and even out the competitive conditions of companies if coal is not priced everywhere, and really put the price on coal at home and at borders instead of balancing the conditions of competition so that coal is not priced in our own countries either because it is not priced anywhere else. So I would like to see this logic re-examined, perhaps at EU level, in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u175	Mr President! I have to say that these emissions trading issues are not quite clear to me, but I have taken a few things from this government proposal. The law will therefore implement nationally the amendments to the EU Emissions Trading Directive concerning the future trading period 2021 to 2030. The amendments relate in particular to the application procedure for free allocation of allowances, the transmission of the required data and the allocation of allowances. The Act would also implement national improvements, such as the transfer of regulatory tasks related to the allocation of allowances from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to the Energy Agency. Unlike the Ministry of Employment and the Economy today, the Energy Agency will in future charge a fee for dealing with the issue of free allocation. One post is to be transferred from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to the Energy Agency. The Act would also include a mandate to the Government to decide on the use of allowances in order to achieve the emission reduction target for the non-ETS sector. If flexibility is used, the quantity of allowances auctioned by Finland would be reduced accordingly. The Energy and Climate Strategy estimates that full use of flexibility would mean a total loss of EUR 160 million to the State in the auctioning revenues of allowances for the period 2021 to 2030. This estimate is based on an average unit price of EUR 23. However, most of the emission reduction measures in the burden-sharing sector are clearly more expensive than this. As the Minister mentioned, the Government could also decide to cancel allowances if electricity generation capacity was closed in Finland due to additional national measures. In both cases, the quantity of allowances to be auctioned in Finland would be reduced accordingly. For example, the ban on the use of coal releases allowances that could be cancelled. The future issue of an emissions permit and emission monitoring plan by different management decisions would result in the ETS being obliged to approve a new separate emission monitoring plan for each installation under the emissions trading scheme for the trading period beginning in 2021 and to amend the existing permit accordingly. Once the permit and monitoring plan has been separated, non-significant changes to the monitoring plan would be possible by updating the monitoring plan without the management decision of the ETS. Finally, the proposed streamlined procedure would be faster, more flexible and cheaper for both the emissions trading authority and the operator. Mr President! When this matter is referred to committee, we should probably think about what to do in the end. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u176	And the reply, Minister, three minutes, is that enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u177	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Sarkki and Mr Mäkipää for their very expert contributions to this problem. Just a few remarks. The increase in the price of allowances, which Mr Sarkkinen made very clear, that it has, fortunately, now increased, not just happened on its own, but was decided by the Environment Council about a year ago to step up this transfer of allowances to the market stability reserve, and then prices started to rise. It was absolutely the right thing to do, and then, in the future too, if these rights actually accumulate in the market stability reserve to an excessive extent, a mechanism has been agreed on how to nullify them and try to keep them guided. The flexibility associated with this cancellation of emissions trading rights and the use of its benefits outside the emissions trading is quite limited. I believe that eight Member States will be allowed to use a few percentage points after these negotiations, and that possibility is targeted precisely at those countries with the highest emission reduction rate, and precisely from the point of view of this cost-effectiveness. Just like the representative. Mr Mäkipää said that those emission reductions outside the emissions trading sector could become much more expensive, and that is why the country can use this flexibility when considering it. With regard to the free distribution, where Mr Sarkkinen wondered if it was in order: after all, rights are now not allocated free of charge according to what anyone would want or need now, but according to this benchmark, benchmarking, where the industry is, as it were, the best institutions in the industry, the comparison by which free access is obtained. Then, in so far as the industrial plant needs more allowances, they must be purchased. And then this reference level will be tightened up all the time, there will always be periodic revisions. So here, too, in the free allocation, this way we go down from the plant to keep that steering effect adequate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u178	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u179	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! This proposal therefore proposes a 50 million reduction in vehicle tax. After all, this government made an increase of 100 million in vehicle tax for the tax year 2017, and now 50 million is taken out of that increase, with the exception of previous taxation, which places emphasis on low-emission cars. The average impact is about 20 euros. After all, during this term of government, the car tax has also been reduced by EUR 200 million, which has partly boosted our car trade. I remember when this tax proposal was introduced as part of the Government Programme for Parliament's consideration, there was criticism of the reduction in car tax from the left side of the hall. But now that we have looked at the profits, it has done exactly what it usually does, that once the tax has been reduced, its dynamic effects have actually increased trade and thus increased tax revenues. There has also been a debate in the committee on what kind of guidance would actually be most favourable to the emission reduction targets in transport, and this brings me to my favourite subject, namely the car tax. Our human contribution to climate change is largely due to the use of fossil fuels. Transport produces about one fifth of our country’s greenhouse gas emissions, and the share has remained quite the same for a long time. At the same time, however, most of the emissions from road transport have decreased clearly since the end of the 1980s, even though traffic volumes have increased in Finland. Emissions from transport have been curbed, for example, by cleaner combustible fuels and catalytic converters cleaning exhaust gases. However, CO2 emissions continued to grow for a long time, reaching their peak in 2005, and there is still a lot to be done. Indeed, the EU has set very ambitious targets for CO2 emissions in transport: in 2050 emissions should be 60% lower than 1990 levels, and this is a very long way to go, because by the end of this decade emissions still exceeded 1990 emissions by around 4%. At the same time, according to the national energy and climate strategy, greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport must be reduced by 50% by 2030. In addition, according to the Government’s climate policy objectives, our country must be carbon neutral by 2045. The amount of CO2 emissions from transport is directly related to the quantity and quality of the fuel used. Reducing fossil fuel consumption is therefore the most important means of reducing CO2 emissions from transport. The objective is therefore that in 2030 biofuels in transport will account for 30% of all fuel used. In all of this, the key point is that our car fleet should be able to regenerate vigorously. However, we still have an ageing fleet, which has been out of date for almost a decade. The average daily passenger car on our roads is almost 12 years old. The average age of vans removed from the register is now almost 21 years. The car fleet in our country is thus the oldest in Europe and, in fact, the oldest in the Nordic countries. In Norway and Sweden, the average age of passenger cars is about 10 years and in Denmark it is less than 9 years. In the last 10 years, we have moved on to a series of Eastern European countries from Nordic associations. Even though we have reduced the car tax during this reign, this year will eventually become the year of importing all-time old cars. With the changes in the tax system, Germany, and Sweden in particular, is now being applied for large, more consuming and more accessible diesel-powered cars. It's reasonable for the buyer of the car, it's absurd for our country. We need to fix this quickly. In my opinion, now would be the right time for a decision to be taken on the abolition of car tax. This could take place during one parliamentary term, for example, between 4 and 6 years, and, as the Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo has suggested, the car tax on zero emissions and low emissions cars would be abolished first.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u182	Mr President! Reducing emissions from transport is one of the key elements of national climate policy, as transport accounts for about one fifth of Finland's greenhouse gas emissions and the majority of road traffic. Climate change requires Finland to at least halve transport emissions from 2005 levels by 2030. Reducing emissions requires, among other things, more public transport, a comprehensive electrification of transport and a reduction in emissions from passenger cars. Vehicle tax is a key tool to guide the choice of a low-emission vehicle. The change in air conditions requires that the steering effect of the vehicle tax be further strengthened. This presupposes that the tax on vehicles with lower emissions is reduced and that the tax on cars with higher emissions can be increased accordingly. The government is now proposing a reduction of the basic vehicle tax rate by a total of EUR 50 million per year by allocating the reduction to vehicles with a maximum CO2 emission of around 200 grams per kilometre. The tax reduction also applies to higher-emission cars, as the average CO2 emissions of passenger cars used for transport are about 159 grams per kilometre. Emissions from new vehicles are even lower than this, as CO2 emissions from passenger cars registered in 2018 are estimated at an average of 116 grams per kilometre. In the Government's proposal, the weight of tax reduction is therefore low-emission vehicles, but the proposal cannot be considered to be in line with Finland's climate objectives. Both the Government's proposal and the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment have stated that the environmental impact of changes in vehicle tax is negligible. It is clear that the achievement of transport emissions targets requires the use of taxation to reduce emissions. We therefore believe that the emission level of the vehicle tax should also be tightened so as to encourage the purchase of electric cars and hybrids charged with electricity in particular. The most effective way of reducing emissions is by increasing the supply of new low-emission cars, as the new cars now being purchased will still be in traffic after years. Therefore, vehicle tax reductions should only be applied to those vehicles with lower emissions than the average of the first registered passenger cars, i.e. an estimated 116 grams per kilometre. At the same time, the emission level of the vehicle tax should be tightened from the 2017 level so that the tax on electric cars and all other vehicles with lower emissions will fall more than in the government proposal and the vehicle tax on all vehicles with higher emissions will be increased accordingly. In view of the above, I propose that Parliament accept the statement of objections, which therefore reads as follows: ‘The government will require a modification of the vehicle tax law to be implemented following:the basic tax rate on vehicles with a carbon dioxide emission of 116g/km at the level of 2017;the reduction in the level of the level of the vehicle tax will be reduced by a further reduction in the level of emissions of less emission of less than
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u183	Madam President! Mr Heinonen made a long, thorough speech in which he dealt specifically with the car tax, but it is now a question of calculating the vehicle tax. This is indeed a very special presentation in the sense that if the aim is to shift the focus from buying and owning a car to using it in the form of an annual vehicle tax or from consumption, fuel or perhaps future tolls or some other system based on use, this is totally contrary to this development. In other words, if Mr Heinonen meant that next parliamentary term would continue the line of reducing the tax on cars and tightening the tax on car use, he would probably not be in a position to accept such a proposal, which will come into force in 20 C.E., in exactly the opposite direction. All in all, as is apparent from this committee's report, this is a rather peculiar proposal. First of all, it came in such a hurry that it could not be asked for opinions during the preparatory phase. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport and Communications have stated very critically in the committee's consultation that this is completely contrary to our climate objectives and to the emissions targets set for transport. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the committee notes that a direct quotation is made: ‘The committee is prepared to adopt the draft as part of the budget agreement without prejudice to the criticisms presented. “ In other words, these are very contradictory proposals for combating climate change and reducing emissions from transport just because they are part of some budget agreement package for me-sulle, and so that this does not apply to next year's budget, but will move into the next parliamentary term for 2020. Really, really, really strange. And, as it says here, although this marginal steering effect is, as also stated in this report, it is likely to disappear as a result of the increase in transport performance. So I have to say that if Mrs Emma Kari here will later present the rejection of this bill, and I may ask for another floor to support him.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u184	Madam President! Representative Jonah Mr Räsänen read an objection earlier, and before I support that proposal, I would like to say a few words. Yesterday I was in Heinola at this sort of conference on highway 4, the European E75 road, where these climate emissions from motor vehicle traffic and over-the-counter Finnish transport were also reviewed. It left in mind an interesting detail that I wrote on a paper corner: 93% of domestic greenhouse gas emissions come from road transport, 4% from water transport, 2% from air transport and 1% from these greenhouse gases for rail transport. The Government has set itself and Finland has set itself climate targets, which, however, the Government's proposal does not start following, but goes in the other direction. Vehicle tax is a key tool for implementing and reducing climate targets, and it would be desirable for this government proposal to present a little more challenge to itself, Parliament and all road users. It is also important, of course, to take into account the fact that the renewal of the fleet does not impose too much burden on low-income people, who can often use a vehicle with higher emissions, but can find a balance in the direction and speed of progress, but also in such a way that the vehicle fleet can be reformed in a sustainable way, and then the main focus should be on these particular road vehicles and yuppie scooters, as is said in other contexts. I therefore support Mr Räsänen's objection to the motion for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u185	Mr President! It is easy to agree with Mr Uotila that this is a very special proposal to bring Parliament in this time. The evening paper reported on this performance under the heading “Today,the Finnish Government continued to pollute with EUR50million”,because this performance was produced after 24 hours after we had And then it seemed to be said that this is exactly what we should do, that we should do much more, that we should do much more, that we should do much faster, and then there will be a massive tax reduction on motoring. And when you read this report, there is really no basis for supporting this proposal. In fact, it states: ‘The preparation cannot use the expertise of the Ministry of the Environment or Transport and Communications as a useful tool. Both ministries have highlighted the demanding emission reduction targets set for transport in the course of the consultation and have considered this proposal to be contrary to them.’ In other words, this proposal is contrary to the existing emission targets, which are insufficient. We cannot by any means be in favour of this proposal in this time period, and since this is quite clearly contrary to climate objectives, I am proposing to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u186	Madam President! Mr Uotila drew attention to my own speech. That was precisely where I wanted to look at this whole, the bigger picture and the larger entity, and then, if we were to leave the car tax, that would naturally mean an increase in the vehicle tax. And now that no decision has been taken to abolish the car tax, this type of repair movement on the side of the vehicle tax may also be justified in some way in the country of long distances, especially since it is now being made to target less-emission cars, or the focus is there. But all in all, I think we have been thinking for too long about transport taxation, almost everything, with this financial approach. In other words, fuel taxation has been increased because it collects money into the state’s trunk, and changes have been made mainly according to the perspective of how to collect the amount that is now being collected, or preferably even a little more. I myself outlined the fact that we are, in a certain way, coming to the end of the road in the taxation of transport and motor vehicles, and that means that we need new tax models. We will no longer have fuel taxation in the future in this way as it currently operates. We have seen what has happened to the price of diesel, and the diesel tax debate will come to Parliament after a while, and many more. In my opinion, then we need such a broader debate on the way transport will be taxed in the future, the priorities there will be, and then I think that the most important thing to do is to find the means that will guide our fleet to renewal. The focus is shifted not to buy a car or to buy a less emission car, but rather to use a car and so away. In other words, we are genuinely looking for measures that can influence transport emissions. As I said myself, the majority of man-made climate change is due to the use of fossil fuels, which is why the renewal and acceleration of the fleet of cars is of paramount importance here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u187	Madam President! This objection by the SDP stated that the basic tax would remain at the same level and that the vehicle tax would be reduced where there were lower emissions and then raised where the emissions were higher. I also think that this sounds a little like a policy for you—mulle, when tax returns are considered neutral. If we genuinely go for climate targets, as we should, because transport is indeed one of the causes of climate pollution, then my own view is that if we want results quickly, the obligation to mix fuels is something we need to tackle quickly. This will bring results, and all Finns will get involved in this, and it will be a cost-effective solution for us all to be able to afford it. There's also been a lot of talk here about electric cars. Then we must ask where the raw materials from the electric car battery industry come from. Of course, there will be a debate between Talvivaara and the mining industry in Harjavalta, and if there is to be support for these things then of course the future of electric cars will be closer than I estimated at this stage. But quick action is achieved by the fuel mixing obligation. Mr Kari spoke here about greenhouse gas emissions and air transport, which is responsible for 2% of it. Now, if we want big solutions in these areas too, then I wonder that here, for example, the Greens and the Left Alliance in public are at least telling us that air transport charges, taxes, could be used to find a good solution. It doesn't just fix it. Yes, we need to address this big issue, and then we need to address biofuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u188	Madam President! Many experts have found that throwing yourself into biofuels, just as in the long run, can be a rather fatal choice. As far as air transport is concerned, of course it is a small part of our domestic emissions, but if you think of it at global level, air transport is one of the worst contributors to climate change, and it is a miracle that it would not be marginally dared to intervene at the Finnish level as well as Sweden. Then to Mr Heinos: we are in exactly the same line that, because of transport technology, fuel technology, motor technology and other changes, this old way of collecting taxes does not produce the tax revenue that the welfare society needs on transport, and I am sure we both agree that this revenue will continue to be needed. We must be able to shift the focus from ownership to consumption, and that will certainly mean that we really have to go on talking about congestion charges and tolls and so on in the future. On 12 December, a working group of officials from the Ministry of Transport and Communications will report on what needs to be done in order to achieve the objective of halving transport emissions by 30 and making transport by 45 emission-free, what it means, what needs to be done, and I am quite sure that it will be quite a lot to think about for us in real terms. Those solutions will not be easy and they will not be all pleasant, but the price we must prepare to pay if we are to take care of the climate goals we ourselves have decided. Finally, Mr President, I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mrs Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u189	Mr President! I personally believe that the report on 12 December will be challenging and will require major decisions from us. Now if there's a representative Even the Uotila a little called for what to be done, I could imagine that, as a single performance, there would be a strong electrification of traffic and the arrival of electric cars and hybrids. So I ask Mr Uotila: are you prepared to pay the price that electric cars are paying today and do you propose to your own voters that this is the solution? I myself would be looking for a solution that Finns actually can afford in this situation. We do not have the average Finn to buy an electric car for many years if it is about getting a new car. Their price development must be brought much closer to internal combustion engines so that they become so-called cars of all the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u190	Mr President! When Mr. Pakkanen directly asked: Yes, it is a challenge, of course. Electric car technology is still expensive and battery technology is still challenging, which means that the availability of cars, especially in our circumstances, is still challenging. In any case, however, I believe that this working group of officials will make it clear that we need to move ahead with electrification more quickly than has been envisaged so far. It probably makes you wonder how we compensate, how we take account of the necessary traffic, how we take account of long distances, how we take account of income levels and in that way. That the challenge for the next parliamentary term will be enough, and much needs to be done in order to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u191	Mr President! This conversation is already going a little like this for the future. I believe that this is more than welcome and appropriate when it comes to transport and motoring and, above all, to the type of emissions that transport is causing. However, I do not necessarily see quite a great leap in electric cars in the direction that they are being reached by more and more people. There has already been information from Japan, among other things, on how Toyota is bringing in a completely new electric car in 2022, whose batteries are based on new technologies and recharged in a new way, and there has also been a lot of discussion about the fact that prices for these cars will fall. But it is true that our climate may continue to pose some challenges in the future, i.e. the cold will affect, for example, battery charging and battery durability and so on. Personally, I think there will be some pretty big steps in this area in the next five years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u192	Mr President! I am very pleased that this issue of electric cars has come up. That is precisely where the problem lies. I would much rather be here to discuss the proposal on how we would spend 50 million dollars on how we can promote electric motoring. Greens, for example, have proposed a temporary exemption for electric cars from car taxation, which would encourage the entry of electric cars into the market and bring down the price of electric cars. Instead, we are dealing here with the proposal to reduce the taxation of petrol-powered cars, which is not in line with our climate objectives, nor is it conducive to electric motoring.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u193	Mr President! The issue raised electric cars, and it is a great pleasure to hear that we are jointly taking this forward, that the use of electric cars will also be increased in Finland. Of course, it is also a great thing that we are able to promote this industry and the use of electric cars in the world, even here in Finland, when we start producing battery minerals for electric cars in Terrafame's multi-metal company. It is news that, if you think about what decisions have been made for Terrafame in this period here in Parliament and by the government, it is a pleasure to see now that we are also able to promote the use of electric cars when the production of batteries can be made in Finland. Let us hope that batteries will be able to be made, then production will also be made in Finland. Let us also be progressive here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u194	Mr President! Of course, it is great to think that electric cars and the battery industry are quickly entering the market. Equally, then, we are strongly in favour, as I also feel, of the need for support from Kainuu and Winterfell, so that it can be mined, but it is a bit contradictory to think that we are opposed to the Winterfell mining industry, but then we imagine that electric cars must be quickly brought to our market cheaply. Personally, I do not like the fact that tax money clearly supports the purchase of expensive electric cars here, but I would like to assume that the fuel blending obligation is what all of us Finns can afford. We already have cars where this cheap fuel can be used. Let's do the climate thing with it. When technology develops and electric cars come to the market and they are available to all of us, we must remember that if we sell such 120,000 cars in Finland, we have 3 million cars, and if we get an environmentally friendly fuel for these 3 million cars, it is much more effective climate protection than this tax advantage for new cars and therefore support for a few thousand cars. There has always been a great deal of criticism here that tax subsidies are being given to the good people. Buying a new car is exactly the support of the good people, which means that this is also an interesting policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u195	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented on the 9th of the order of business. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the UaVM 11/2018 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u196	Mr President! It is important that Finland assumes international responsibility and actively participates in peacekeeping and crisis management. In Iraq, Finland participates in the International Coalition against Isil Security Training in Iraq, i.e. the ORI operation, currently with about 100 soldiers. In June 2018, the Government gave Parliament a report on the continued participation of approximately 80 soldiers. This reduction of troops is in the right direction, and the left-wing parliamentary group supported this presentation of the Government report. It is important that Finland also undertakes to target aid to other sectors, such as reconstruction and civilian crisis management. When Isil is, fortunately, largely militaryly defeated now, the main focus of Finland's operations must be on non-military activities. Military support is only one element in the stabilisation of Iraq. Mr President! In the opinion of the Left Alliance's parliamentary group, it is not justified that Finland participates in a new NATO training mission in Iraq, as there is no justification for breaking up Finland's participation in many different missions in the region. Finland’s resources as a small country are limited, so resources and operations should be concentrated on their own strengths and carefully selected operations. Mr President! On the basis of the above, I propose, in accordance with the proposal made in committee, that Parliament rejects the Government's proposal to participate in the training mission conducted by the North Atlantic Alliance in Iraq by means of an Exchange of Letters between the Government of Finland and the North Atlantic Alliance in accordance with the letter of the North Atlantic Alliance dated 22 October 2018, and I propose that Parliament rejects the bill contained in the Government's proposal HE 209.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u197	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. A suggestion made by Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u198	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 19/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u199	Mr President! The proceedings include a proposal from the Board of Directors for the amendment of Articles 1 and 3 of the Act on a limited liability company called Hansel Oy. The aim of the proposal is primarily to enable the merger of Hansel Oy and KL-Kuntahannat Oy. The proposal suggests that in future Hansel's customers could also include municipalities, joint municipal authorities, the Evangelical Lutheran Church, the Orthodox Church and Keva. At the same time, the law would be amended so that the shareholders of Hansel Oy could be other than the State. In an expert consultation with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the proposal has been welcomed as a starting point. The reform can reduce the duplication of administrative work by organisations, achieve cost savings and, in particular, improve the efficiency of international procurement. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the proposal to be justified and appropriate and supports the adoption of the government proposal without amendment. The critical aspects of the proposal concern mainly the functioning of the procurement market and the role of SMEs in the procurement field. The main concerns are the possible over-concentration of procurement to Hansel and the access of SMEs to the procurement market. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers it essential to ensure the participation of SMEs in the procurement market. Although the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the concerns expressed in the expert consultation to be justified, the Committee draws attention to the fact that the total volume of public procurement is around EUR 35 billion per year, of which Hansel and KL-Kuntakunnat together account for approximately EUR 1.2 billion. Most of the purchases are made outside the joint procurement arrangements. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also stresses that the proposal does not imply that Hansel's customers are obliged to use Hansel's services in their procurements. Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses in particular the means provided by the Procurement Act to facilitate access to the market for businesses and to safeguard the position of SMEs. Acquisitions must also be made in such a way that even smaller operators can participate in government and municipal procurements other than as subcontractors. This can be facilitated in particular by the distribution of procurement to appropriate entities. Mr President! The proposal for a decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy is that Parliament adopt the bill contained in the government proposal without amendment. In addition, the Economic Committee proposes that the Parliament give its consent to the ownership and corporate arrangement of Hansel Oy and KL-Kuntahannat Oy, where the Finnish State ceases to be the sole owner of Hansel Oy in such a way that the State retains control over the company. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has been unanimous in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u200	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 6/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u201	Mr. Speaker! The Government has submitted a proposal to the Parliament to amend Article 30 of the Åland Self-Government Act, and the Constitutional Committee has submitted a report on this matter, and I am now presenting this report. The government proposal proposes to amend the section of the Self-Government Act on the organisation of consumer advice. Consumer protection is a matter of national legislative power. According to the legislation in force on consumer advice, the tasks of the Local Register Office in the province are carried out by the provincial authorities according to an agreement between the province and the state. It is now proposed to amend this to take account of the shift of consumer advice tasks from the national register offices to the Competition and Consumer Protection Office, i.e. the term ‘maitrate would be replaced by the term ‘Competition and Consumer Authority’. As such, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers this proposal necessary and appropriate. The government has proposed that, since this proposal is linked to reforms in the field of state administration, this should be dealt with as a matter of urgency as provided for in Article 73(2) of the Constitution, and the Constitutional Committee has dealt with this issue. First of all, the Act of Self-Government can only be amended by unanimous decisions of the parliament and the provincial days. A decision shall be taken in the Parliament in the order provided for in the amendment of the Constitution. In general terms, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered it important, in the light of the considerations relating to the proportionality and constitutional status of the Constitution, that amendments to the text of the Constitution should be dealt with under the general rule in the so-called normal constitutional order in accordance with Article 73(1) of the Constitution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also considered it very important that the urgent procedure for amending the Constitution is not used except in urgent situations. This same principle also applies to the adoption of permanent exceptional laws. During the period of validity of the Constitution, Parliament has five times discussed the amendment of the Åland Autonomous Law. On three occasions — in 2002, 2010 and 2014 — Parliament has submitted a legislative proposal in accordance with the position set out in the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to rest in the subsequent parliamentary elections in accordance with Article 73(1) of the Constitution. Twice, in 2009, i.e. right in the middle of the parliamentary term, Parliament has dealt with and adopted draft laws amending the Act of Self-Government in the urgent constitutional order under Article 73(2) of the Constitution. In dealing with this government proposal, the Constitutional Committee has concluded that the arguments put forward for the amendment now being proposed do not, in view of the date on which the provision was laid down — i.e. so close to the elections — and the special status of the Åland Islands under the constitution of self-government and self-government law, on the one hand, are not sufficient to support the urgent procedure under Article 73(2) of the Constitution to deal with the amendment to the Act of Self-Government. The committee therefore considers that there is no need to assess the order of amendments to the Act of Autonomy in a way that is substantially different from the text of the Constitution and the permanent derogations and that it is therefore appropriate to deal with the draft law in the normal constitutional order in accordance with Article 73(1) of the Act. As far as the draft law is concerned, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that it be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-20-ps-117.u202	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate and discussion were suspended at the plenary session on 16 November 2018.
