ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u1	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u2	Mr President! Controlling climate change requires both reducing emissions and increasing removals, i.e. sinks. In energy production, this means a rapid transition to renewable, decentralised energy production and a flexible, efficient and intelligent energy system. This government proposal provides for new legislation allowing production aid for renewable energy based on a technology-neutral tender, and the Left Alliance supports this legislation and this model. Mr President! Technology has developed tremendously. However, investments in renewable energy are not yet profitable on a large scale, even though technologies have developed. Renewable support is needed as emissions trading is not yet sufficiently functioning and energy prices are low. This transitional solution is needed when carbon pricing is unfortunately not working with emissions trading or taxation. Mr President! The Government has now linked the system of renewable energy tendering and the abandonment of coal. The rapid phasing out of the use of coal energy is a very welcome decision, but it was decided to finance a EUR 90 million incentive package for quick withdrawals by reducing the size of the renewable energy tender by 0.6 terawatt hours. This is not justified. Firstly, the abandonment of coal must not be financed through renewable support, both of which are aimed at combating climate change. Hard coal must be phased out quickly, but we also need transitional support to start renewable energy investments. The size of the tender should therefore be maintained in the original 2 terawatt hours. Secondly, there is no reason why exactly 0.6 terawatt hours should produce a pot of EUR 90 million. The costs of auctioning a combination of sliding and fixed premium cannot be estimated in advance. In competitions, the price can fall close to zero once technology has developed. Mr President! It must be remembered that fossil energy is much more supported than renewable energy. The incentive package for the abandonment of coal could be financed, for example, by reducing fossil subsidies that are harmful to the environment. This would reduce emissions and support environmentally friendly restructuring, and this is what we refer to in the statement. So we are in favour of this government proposal. A technology-neutral tender is the solution for the period of transition, which also ensures the maintenance of project competence. The price to central government finances is lower as the most cost-effective projects succeed. Wind power aid is not at issue in the sense of the previous aid scheme, i.e. comparisons with the old expensive and overcompensating FIT system can be forgotten. In competition, the most efficient and cost-effective projects are successful. Mr President! In the introduction above, I would like to make two statements under protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u3	Mr President! As I said at the first reading, the problem with this proposal is an even greater drop for taxpayers, whereas, on the contrary, energy should be cheaper. Even in this proposal, support for wind power is still not being reduced enough, and the proposal is not technologically neutral. Therefore, and in accordance with the objection 1 contained in the committee's report, and on the basis of the arguments put forward, I propose that the bill be rejected. If, however, the proposal is adopted, I propose that Parliament adopt the following statement: ‘The government requires that government bodies ensure that aid for the production of electricity produced with wind will be carried out at the earliest possible speed’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u4	Mr President! I support Mr Sarkkinen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u5	Mr President! The Finns have consistently opposed wind power subsidies because they are unfair. If we really want to save the earth, then we need to make a fair climate policy and this money will also be spent on research and much more rational, because this really is practically wind power support number two. Even if something else is said here, in practice most of this support will go to wind power, so I definitely support this motion of objection from Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u9	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! There have been some good speeches ahead of us. We must make decisive decisions towards renewable energy and towards cleaner, cleaner energy alternatives. I personally welcome the encouragement to abandon coal and speed up that path. We have a number of smaller places, smaller cities, smaller localities already moved in the forefront of renewable energy use, but we still have this need to take action in the big cities. In that sense, I welcome this kind of transitional support. I personally commend the fact that the solution is based on the fact that we are moving towards technological neutrality. In fact, technology is always ahead of legislation in all situations and often ahead of us laymen. That is why it is good that we are dealing with this legislation or something else, so let us set the goals we need to achieve, but let these technology developers find the means to do so. On the other hand, such a technology-neutral solution encourages innovation, and I personally hope that there will be more vigorous steps on this side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u10	Madam President! This report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, together with these contributions for renewable energy, is a good one, given that there is enormous pressure on this side. Everyone would like more support, which is a natural state of will, but on the other hand we must also recognise that we cannot go into a policy of support which would increase costs, let alone be contrary to European Union rules. In my view, this report, which has been made between these marginal conditions, is all right and I attach great importance to the fact that, for example, the Socialist Group strongly supported this report. That's a good sign. But what I am concerned about is indeed this production of CHP power in the years to come. From the perspective of the Finnish climate, it is obvious that such combined heat and power production is very suitable for this country. When there is a high frost, a lot of heat is needed, and then this strong heat production produces more and more electricity as a by-product, which also goes with the high frost. More than two years ago, in January, we had a situation where, at a time of severe frost, there was a situation where electricity production was full and then production was also large at that time, the economy was spinning and industry was spinning and not getting enough electricity. Fortunately, there was a weekend when aid was provided from neighbouring countries, when large quantities of electricity were imported, but there was a situation very close to driving down part of the country, i.e. restricting the distribution of electricity. It would have felt pretty bad in a 40-degree freezer in some corner of the cabin when suddenly the lights went out. In practice, it would also have stopped heat production in those areas, because, for example, oil boilers or chipping plants do not play unless there is electricity. This is why it is worthwhile for Finns to remember now and finally the fact that we use these own raw materials and build this energy policy in the direction of using our own wood chips that grow in our forests. Whether we use fiberwood or some other worthless tree too much or too little is, in my opinion, smarty-pants. We must do so by using our own wood supply, and we also need peat for these CHP power plants. For example, the situation in the world today is that, when the price of pulp is very high, the European market is pulling all the pulp and all the fibrewood, for example, everything that has come to us so far from Russia is being made pulp today and we have a huge shortage of domestic energy in power plants. The peat is very suitable for that equation because it supports CHP power production and also gives more power, increases both the amount of heat and the amount of electricity, because the combustion temperature is higher, and particulate emissions are reduced. I am increasingly calling for a Finnish perspective. I think that this report, which is now on the table here, is a good one, but we must be able to do better in the next.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u11	Madam President! The renewable energy support package has been prepared for a very long time and in depth. It is good that it is now concluded. After all, 226 million of these feed-in tariffs have been paid in 2016, of which 196 million have gone to wind power. It is not the fault of wind turbines, but, above all, the fact that these others — the sun and other renewable energy sources — have not yet been sufficiently competitive, but it is hoped that they will be in the future. And the hydroelectric plant was deliberately excluded from this solution. This is therefore based on the auction system, and when we have talked about these amounts, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was estimated that these costs will be between 120 million and 360 million for 12 years. But it's not like it's going to get dizzy on an annual basis. This withdrawal of 90 million from this package to speed up the phasing out of coal is justified in such a way that it would speed up these solutions, and the SDP's initiative to reach a common view on this solution for CHP plants, CHP plants, that it will encourage the abandonment of coal, but also for installations that do not use coal but are ready to move to new technologies and new innovations. From this point of view, we were prepared to support this solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u12	Madam President! Indeed, I think this is the world's first technologically neutral competition for electricity generation aid. There are these competitions in Central Europe too, but they are always in baskets. Perhaps a small crack in this technological neutrality is that there is no hydropower involved, and this was the subject of debate. But, of course, even hydropower is justified by the fact that it takes a long time to obtain hydropower permits, and then, indeed, through the support for electricity generation, not all these steps and others can be financed. It is therefore a wish, which is what the report calls for a system of aid for investments in hydropower to be sufficiently effective and also flexible to work equally in the promotion of small hydropower. The target is indeed 210 million to spend over a 12-year period. This is much cheaper for the State than previous production aid schemes. This 90 million incentive then speeds up this decarbonisation. After all, the objective is that on 1 May 2029 we have renounced coal production, combustion energy in electricity production, and it is hoped that this will also create good conditions for this decarbonisation. The 90 million will be divided into two parts: half of it is to replace coal energy with a different technology, and the other half is to look at the different types of installations, as Mrs Hoskonen has just mentioned here, in what way, for example, coal installations see how this sulphur system works there. It is hoped that this would also increase the use of our biomass in these plants, and as such as domestic energy in addition to this, it is possible to use 85 percent of this current renewable energy, and it also allows then such force majeure points but also then, for example, the use of this peat in various plants. This was a very good debate, and then we had a good-spirited debate in that committee, and I see that it was the Social Democrats who joined us. This carbon issue will be a new government proposal later in the autumn, and we will probably come back to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u13	Madam President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has produced a very good report. There are a few things I want to raise. The committee has stressed this or regretted that the government's proposal has taken a rather narrow view of the importance of hydropower. It seems like this is the common view that it may not be raised any further. I'm sure it's a well-founded point of view. The importance of solar energy will certainly increase significantly in the future. Especially when there is a spring like this, as the sun has been shining constantly, the significance of solar energy will grow. That's a straight line. Then some aspects of this forest biomass and combined production of electricity and heat: This report raises this problem in the sawmill industry, increasing the use of by-products, chewing and peeling, and strengthening the competitive position. It is certainly a well-founded view from the point of view of the sawmill industry, and there are certainly problems there. But, of course, as a small forest owner, I see that maintaining and actually strengthening this support for the production of forest chips is the first thing and, above all, that forest chips should be domestic and not be driven from Russia. Currently, at least in Eastern Finland, trucks import pick-up material from Russia. All in all, there would be a lot of work to be done here. I do have the impression that it does not make sense for forests to put wood like wood as chips. There is much more sensible use for logs and fibers than putting it into forest chips, because forest chips in Finland are enough if we just want to take it out. So, all in all, I see this as a challenge in order to keep the forests in order and take the pick-up out. Coal policy is a very good line in committee, and we must give special thanks for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u14	Madam President! There have been good speeches here, and I would also like to thank the opposition representative, Mr Ihalainen, for his constructive contribution. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry drew attention to technological neutrality in that it would also be ensured for forest biomass. After all, we all know that there are huge piles of bark and chew, and there is reason to create an incentive system for this untapped ingredient, as well as incentives for the use of small trees of less value. After all, we do not need to be nervous about what the representative mentioned earlier that the log would go intocineration. Of course, the price controls where the tree is placed. If you can get up to 60 euros per cube and less than 10 euros from wood chips, the sensible forest owner will put the wood where it can get the best added value. But we were also concerned about the use of this wood chip in the sense that when there is an 85 % limit, we wonder whether it will help the institutions to dare to apply for this tariff subsidy. Similarly, this minimum requirement is reasonably high. Above all, we would also like to ensure the competitiveness of small CHP plants. On the other hand, now that the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has come into being, this decarbonisation will contribute to the creation of these markets. Finally, we said that another type of system is needed for the production of biogas power plants, because even Pöyry's study did not make it very clear that biogas power stations would become such a system, although this has, of course, been designed to be technologically neutral. There will certainly be more wind and sun, and that is a good thing, but we also hope that the use of forest biomass will increase, because this will all come together when we get new investments in the forest sector moving.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u15	Mr President! In many speeches, but perhaps not so much in the previous speech, the emphasis has been placed on this technological neutrality. I want to make it right that it's not true. It is now limited, for example, from hydropower and, in practice, from plants producing electricity and heat, i.e. this is not technologically neutral. Furthermore, we stress that the Government's proposal has not considered any of the noise, flash and other drawbacks associated with the construction of wind power, even though this was the subject of the Government negotiations at the time, i.e. it has not followed these own, commonly agreed issues. But here I want to make sure that there is no doubt about it: I support Mr Mäkelä's statement and support Mr Mäkelä's protest. We absolutely want these legislative proposals to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u16	Irade the Talman! After all, this is a step forward in relation to the previous aid scheme. This is a system that responds to technological developments and reacts to market change, and its task cannot be to ensure cheap electricity, but to ensure that the share of renewable electricity in the market is growing and that Finland is thus preparing for the challenges of the future. Mr Hoskonen raised concerns about the future of CHP power plants, and that is an entirely relevant concern in itself, but CHP plants are not ensured by creating a market for peat as a fuel, but by using other means. That is why I think it is contradictory that wood fuel and biogas plants, which only account for 85 renewables, should now be included in the renewable electricity generation plant, that is to say, it was dropped from that draft. This is, however, partly contradictory to the objectives, both in terms of renewableity and in terms of climate objectives. Now that there is a package of incentives for the dismantling of coal - power plants, it is essential that these investments go to technological development and the search for new solutions instead of being directed to existing, conventional biotechnology. At the general level, emissions trading is a system that is not working in an optimal way and it would be good if Finland were to try to get some kind of base price for emission allowances and that the price would increase in the long term in order to have a practical impact on the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u17	Mr President! Combined heat and power production has emerged here, and that is an excellent way to produce both heat and electricity, because efficiency is already rising well over 90 at its best. But one reason why this combined heat and power production today is in difficulty is the low price of electricity. Many will then build this heat component alone, and we will have to drop it out of electricity, and that capacity will be needed because we have several thousand power shortages in Finland and we will have to rely on up to 25 per cent of imports. Fortunately, that import will play and hopefully continue to play. This new support system is relatively friendly to taxpayers compared to the previous one. I was just looking at the statistics, and this year the wind power subsidy cost 60 million in the first quarter and last year it cost 200 million, so that very generous organizers simply because of the fact that of course no one could predict the price of electricity. In order to put this emissions trading, and CO2 and greenhouse emissions in general, in the right international compartment, the total emissions of the Finnish emissions trading sector in 2017 amounted to approximately 25 million tonnes of CO2. When you look at these best European plants, I think there will be a number one in Poland: Europe's largest-emission power plant is the Belchatów power plant in Poland. Its emissions amounted to 37 million tonnes of carbon dioxide — it is a coal power plant — one and a half times the total emissions in Finland. When these problems are global, it is sometimes worth considering these systems in neighbouring countries: how generous the non-ETS sector will be for them. This burden was quite costly for Finland. Two is in Germany, the German Neuroth power plant, 33 million tonnes. Germany took over two new coal condensing plants of more than a thousand megawatts after they declared that they would abandon nuclear power. It is also good to think about these things in Finland at times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u18	Madam President! It really needs to be taken into account here that, when it comes to aid for energy production, it is basically an overlapping system with emissions trading. It is a genuinely difficult question whether this renewable support will ultimately reduce emissions at all, as it will not reduce the number of allowances on the market. A solution to this could be to buy a total quantity of allowances equivalent to the estimated emission reductions of renewable support out of the emissions trading market. After all, the size of the support system here is very small in relation to the planned investments in renewable energy, but the proposal is nevertheless to be welcomed as a small one. However, as long as emissions trading does not adequately guide cleaner energy production due to the too low price of allowances, this support for renewable energy is necessary. Although the cost of producing renewable energy has plummeted in recent years, these projects do not sufficiently trigger emission allowances and energy at current prices. This transitional support is needed. This has also been the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. As a model, this new competitive system is a good and successful one. It is certainly more efficient than the old and expensive feed-in tariff, cost-effective, and there is no possibility of over-subsidisation. It is honest to say, as Mr Adlercreutz pointed out earlier here, that it is also a hidden aid for peat burning. Current power plant technology would enable a higher share of renewable fuel in power plants than that target or limit of 85%. It's possible to reach up to 100%. The incentive package for decarbonisation must be very much supported in itself. Of course, it would also have been possible to do so by cutting subsidies for fossil fuels, such as energy tax refunds, which will be paid around EUR 230 million per year, but this is not the case for harmful subsidies in this and other contexts during this parliamentary term. Mr President! Generally speaking, the genuinely best solution to reduce emissions is to set a sufficiently high price for emissions. Therefore, Finland should strongly push for the correction of emissions trading to be sufficiently steered and the combined Nordic floor price of the emission allowance to ensure that the price of the emission allowance does not fall too low. If emissions trading cannot be corrected, the introduction of emissions taxes should be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u19	Mr President! I would like to say here that we support the government's proposal for legislation, we support it only in its original form. In that original form, the size of the tender was 2 terawatt hours, accompanied by this statement we made. We support it in the form that the renewable share of fuels should be 90%, which was in the original draft proposal of the government. This matter was already voted on at first reading and we will be voting in favour of this bill tomorrow. Mr President! For this transitional aid for coal: After all, many power plants have already stopped using coal without aid and significantly reduced it, which is good. It may be that an aid scheme is needed to implement the transition as quickly as possible and, if so, it can be supported. But it is precisely where it is financed. We see that instead of being financed by reducing the size of renewable energy tendering, it should rather be financed by cutting fossil energy support, and then there would be positive effects on emissions in the longer term and on structural change. Mr President! There has now been talk of this technology neutrality. This is technologically neutral tendering, so let the cheapest succeed. And if it had been desired to determine which forms of production received how much, then separate baskets should have been laid down. But now this solution was made from the point of view of making technological neutrality and putting the price as low as possible. In other words, this chosen model is as favourable as possible from the point of view of central government finances and, in that sense, I think it is a very well-founded choice. We've been talking about hydropower. Small hydropower has access to its own subsidies, i.e. it has a separate support system, so it is quite justified that it is not involved here — there cannot be overlapping aid schemes. As far as hydropower is concerned, there is only one project, so it cannot compete in its own category. EU rules also limit the support for these hydropower projects, which I see is well justified in the government's proposal to exclude hydropower from this competition. Mr President! These different tendering arrangements are much better than the old FIT system, and this is precisely a transitional solution to ensure that projects progress and renewable capacity are created, but this is not a sustainable solution in the long term. A sustainable solution is to correct emissions trading in such a way that the number of allowances is reduced and the price is higher. I hope that the government will support the EU's initiatives to correct emissions trading, and if it does not succeed, then there really is a need for emissions taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u20	Madam President! I would like to read an essential point in this report, which should be remembered: ‘The winner of the competition in his bid would have announced a price of EUR30 million per megawatt hour. The aid would be reduced by the difference between the market price for electricity and the reference price when the market price is higher than the reference price but lower than the sum of the reference price and premium. The aid would no longer be paid where the market price for electricity for three months would be at least equal to the sum of the reference electricity price and premium.’ In other words, the aid may be zero in the future when the market price exceeds the reference price plus the combined premium price. This doesn't seem like a very bad law to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u21	Madam President! It is important to remember that there are actually two tracks in the Common European Framework of Reference: how to promote renewable energy and how to try to reduce emissions on the one hand. And this is now the second part of them. We are trying to promote renewable energy. Then, of course, there is another track in which we are trying to reduce emissions, and in that respect it may not be fair to say that this bill of law is not intended directly to reduce emissions. No, because this is supposed to make new energy, but of course, because we will produce it from renewable sources in the future, it is quite clear that it will also reduce our emissions. Of course, this is a large entity with these two separate branches in existence. I agree here with the arguments that have been used, for example, in relation to hydropower, as to why it is not on the way in this package. Therefore, because small hydropower has its own support system and because large hydro power projects take up a huge part of this pot in their entirety, and they are of course projects such as those that have been on the move for a long time before there has even been any information about this aid scheme. All in all, it is, of course, regrettable that this support for renewable energy has been somewhat delayed in this house, but it is, of course, a good thing that it has finally come, because it is my view that there has already been some investment in renewable energy in the queue and waiting for a line to be drawn up on what kind of future legislation is going to be in favour, so that it is important that we also get investment in it now. In conclusion, perhaps it is still necessary to comment on the criticism of, for example, the energy tax cutter or the fact that it would be easy to take the money from somewhere else and then put it into renewable energy production: This problem was dealt with in the Group on Business Support, for example, and it is quite a big problem when it comes not only to industry and employment but also, of course, to energy policy. In my opinion, it would certainly be reasonable for Finland to move to the same EUR 0.5 per megawatt hour for energy taxation, which in Sweden, for example, is the level of energy taxation, instead of criticising the opposition now for being an energy tax cutter, which the previous government itself did — but it may not be very logical to deal with matters. It was probably a well-founded decision at the time when concerns were expressed about the competitiveness of Finnish industry compared to other countries. And, yes, I think it is important that, hopefully, this legislative package will also enable the traditional domestic industry to renew itself. They are interesting projects that exist in the steel industry, for example, in terms of how it would also be able to disengage from fossil fuels. If it succeeds in doing so in Finland, it will have enormous significance for the development of industry throughout this planet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u22	Madam Speaker! This was a good thing when we raised this framework slightly, let us say now, first to the global level, and it is estimated that the use of fossil fuels and also coal will increase by 2030. This legislation of ours is, of course, based on the fact that we are trying, through the EU's own help and legislation, to drive us to reduce the use of fossils. In my mind, it is quite clear that in Finland we have to give up fossil fuel first and then look at the fossil fuel in Finland once it has been achieved, so this is a very clear starting point. Here's the concern about this CHP facility. It is quite true that, even now, it has been in the expert consultation that if coal is abandoned, then there will be no new electricity being made, even with those new systems. We should be able to encourage these institutions, and also the municipal institutions, to have any reservations there, so to speak, in CHP. One of the topics we discussed was whether we could have included such CHP-baskets only, but it would have distorted competition. But at least it inspires confidence in that CHP and the use of biomass and also in electricity generation. The fact is that we have electricity prices as low as something of EUR 30 per megawatt, and I think the investment level is 50 or above, so that you should start planning these facilities. But it is hoped that competition will also be seen, and indeed, if we get, or if we get through the legislation and get notification for this, then it will be possible in October, about or at least the end of the year, to do this tendering. It is precisely at that stage that the projects that are ready can, of course, take part, or the view is that they have the building capacity to do so, i.e. permits and so on, and that, of course, eliminates such facilities or things that do not exist. But here again, Madam President, when it was mentioned that CHP had no part in this: I hope, and here too, Mr Pöyry's calculations, that it is quite possible for CHP to be equal to wind power and also solar power in this competitive process.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u23	President! First of all, I am in favour of the representative. It's a motion to reject a hillbilly. In the second place, therefore, the Committee on the Future has published a study entitled “The new opportunity for Finland’s rainstorms”andthere are 40 notable examples of the technologies related to this area and have been described. So the current situation is that electricity is produced centrally, fossil fuels are used and the control power is used, but in the challenger state where we are going, renewables are used, decentralised production is made and electricity is stored on a massive scale. So this is the time frame for us to look forward to 20 years in the Committee on the Future, and there are eight key technologies that will allow us to jump into a new era in a way. Indeed, the very rapid development of these panels will affect how we can produce electricity. Then massive electricity storage has developed considerably. Small low-cost fuel cells will be used in the future, and CHP technology will also develop rapidly. The rapid development of batteries and cookers makes it possible to store electricity more and more in a smaller space. The small nuclear power plants are coming. They are being developed strongly in the world. They're good technologies, new ones. Cheaper storage of electricity — its price is constantly falling. Artificial photosynthesis and synthetic hydrocarbons: in these cases, Finland is a pioneer. Finally, I would like to highlight the manipulation of plasmonics and photons. That, too, offers opportunities in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u24	Madam President! In his good speech, Mr Pirttila gave an excellent description of the background to this report. I would like to add to this security of supply that, in my opinion, Finland should pay more attention to security of supply than has been the case in this report. Looking at Finland's current energy production, we are highly dependent on electricity. I do not remember exactly 1%, but it is probably 25% of what we import into this country, very close to 25%. Think of it when we get that cold winter. During the winter, we saw the cold in some days, but what about the winter before us that it is four weeks from freezing to 30 degrees and yet the factories are running to the full and the production is working and the trade is going on? It will then require an enormous amount of electricity, and at that time the other neighbours will also have a large amount of electricity, both in the East, in the West and in the South. In other words, this means that we will then be in a very unhappy situation when we have to drive our own production down, because everyone in the country will be the first to look at their own electricity needs and then only the neighbour will be sold if their own needs are exceeded. In other words, we are in a situation where we are totally dependent on our neighbours for about a quarter of the amount of electricity needed, and that is a terrible situation because, in terms of the security of supply of the nation, it is at the very heart of the issue. This is why security of supply needs to be taken much more seriously in this country and, in particular, CHP power is still developing and distributed electricity generation. Of course, these centralised institutions are good institutions, I do not blame any of them, but it is always a big risk for society if we concentrate on one place, all of them. It's a big risk in a long run in itself. That is why I hope that future parliaments and future committees will take this into account when submitting reports. We have our own raw materials that can be used to make energy, and they are such energies that are always in this country. We have wood, we have hydropower, we have peat. They're all within the borders of their own country. And remember the old basic truth that the world has crises at times, and there is nothing we can do about it. They're coming, they're coming. If we recall the last century, we have had serious crises in the last century. No one wants them, but they still come. In other words, we should prepare ourselves for them by cutting our own energy policy into the position that we can also manage in difficult times and in exceptional circumstances. This is why renewable energy is extremely important, and it is important that these production decisions are made in this country and that the largest possible proportion of raw materials can be produced themselves. That is what we have the natural resources to do, and it is not about destroying diversity, it is about normal economic use, which is also allowed in other parts of Europe. Why don't we?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u25	Mr President! In the 21st century, the tone with which we talk about wind power has undergone quite a change. Even at the beginning of the 21st century, when there was talk of wind power being terribly expensive, traditional energy operators, in particular, have increasingly started to complain that wind power is ruining the electricity market by reducing the price of electricity. The Aalto University School of Economics published a study last year that estimated that wind power could cut consumers' electricity bills by 2020, i.e. the price of electricity, by up to two thirds, and last year in the Nordic market by the 21st century due to wind power, has reduced electricity by 20%, which means an annual saving of between EUR 3 and EUR 4 billion for electricity buyers. This is because the instantaneous market price for electricity is always determined according to the most expensive production method and wind power cuts when wind power is formed, away from the most expensive and thus lowers the market price for electricity. This will have a much greater impact on electricity prices than these much-speaked wind power subsidies. It is therefore justified that we should continue with this support, but it is also justified that it should be carried out on the basis of an auction in the future, as proposed by the government. Finally, Mr President, despite the fact that many decisions have already been taken by the OECD countries on the need to put an end to subsidies for fossil energy, the latest report by the World Energy Agency (IEA) stated that in 2016 fossil subsidies in the world were still USD 260 billion a year. Progress has been made in that they were still 50 billion dollars higher in the world than in the previous year, i.e. downwards has come, the direction is correct, but fossil energy in the world as a whole still enjoys multiple subsidies compared to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u26	Mr President! This energy debate is quite interesting, because these energy markets are such that even experts can no longer know what the price of energy, electricity is at any time. So much of the combined heat and power generation that it is beginning to be in trouble, even because, for example, in building an apartment, we have become an alternative to geothermal heat, which is one of the components of electric heating, and this is, of course, due to the fact that district heating is expensive. If we now reduce the use of peat and possibly increase the price of wood as a result of investments in new bio plants, district heating will become more expensive, so this good Finnish innovation will soon become partially unusable because it is no longer able to compete on the market at the price. This is one of those things that, in a way, directs the practical investment. Another thing about this is when we have winds and when there is no wind and between there is overproduction and sometimes underproduction: we probably have such an impression in many that this deficiency is very high at just high temperatures, minus 30 degrees, but I am not sure what kind of frost Finland had on May 8, when the electricity balance sheet price was at the highest level in history, EUR 2999 megawatt hour — that is, in one hour. 8.5. Apparently there were no very large frosts in Finland. The other thing happened last night. The price of balance-sheet electricity was minus 1000 euros. It was minus 1000 euros per megawatt hour, which means that these throws are great at precisely those times when we are warm and everything should be in order. If anyone can explain to me why these things are happening at any time, it's all right. The second thing is that Olkiluoto 2 suddenly fell out of production. But what caused the other one, I don't know.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u27	Mr President! I am a licentiate of electrical power technology and yet I am unable to respond to these cases, but they also illustrate that in the future — even now but even more so in the future — it is important that we are able to act in such a way that we are intelligently timing the part of electricity consumption that can be passed on without disrupting the actual service that electricity consumption produces. For example, in all houses that are heated by electricity or with an electric ground heat pump, it is not so important for the indoor temperature of the house that the electric radiators function and heat up or the ground heat pump machine rotates as long as the indoor temperature of the house remains suitable. And in the future, when we have a growing amount of production that is not determined by electricity consumption but by other factors, such as whether or not it is shining or winding, it is the smartest thing to schedule all this electricity consumption, the time of which can really be set without suffering the actual purpose. This is what we should do. This is called the smart grid. The Climate Leadership Coalition, which is a consortium of Nordic companies and other organisations with the aim of promoting new climate-friendly solutions, has just today announced to the Nordic governments an appeal for Nordic governments to act in such a way that the Nordic countries become a world leader in the construction of an intelligent electricity network. If it succeeds, then I guess we will see fewer of these extremes, when the momentary price of electricity bounces into the clouds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u28	Mr President! Representative Eestilä here wondered how that volatility is so terribly high in this price. I am not such an expert as to be able to explain it in detail, but the main reason is that the reference price on the electricity market comes through Nord Pool, a joint Nordic electricity exchange in Oslo, Norway. Every day by 12 p.m., invitations to tender and requests for purchase are made there. Offers and purchases are made for each class, 24 hours, from that hour to the next day of 12 p.m., until 24 p.m. When this market, as has become clear both here and in the speeches made by Mr Estilä and some other representatives, there is also the supply side for a number of reasons — there is not just one reason, but there are several reasons why — it has become so volatile and also the daily needs are so much different, the result is that this offer to the market and then how much it is suddenly asked, that is, how much or how little it is suddenly asked, really does not match. That is why these peaks can be high — while the market price may be EUR 40 per megawatt hour two or three days later, then within 24 hours it may be these figures. These are extremely rare, though. It's pretty rare that it's more than 100 euros a megawatt hour, and here it's so much, ten or 100 times over. As far as this renewable change is concerned, although I agree with Mr Hoskonen on almost all matters, I can say that Finland's electricity needs would be met with renewable domestic electricity, it is not possible to do so in the present perspective. We do need other, other forms of energy — unfortunately, we need that nuclear power. Or we may have to rely on such a large amount of wind and also solar power before long. After some time, it may be true: it won't take too long for wind power to come down so fast that it could really take that share of renewable energy, and the price of solar power will probably come down too. Above all, the price of these renewables, winds and solar energy has come down enormously from the level of 2009-2010 — considering that the Government of Katainen estimates that it will then be possible to move forward with a feed-in tariff system from 2009 to 2010 and decided to increase the share of renewable wind by 50 % at that old price. Now we all know how hard the price has come down.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u29	Madam President! Mr Pekkarinen was quite right to point out that although I am defending this domestic energy, of course it will not be able to solve the huge amount of electricity that is in Finland. Of course we need nuclear power, we need hydropower, we need some fossil. Of course we need natural gas energy. All these things we need, but the big thing that I wanted to bring up in my speeches is that when we ourselves have these raw material reserves in this country, no matter how much — it includes wood and peat, hydropower and many more, sun and wind — we need to use these more and more. It is quite clear that when we make ever better products for the world market, fine ships, electrical equipment, anything, we always use more energy. When we go to the store, we demand an ever-better service, an ever-better environment where those services are offered to us, fine shops and others. Everything demands energy, and when the standard of living rises, energy consumption is constantly increasing, and even in this environment, we must ensure that, in our own country, in the event of a crisis, we always have the ability to produce energy ourselves. Of course, we are not completely independent of the outside world, but think of the 40-degree cold day. We have had experience with them in previous years. Then you have to be in the condition of CHP power plants in order to be able to warm up buildings and work normally, because otherwise we will be in a situation that I do not want to think about even in bad nightmares. Domestic energy plays a very important role in this. As Mr Eestilä described in his speech the price of electricity in Nord Pool and Vice-President Pekkarinen's excellent speech supplemented it, indeed, when the Nordic electricity price is determined on the international market in Norway, there is nothing we can do about it, but we can do nothing about it if we are self-sufficient. It will not be decided in Oslo, Norway, fortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u30	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u31	Mr President! This government proposal deals with the amendments to the Criminal Code, which are required by the proposed Act on the establishment of provinces and the organisation of social welfare and health care. It takes a stand on electoral crimes, detentions, and crimes against public finances, all of which would therefore require changes. The Government's proposal is therefore dependent on this other package of social and regional laws, and then there is a need to look at this package a little more broadly, i.e. on the basis of which this will be done, and also on when, if ever. After all, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has recently given the strongest opinion on this whole war, according to its mandate, and has rejected the most important arguments of the government. It strongly points out that savings can no longer be invoked. This is a pretty important observation. So this claim of $3 billion in savings has completely crumbled. Now we are in a situation where no one believes in the savings claim made by this government, and on the contrary, the question is how many billion extra costs are. And, of course, it is absolutely necessary to have an answer to this before we can proceed with this legislation. Otherwise, Parliament will be required to sign an open bill and we will not accept it. The Committee on Finance as a whole gave a very critical opinion, including the government parties, which could not come to any other conclusion than that this social and regional reform should not be carried out and, therefore, this government's proposal 65 would be unnecessary. The Economic Policy Evaluation Council also notes that this assessment has gone beyond ‘murder and assessment’ and this is the main reason for this. So, first of all, when a political decision has been made about the need to establish provinces and, at the same time, another government party says that freedom of choice must be achieved, then there has been no reason for the Ministry of Finance to carry out impact assessments, because the impact assessments do not affect this decision itself, which is locked down without even considering what it is going to cost, and now, at this point, ladies and gentlemen, this billion-dollar crater is to be wondered at this point. Mr President! This government proposal would enter into force ‘as soon as possible’ in order to ensure that the national elections can be held in autumn. It is absolutely impossible to grasp the irresponsible rush that has been associated with such a huge reform. Where does this obsession come from? What is the proper basis for this? Why can we not make the necessary clarifications within a responsible timeframe? Otherwise, it will be the case — and I will say this at the end — that we will be required, in the spirit of changing the criminal law of this government, if not the crime, to at least commit a crime against public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u32	Mr President! This government proposal is part of the government's social welfare package. Technical changes are actually being made here, for example concerning electoral offences and hearing procedures for the custody of children and other necessary amendments to the penal code if the government's social welfare reform is to be adopted. However, it is now important for us to see the connection between this proposal and the rest, to discuss this whole reform of the government. To sum up, in the past week, the government's social media scenes have fallen. We found out last week, here in front of Parliament, the finance minister, Orpo, admitted that the freedom of choice, which was previously justified by the fact that it brings savings, does not bring savings but increases costs, but we do not know how much it increases costs. HUS has recently estimated that it will increase costs by EUR 1 billion. The Minister for Local Government and Reform admitted that the government does not know how to withdraw from the freedom of choice legislation if it has to be withdrawn. So it's a perfect jump to the unknown. And at the end of the week we received this Hetemäe memorandum, on which the Economic Policy Evaluation Council has said perhaps the most striking statement it has ever made on a government proposal, which is also illustrated by the fact that it has exceptionally delivered this opinion on its own initiative, in which it states that ‘the final impact of the social reform on costs may be based on estimates of the same positive negative and ‘these costs cannot be assessed’and that’the adoption orrejection of the reform must be decided on other criteria than the possible effects of the reform on public sector expenditure’. Well, it's good to see you now and, of course, we waited a long time, which is the government's answer. This was achieved today when Prime Minister Sipilä said that ‘this is an old pointless debate’. This debate on thesecosts has led tothe opinionandconfirmedthat‘this is a completely useless This is a totally stunning and arrogant statement from Prime Minister Sipilä. And why is this conversation not useless? Because now that it is clear that these savings will not occur and costs will increase, section 6 of the Regional Finance Act The financial cutter is not going anywhere. In other words, there will be more costs, there will be no savings, and if this government proposal goes through in this way, then the worst fear of all is coming true, that is, these additional costs and future cuts with the financial cutter will be fully implemented in customer fees and future cuts in services. The government's social media scenes have fallen, and it has now become clear that the government's social welfare reform will lead to the cutting of billions and billions of dollars from health services important to Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u33	Mr President! As has been said, this reform of the criminal code, this technical proposal, naturally depends on the whole of the war, its implementation and its timetables. That is why I also think it is very important that we talk about this whole issue once again in this context, and I must say, Mr President, that a very important and big issue was raised by Mr Harakka, who opened the debate, and also by Mr Lindtman, who spoke very loudly. The situation is shocking at the moment, and we are in quite a state of chaos here in relation to this war. As has been said, I fully sign the view that the scenes have fallen by the very latest. The Committee on Finance, in which I myself sit, gave a very, very critical opinion on this, which has also been signed by the government parties. Indeed, I also drew attention to the fact that the Council of State’s Financial Assessment has become a knockout in practice, a knockout in practice of the lack of credible estimates of costs. It is hard, hard language, and it really should be taken seriously. We also have a situation in which we in the Committee on Budgets are dealing with the budgetary framework and, no matter what, we are in a situation where the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has decided that it is not saying anything to us about the framework for public finances, nothing in this situation, when that is what is essential. Of course, from this perspective of the budgetary framework, I am very surprised that we already know that expert assessments tell us that there will be no level in this spending limits level of what the estimated costs will be in the future, and that is why we are in a very strange situation. President! We are on a very weak footing now, and I am very surprised, at least now, if we have heard from the Prime Minister that it is said that this debate is useless. What do you really think of that person at Tammelantori or there in front of the store when we're talking? Yes, at least for myself, the citizens are becoming increasingly, increasingly and constantly asking what the hell is going on there, a little bit scared, and what is going on there. And this conversation would be useless? Mr President, no, it is certainly not. And I would like to see that, because this is such a big issue, an absolutely big issue that affects every citizen's life, the way in which Parliament works and, in a way, this use of time, and everyone else, allow us to have an in-depth debate here. It is quite ferocious to see a reform of this kind and of this size being built on figures from the feather islands.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u34	Mr President! It is really a little strange that the representatives of the government are not very much here to tell us what is dictated by this timetable, which is now the subject of the debate. I should like to add to what Mr Lindtman has just said in that HUS has calculated the cost of freedom of choice to be one billion, but when all other costs are put on it, the figure is 2.5 billion. A hundred experts have been consulted by the Committee on Finance and the vast majority of them, the overwhelming majority, have said that this brings a billion-dollar cost, this is a risk of 2 billion, this is a high risk. And we have asked again and again in the Committee on Budgets what is the response of the Ministry of Finance to these proposals and we have not received it. Or, in fact, we received such a vague memo, which had presented savings potentials, but it was the entire Committee on Finance, including the government parties themselves, that it was so deep that it was not taken up in the opinion of the Committee on Finance. Can you imagine the assessment made by the highest official in the preparatory ministry, which was so foolish that it did not qualify for the statement? In other words, we are still dealing with the question — hopefully the representatives here will be able to answer — that, when we know that there will be additional costs that are not adequately provided for in the budgetary plan for the coming years, which in itself is shameful, which is what is being cut out of the question: whether there will be more customer services or whether the level of services will be reduced. In either case, genuine freedom of choice will not come true. I must join in this astonishment by Prime Minister Sipilä's arrogant comment. He says you just have to believe that there will be savings during the implementation phase. Why, then, do any government proposal or any bill require any impact assessment if, ultimately, everyone is something I believe in in this most important reform, what has been done in recent history, let alone on much smaller issues? And it is incredibly arrogant to say that the debate on the timing of the regional elections is nonsense. The only way I can understand that is by not giving any reasonable reason why we should rush this huge reform, which we see has not even been calculated with a billion accuracy, is total nonsense that the regional elections will take place next autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u35	Mr President! This debate actually reflects quite well this state of affairs in the government's social welfare reform. Every day there is new information, criticism, new information that previous government speeches have proved to be either complete nonsense or, in fact, quite the opposite of what has been said in the past, but the government parties are silent in two languages. The silence in which the representatives of the government party are in this Chamber shouts at the ears. Here are the leaders of the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u38	Mr President! This seems to be the case because we want to hold the regional elections and we want to make this original cow trade a reality, which was done at the time, and everyone knows that the coalition was given the so-called freedom of choice it wanted, that is to say, this market model and the centre of the regional government. This is exciting because it seems that a lot of people do not think that today is wise or even possible — note. Even if it were possible — that the elections would be held in the autumn and yet still here we are still referring from the Prime Minister to the fact that it would be nonsense to discuss them. President! All in all, I do, of course, respect all the representatives of the government who are now here in the Chamber. It's respectable. But as has been mentioned here before, the fact that the government parties do not want to discuss this, many leading politicians are happy to leave the Chamber, also tells the harsh truth that we are dealing with in this House at the moment. President! Now would be a very good opportunity to say together that we should give this debate the time it requires. From the point of view of Parliament's authority, it would also be wise for us to demand clearer cost estimates, impact assessments, all this. It is quite impossible to think about it when experts say that this model is going to result in the fact that, because the costs have not been provided with sufficient intensity, customer charges will sooner or later increase or services will be cut. No citizen will want that, especially in view of the fact that this was justified on the contrary. This is shocking. This will be the case, ladies and gentlemen of the government, exactly the opposite of the original idea of war. It was that services are improving and cost savings and efficiency are generated, and now it seems to be the other way around. Inequality will increase, the decision-makers in the provinces will find themselves in a very difficult situation, and the cost level will also rise. That is why, Mr President, I would like to say once again that it is time for Parliament to return to the normal order of things in this respect and to forget this kind of urgency and then for the government parties to see that this kind of reform cannot be carried forward on this timetable and with this content.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u39	Irade the Talman! Somehow, instead of saying that the group chairmen of the government parties came out and said that Parliament will not leave for a summer break until a decision has been taken on this, instead of being pushed through by such a majority in the cow trade, I would perhaps like to see an exit that the war will not be voted on until these economic assessments have been carried out, until it has been verified that the objectives are met, that care will improve, that the economic objectives will be met. We got some kind of paper out of this now, didn't we? The saving potential of freedom of choice was zero. If somewhere the potential is zero, then that automatically means that it increases costs. There were 4 billion potential savings in the use of information and technology, but there is nothing in this model that would facilitate the use of information and technology compared to the current situation. Minister Sipilä again appealed to existing social models today, Eksote and these. In fact, they are much better than what has been presented here. The separation of the subscriber and the producer makes it impossible, for example, to introduce Apot on the whole of Uusimaa. However, the apot, which now has some hundreds of millions sunk into it and which would be an enormously good tool for achieving integration, for facilitating the flow of information, will not be able to get it through in its entirety. Professor Lavapuro said that elections cannot be held on this schedule. The Chancellor of Justice said that they cannot be kept on this schedule. If such authorities do not convince me, I wonder. This is not nonsense. This is not nonsense. They are just relevant concerns that matter when the biggest reform in Finland's history is being carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u40	Mr President! What really matters, then, is the timetable by which these urgent criminal law reforms should be taken forward in this government proposal. There is still no basis for rushing this without meaningful impact assessments, as Mr Adlercreutz has well said. He gave good advice to the chairmen of the parliamentary groups of the government parties. I would like to add this to the fact that, exceptionally, the opposition parties agreed, all six opposition parties are on the sidelines, who certainly have very different views as to what the content of the social welfare reform or the future social and health service reform should be. The RKP and the Left Alliance will probably have a different idea of it, as well as the Finns and the Greens, but we all agreed on it and we made a difference of opinion on it to the opinion of the Committee on Finance, which is already extremely critical and absolutely crushing, that it is totally irresponsible to move forward on this issue. What, then, is an even stronger expression of this: it is disastrously irresponsible to proceed in such a hurry. As many constitutional experts have already said, there are no conditions for holding these elections this autumn, so could we now respect Parliament's authority and act in a meaningful process? Otherwise, this whole government proposal and the way this thing is trodden here in Parliament is total nonsense.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u41	Mr President! If you try to sum up the situation in which we are now, then the situation is that when the government itself has said that the government's social and regional reform is the reform of the century and the most important reform of this government, and the Prime Minister has announced that if it does not go ahead, there will be new elections — that is where we can agree that if this goes through, it will be the reform of the century — now, in the last few days, in the last week, you can say, no more or less, this reform has dropped the ground.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u44	Madam President! Indeed, this government proposal 65 will be brought here to Parliament for consideration as a technical amendment law, which is an accompanying law to this big social package. In fact, this bill, although human in number of these pages, conceals a lot of content. It introduces important changes, for example, to the current rule on the prosecution and hearing of the child's arbitrary custody. Today, therefore, the Social Security Board must be consulted before taking this decision. It is now proposed that this consultation be carried over to the provinces and directed to the board of directors. Of course, it is not possible to question in advance the professionalism of the board of directors or the composition of a business firm, but it is necessary to worry about whether the reference in the board of directors is sufficient to make such a decision. Can it happen that, for example, costs guide decisions? Care is always heavy, both in terms of cost and, above all, in terms of individual influences. It is important that this law should take into account how it has been established whether cooperation with the governments of different regional businesses on these issues of child protection is possible, how well it is possible to exchange information, as it is likely that there will be children who have moved several times and that the best expertise will be within the other province. Among other things, this needs to be clarified very carefully, because it is necessary to regulate precisely so that the legal protection of children is not jeopardised. And equally important are the issues of criminal responsibility. It is now proposed that this criminal liability be extended to private operators. On the public side, however, this extension does not take place to the same extent. There is a clear inconsistency here that has implications for the legal protection of people and individuals. This is essentially linked to consumer protection issues. These big changes therefore relate to this big social package, which has been marked by haste. We in the Committee on Legal Affairs received the government's proposals on 15 and 16 Tuesday last week, and the chairman of the committee has promised that they might be coming out of the committee this week. I would like this criminal law to receive a thorough, proper procedure, which is not a matter of urgency, so that the members of the committee will have the opportunity to invite experts for personal consultation and to make in-depth legislation when it comes to such a big issue. It's been too much of a rush.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u45	Madam President! I myself have been allowed to sit as a member of the Administrative Committee, as a member of our Committee on Local Government, since 2011 and to follow the good efforts of the previous government to bring about social and health reform in Finland, including regional reform, and also to see how the reform did not go to the finish line but, despite our good collective efforts, fell in the final stages. Now the government has started a new attempt, and, as has been pointed out in several speeches before, this reform of the century seems to be seriously watering down already at this stage of preparation to the information that these billions of dollars will not be saved. The cutters will take care of the drop in service level and possibly even the drop in availability. However, I personally find it very worrying that, even now in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, we must make statements at such a speed that it is frightening, especially when the content does not speak out in favour of the government's proposal. The last time we discussed the opinion on freedom of choice, there was one expert who was on the side of the government's proposal from dozens of experts consulted during the expert consultation. This same expert was one of the experts who had been writing the motion. If the intention is to actually consult experts in Parliament in the drafting of the law, in accordance with the value of parliamentary work, then not only should the consultation be listened to, so that the opinions and reports which are passed through by the majority in the committees, i.e. by the government. I regard this situation as intolerable and I am in the same line as a member of the Administrative Committee, as a representative of the Parliament and as a decision-making body in that this is not the way to proceed. The Parliament must have all the information it can to make its own decision. If the right of individual parliamentarians to do these things is constrained by party political reasons, I consider the situation to be intolerable. I also find it intolerable that the Minister of Local Government Vehviläinen here in Question Time said loudly that the change leaders of the regional reform have said that nothing but pass — everything is fine, pass. I asked one change director: at least not on his side has such a mandate been given to the Minister. Of course, we can use political rhetoric and say that some of the leaders of change have said this, but I do not think it is appropriate to put words in the mouth of others in this context either. When I myself asked this change leader in the presence of more than one, the answer was clear: ‘What about the power of attorney from our province?’ This parliamentary process resembles an active model process — as many representatives of the government parties are present.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u46	Mr President! In fact, Mr Kymäläinen, a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, quite well described the content of this proposal. There are very important things here, however, and I think it is even crazy to think that, before we know whether or not the war will go to the finish line — hopefully it will not — or because or so on, then things would be quietly accepted here that would perhaps not be enough to understand the content. I would also refer here to Mr Kari's speech, in which he again described the situation in the Administrative Committee, where opinions are given. Again, when you consider that there are changes and things within this law relating to the custody of children, that requires a particularly careful consultation and careful attention, and it would certainly be a good idea for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to say that too. But what is the situation there? By the government parties, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health does not even give an opinion on the budgetary framework, which is absolutely essential in this particular situation, when most of that framework will be made up of this war in the years to come. In other words, this is an intolerable situation from the point of view of the various committees. And, of course, from the point of view of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I personally take a strong view of this. What is remarkable is that I do not remember such a critical statement from my own Committee on Budgets, which the entire committee makes about these cost implications and, in fact, that they are not known or not accurately assessed, and, worst of all, they may be in the opposite direction. This is also exceptional in itself, that this kind of hardness is in the opinion, which has also been accepted by the government parties. So, President, in these words, I would like to see this debate, at least somewhere in the house, listened to the representatives of the government parties and then, for a part, think about the conclusions from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u47	Madam President! I would like to continue with that extension of the responsibilities of the private sector. This particular observation in committee work must also show who will monitor the implementation of the responsibilities or the absence of malpractice. What role does the police play here, or who is the supervising authority? And when this is extended and someone has to supervise, the question goes to resources: Has there been sufficient provision for other costs, whether it be the police or what? How are resources taken into account here? This exercise can go a lot wrong. This is one part of the big picture. A lot of things in this small part are relevant to the legal provisions that can then be found in the big bricks. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we do not have the resources and opportunities to study separately every aspect of child protection and other related issues within 15 and 16 and other related proposals. But I would hope that good legislation will guarantee that there will be someone who will be able to familiarise themselves with these, that there will be no mistakes in these, as mentioned above in relation to this active model. It forced the model through in a hurry and promised to follow, but already that period of follow-up was fatal for many, 90,000 Finns in fact. And now that corrective measures are being taken, there is a risk that more and more of these will be fatal before the legislation can be amended in line with the correction of these most flagrant shortcomings in the active model. But when it comes to war, it's about spirit and life. That is why it is important for us to make precise interfaces with legislation, to make careful preparations and to shoulder the responsibility that we have been given to those who work in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u48	Mr President! It is quite easy, however, to agree with today's criticism of the risks associated with the implementation of the regional and social reform, which have also been repeatedly expressed by officials and other experts. Regrettably, the government parties do not seem to have anything to do with these expert opinions. The worst of all is the urgency with which this reform is now being carried forward by brutal force. On the other hand, this questionable way forward over the last few weeks has led, among other things, to the cracks and tears in the ranks of the government parties. We'll see what's coming. Furthermore, last week, in Question Time, we also heard from the Minister that the government has not even thought about how to address these shortcomings after the possible entry into force of the reform and correct those which inevitably always appear in such major reforms. It is therefore extremely worrying that no contingency plan exists. Mr President! According to last week's recent official memo, the greatest benefit of this social welfare reform would come from the exploitation of digitalisation. This would result in savings of around EUR 4 billion, which Mr Adlercreutz also raised in his recent speech, but it is indeed very questionable that these savings would not be achieved otherwise, without this very complicated reform. Of course, technological progress is progressing in any case. It has nothing to do with this government policy. Reference has also been made here to the savings potential of freedom of choice legislation, which, according to the official's memo, is no more than EUR zero. It is likely that the increase in expenditure will only increase; no one knows how great it is. Mr President! Indeed, opposition parties have worked together, including in the Committee on Finance. In addition, it was mentioned here that the views of the various opposition parties are somewhat different in terms of reform, inevitably differ from one party to another, but there is still a common concern: what is the government in such a hurry to drive Finland? Will it lead us to a new economic crisis, and will it weaken health services so much that they will weaken and no longer be available in all parts of Finland? Mr President! Unfortunately, it seems very strongly that this reform is a matter of power policy, which has already been revealed in the statements of Prime Minister Sipilä, who has promoted himself to be a relevant politician in his speeches. He has repeatedly threatened his government partners with new elections,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u49	Madam President! Today, when one part of this major social and health reform is dealt with in Parliament, it may seem that the talk of the whole of the swamps falling is too big for this particular issue. But this great social war consists of individual matters, to which Mr Viitanen referred very well in his own speech, and this scale for this social and health reform comes from Prime Minister Sipilä's speeches: the reform of the century. I myself have compared this with the Helsinki Parliaments of 1863, when the municipality and the parishes were separated from each other and the municipal democracy such as the present was built, the municipal self-government and the rights attached to it, but also the responsibilities attached to it. Now, with this May heat wave, this reform is breaking down the legislative reforms in the parliamentary committees at the rate to which I referred just now, the feeling that the decaying moon has moved from July to May to this heat wave and has caused this government's proposal to spoil. The professors have also made good reference to this in various contexts. The figures are missing — or in addition to the fact that they do not exist, as I have already pointed out, the cutters are still feeding on the resources of the municipalities. But I am also concerned about this parliamentary committee work. Of course, it is neither exceptional nor unique that the number of committees' work has been increased by increasing the number of extra committees, but I am concerned about the spirit with which it is carried out. Among other things, in one committee where I myself am, we were given a hint that these committee meetings do not have to come if they do not fit in with the timetables, there are only hearings here. You don't have to decide anything. There's just hearings. For me, hearing is, personally, a parliamentary act, like deciding things and one important part of that process. It cannot be said that if the committee does not agree with Parliament's Rules of Procedure or with the timetables of its representatives, it is not necessary to be here. Yes, I think it is. I wanted this to be recorded in these Parliament documents in 2018 just to leave a mark of the importance of this parliamentary work. Although speeches in an empty room do not always seem significant, the decisions are in fact important. In December last year, an active model was decided in this Chamber. At that time, the active model was brought to the House on Friday for an extraordinary sitting at 4.30 p.m., an extra so that there were only 13 MPs present, no ministers present, no media present, on a very urgent schedule. I then made a proposal to leave the active model on the table at the next plenary session on Monday. At that time there were 150 MPs, two ministers and the entire Finnish media. I hope that this debate, which is taking place in this Chamber today, will receive the relevant attention, because the people will remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u50	Mr President! On this whole and on these savings. Why is that so essential? Because it has actually been the last thing, that is, the government's last argument to move this reform forward when clearly other objectives are not being fulfilled. This was justified by the fact that this would improve access to treatment. It has now become clear that this will not happen. Then it was originally justified by the fact that it reduces inequalities. It has now become clear that this does not reduce inequalities in health but increases them. Finally, it has been said that this must be done because of these savings. Last time, in Prime Minister’s interview with the Finnish Broadcasting Company, the Prime Minister stated: ‘There is now criticism that 3 billion goals will be met. The Financial Act has ensured that savings are realised.’ Like this. She said, "I don't know." What does this mean? Well, that means that now that it is clear that in all cases the sign of this government's century reform is not a minus but a plus mark in these savings, and this savings of 3 billion will not come to fruition, that is, now that there are these additional costs, whatever they are — if they are estimated by HUS to be 2.5 billion, then the 2.5 billion plus the intended savings, for which we have no estimate of whether or not it will come to pass, over 5 billion — and now according to this Prime Minister's statement, and as is the case here in the Government's proposal, this Article 6 of the Finance Act, to take care of it, however, cost cuts of less than 3 billion, and here lies ahead in the provinces, if this goes through, cuts of over 5 billion, i.e. more than 5 billion cuts in social services. It is so huge that Finnish health care and the rights of Finnish residents and patients are by no means the same. It is clear, at the latest, that the reform in this form represents so much more risks than it is thought to be new, that it is completely irresponsible to take this reform in this form on this timetable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u51	Madam President! For my part, I will not go any further than this, but when I referred to the active model debate where there was at some point one representative of the government party — I think there were a change between the parties — but now that there are as many as four representatives of the two main government parties present, I would have asked Mr Lindtman, referring to his good speech: if we decided to have this social welfare exercise in the future, if there were to be a billion-dollar cut-off list, then, in any case, this reality has already been opened up to you representatives of the government parties, and if so, could you open up to us? In the opposition, this information does not exist yet. I hope that this issue will be asked again, hopefully by next Thursday at the latest, what position the municipalities will be forced to take with this social reform. Up to now, in terms of services, the municipalities have played a somewhat subdued role in relation to the state, when legislation is, of course, being adopted here, but if, through the social welfare reform, the last power of the municipalities to carry out tasks is also being carried out here in the state agencies, then this list of cuts to which Mr Lindtman referred in his speech is in front of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u52	President! That is the big thing: in practice, in the future, if this were to happen, the municipal and provincial decision-makers will be in a very helpless position. The government defines the frame and then forces it to cut down on services, and the model is also very perverse in that respect. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I really hope that, if you do not want to take part in this debate here and now, you will at least think about it and have serious debates in your own parliamentary groups. That is usually what happens when we begin to talk here in the opposition about the fact that there will then also be more people from the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u55	Madam President! Indeed, it is good to continue with this debate: who is concerned about the state of legislation, the state of this preparation at the moment? At least I myself have a deep concern about the way these important legal provisions are dealt with in the committees. The fact that there is, in principle, a week or even less automatically seems to be the number to be heard. When we were in the opposition last week in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, everything happened, but everything happened only in writing. We did not even have the opportunity to have a patient ombudsman or a social ombudsman present for consultation, even though we are talking about such an important issue that affects people's legal security. I would like the members of the government and the government to be concerned that we can get through proper legislation and proper preparation, which would not be marked by this merciless rush and timetable. However, on the specifics of this law itself, I was thinking that it is important in committee to pay attention to the legal protection of people, even in matters such as the fact that this future proposal for social services is now firmly based on the use of customer vouchers. They're being expanded. At present, service vouchers or customer vouchers — whatever name we want to use — are used in many medical districts, but already there have been shortcomings where individuals have been billed for up to 500 euros past that customer voucher. I was thinking that as this model expands now with this presentation, there will also be an increase in the number of possibilities that individuals, people, customers will experience this kind of flaws. That is why it is important that we consider that legislation in so far as there is legal certainty for people, as this amendment to the penal code includes certain articles, if such matters are to be covered by the mark of fraud. I want to believe that even the members of the board have the will to get good from this law and those who serve people. This is such a big exercise, the biggest package in Finland's 100-year history. It would be sad to see in a few years' time that a lot of people fell from the journey and the ride, and we would re-start a huge process and try to change this big picture that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u56	Mr President! Sote also speaks in those tents and squares of the Finns, and the citizens are concerned. As Members have said, the reform is enormous. There is a common understanding that measures must be taken, reform must be made in order to be able to influence the growth of the increasing social and health expenditure. But the actions must be controlled. This crazy rush and rush is worrying. The committees, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are currently sitting from morning to evening. We should be ready in June. This is actually quite irresponsible of us to go in such a hurry. I hope, government: take things so seriously and responsibly and leave these party politics a little less. You take a time-out, a gradual process of social welfare reform, so that it is possible that the outcome will then be reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u57	Mr President! I was looking at the statistics on these speeches and found that this is already 21. The speech that is being made here today on this subject. It is quite exceptional that no representative of the government parties has yet given a single speech on this very important whole in this plenary today. The situation is very, very confusing, given that it is, at least, an historic major social reform, a revolution, and I hope it does not go so far as to have to use stronger terms for this. On the other hand, of course, I am not surprised that the representatives of the government parties present have not spoken. This is certainly not an easy task; there are so many problems with this proposal, the whole reform of the social and regional sectors. There are at least a few representatives of the government parties still here, four of them at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u60	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u61	Mr President! On that previous point: we discussed the Government's proposal 65 on the amendment of the penal code, and I would like to thank Mrs Kymäläinen for her speech on a very well-informed matter. Now we are dealing with the Government proposal 66. This is related to the establishment of the Innovation Finance Agency Business Finland and Business Finland at the beginning of the year. It is now quite reasonable that the names of these companies should also be changed into legislation. In other words, six laws will be amended here, which will be amended by the Innovation Centre Business Finland and Business Oy, and the necessary information will also be granted to Business Finland Oy. Very important legislation. This will continue the development path by which we will be able to streamline innovation and business activities, including exports and innovation technology.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u62	Madam President! This bill is extremely good. It is not for a small nation to decentralise the stakes, but rather to concentrate and do the work that is being done together and to try to be good in those areas that are our strengths. However, such a small nation as Finland is not able to cope in every place. Let's make this Business Finland so good now and the associated limited company so good that it can genuinely work for the Finnish export trade. Last night, when I drove home from an event, I heard on the radio how Finland’s exports are currently being carried out with enormous force, so that even port workers are said to be in some kind of shortage at the moment in a few ports. The export industry has started to grow strongly, and now we must ensure that, even in the coming years, Business Finland will be able to operate in a secure way, precisely so that it is the export trade that this country is able to keep up. It is an old truth that by washing each other's shirts we do not get very rich, but once we get this foreign trade speed, it is immediately visible in Finnish employment and, above all, in the state of public finances, which is rapidly improving. Of course, we are not yet in the position we should be able to reach, but that is where we are going. Eight years went the wrong way, now we're going the right way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u63	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 9/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u64	Madam President! The purpose of this is to abolish the deadline for the payment of projects related to broadband construction in sparsely populated areas. This is a small change, but this is a very big change in the sense that we can use these broadband funding even later, after 2019. After all, Sipilä’s government already granted relief for broadband construction in market areas, i.e. sparsely populated areas, by reducing this own-account journey. Almost to the wall of the house, broadband networks can already be imported as fibre, among other things. This is very important for rural areas to have these same business opportunities and many others that are ours in rural areas, including international exports and common exchange of information. The fibre networks are also important in the sense that we can build 5G technology through them and strengthen 4G in areas where it does not work. In other words, this strong broadband network must also be the backbone of the mobile network. There is, however, concern that these active actors in sparsely populated areas do not necessarily take responsibility for its construction. Even if there was a desire and a need for broadband and possibly funding, I would somehow inspire these different players, because here there is still funding to build these new broadband projects. It is also very important from the point of view of our rural services. If you think that you can live in your own home later and longer, the use of health care reception and other technologies and analyses will also make it possible to use this new health care structure. I would also like to take into account that once these broadband networks have been set up, this will also help to preserve the value of real estate in these areas. This amendment to this law is also justified from the point of view that, when we also have these projects, that electricity is put on the ground and that a weather-proof electricity grid is made, we can then use these same ditches to build a fibre network and at the same time put these fibre networks at the same time. Coordination will also allow for a longer period of planning and implementation of these projects than after this 2019. This is an excellent report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u65	Madam President! Broadband construction in sparsely populated areas is extremely important. We all know that communications links to agriculture, among other things, are absolutely essential. Agriculture has developed strongly and there is a need for good communication connections, and against that background, these objectives of the excellent Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government Programme are very good and the building of a business growth environment through digital business is very welcome. In line with this committee's proposal, this abolition of time limits for payment applications will change and facilitate the strict timetable for the implementation of projects and is a very good thing. I would just like to point out whether the fact that there are currently quite a few projects in Finland that have been carried out in part, but those limited companies or cooperatives are in some major difficulties, and whether it has been taken into account that they could also be supported in accordance with this proposal. I cannot exactly open it in this committee's report, but I know that in North Karelia, for example: The municipality of Rääkkylä is facing great difficulties in this regard. It would also be important for society to continue to be involved in securing the operational capacity of some of the networks built, because otherwise it makes no sense for them to remain inactive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u66	Madam President! All projects and means to facilitate the use of broadband, as is done in this government proposal, are welcome. This allows remote work, enables knowledge sharing, various services. Banking is one example, but cultural services, for example, are another. Broadband is something that printing or reading skills were once. It is a heart-to-heart infra, where Finns should be at the forefront. In the same context, it is worth recalling that broadband enables the use of different digital services, but one million Finns need support to learn digital skills. More than a quarter of a million people over the age of 60 have never used the Internet, and this does pose a major challenge for libraries, adult education centres and liberal education, and it is worth investing in in the future that the ageing population will also be involved in development.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u67	Mr President! This broadband project for rural areas as a whole is very important and welcome. I am grateful that this business has been put on the move in the past. This will ensure that the resources of Finland as a whole are made available. In other words, Finland is extremely rich in its many qualities, and our natural resources are fine and all the same, so we will certainly continue to have many jobs in Finland. The important thing is that the connections remain in order. Road transport is important to us, all networks are important, and broadband is one of these most important networks, which we absolutely must be in order to mobilise the whole of Finland. And this will also enable us to safeguard our constitutional right that everyone may choose his place of residence, to live where he wishes. We in the Committee on Transport and Communications have dealt with this issue, and it was wonderful to note that there was a truly unanimous view that this should be taken forward. After all, this bill is only about the money that has already been decided, which means that this money has already been earmarked, and when this money has not been spent by the deadline and will not be used by the deadline, it will then be possible to use it properly in the time available. In rural areas, it has been slow to deal with these issues, because there has been a need to establish a cooperative or another system for making this broadband funding and to tell people what the whole thing is about, why society does not start building for them, why they have to start doing all these things. How do we go from here? These cooperatives must definitely be helped or other organisations that have applied for this funding. They may need to be combined. We have to see how they may become municipal activities, or we have to look at other possibilities. I hope that this project will continue after that too, and although we are talking here about rural projects, many agglomerations will also need help in these matters. After all, this project is intended to cover areas where there is no market-based activity, but it seems that if we are to make these services available to Finland as a whole, we may have to do more loosely than that, so that all Finns can actually have access to broadband services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u68	Madam President! This amendment to the Broadband Act is extremely good. It is precisely in this report that sense has been taken into account, and we have thought of it as a joviolist, so that, in accordance with the existing law, the money will be put to maximum use so that an application for funding can be made even later, and I think that the time has come to the end of this year for these new projects to be applied for. In the municipality of Ilomantsi, my municipality of residence, this broadband network was built a few years ago, and I know from experience that it is a great effort but absolutely worthwhile. In this broadband debate, when we discuss optical fibre technology, I am surprised at the debate when we talk with a loud voice about the ability of the wireless network to satisfy its need. That's not true. In many cases, I have visited municipalities where this wireless network has been developed in rural areas, and in practice the speed at which it works when it's rush hour is about to be able to do normal things on a mobile phone, but where broadband, fast connection, is not possible. So, in practice, this technology, the fibre technology, is such that the wireless connections that play well across Finland absolutely require that there is a fibre connection between these link masts. Otherwise, the technique won't play properly. It is the first limit value that needs to be exceeded in order to make the broadband network, usually these wireless connections play. But then, if trade is made, planning is done, for example, if there is an engineering agency or construction agency or any municipality, store, bank, pharmacy, perhaps the most typical type of metal machine that uses these CAD programs, then they are such huge databases that without optical fibre connection, if you fall on a wireless network, it will not work at all. And the thing we all know about, paying bills through remote access: if you do it with wireless broadband alone, it happens to be rush hour, even though at the same time the Swedish-Finland hockey game begins, when people rush into the Internet, it means that wireless broadband will not work out of the job when there are so many users and there is no free lane anymore. That is why I hope, Mr President, that, in the context of this excellent law, which is now being taken forward in the form of a report and which will achieve a sensible result in this report, the future Structural Funds period in this country — whoever the next Minister is, the Minister for Economic Affairs of the next government or the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, because this is a very small area of activity — to the European Union in these cohesion funds such as the article that these cohesion funds could be used for the construction of broad lines throughout the country. There is no better development project than building fast optical fibre connections across the country. This is a completely competitively neutral project, even if it is a single cottage granny using that broadband, i.e. watching television. After all, we're about to end the digital network. This is why I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u69	Madam President! Indeed, a good road network and broadband connections are vital to the Finnish countryside, and we also have metal companies and other businesses in the provinces who need this broadband network for their business life. Indeed, the objective of this scheme has been to promote the construction of broadband networks in areas where it is difficult to build this network solely on commercial grounds. And indeed, although substantial use has been made and aid has been granted of EUR 55.8 million, there is less than EUR 20 million of non-granted aid. This is now being extended so that applications for support for new projects can be submitted by the end of 2018, but, if necessary, later. This is significant in the sense that these projects will still be mobilised. I'm also a fiber optic man. Even if we already have a wireless network, 5G, there is a shark — when it works with 3G and 4G — it would be good — so, above all, I would say that, when we talk about streaming entertainment and other things that fill this network, we really need fiber optics, and that is very important for its work and business capacity. We did indeed have a unanimous report on this in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and I am pleased that this extension has now been received. I do not know exactly how to help these companies in difficulty. This aid is mainly for new companies, for new broadband projects, but it must show the future, for example for regions, whether it will then have the capacity to help these existing broadband companies that are already in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u70	Mr President! I wanted to say a few more words about the difference between wireless broadband and fixed broadband networks. Wireless broadband is all right in itself, but you can say that it is a bit like a toy, that is, when you want to work in the right way and be equal in the whole country, we have to have the right kind of broadband. I am one of the happy people who have come to live in a remote area with this kind of real broadband. I can say it now from my own experience that my children are absolutely equal children with all the other children in Finland who live in urban areas or anywhere in the world, because my children are connected everywhere. They get all the know-how, education, know-how, connections everywhere, and it's all because of this real broadband. I really hope that we will make it possible for all Finns to live on an equal footing. So, what's the next step? In the future, I hope that, very quickly, a new project will be planned during the next term of government, how to start doing this, so that proper services can be made available everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u71	Mr President! As Mr Alatalo has just begun, broadband and roads are the most important connection network in rural areas, and that is how it is. To those broadband funding, I would add that there is now scope for funding here, also through this government's own funding, and also through Leader funding. These sources of funding have since gone through the Ely Centre. I hope for their combination and flexibility in it. Another thing that has been a bottleneck has been to get permission to build these broadband structures. Then, for example, the price of licences on the roadside has also increased considerably, bringing additional costs and thus also harmed them. I also hope for this funding, but also for these Leader and other sources of funding, such flexible treatment, of course, within the framework of the law, but the officials have the courage to make big decisions. These broadband projects are multi-million-dollar projects where regional companies or regional communities take a significant risk when building them. Of course, the residents are still involved. This proposal to abolish this deadline is indeed excellent, even after the so-called closing date for funding has expired.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u72	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 10/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u73	Madam President! This proposal proposes to amend the law on crews and ship safety management, including the Law on Maritime Labour Contracts, and to repeal the old law on the listing of crews. The proposal implements the Government Programme’s key project to streamline the regulations. The proposal proposes to reduce the regulatory burden by exempting ships of less than 500 gross tonnage operating in domestic transport areas I and II from the obligation to apply for an occupation certificate and a manning certificate. For these ships, the manning certificate would be replaced by the general minimum manning requirements to be adopted by a Government decree. A pilot licence granted by the Transport Safety Agency for manning and changing guards would promote the pilots related to the automation of shipping. There has been a lot of talk about the fact that one day we will also have self-directed vessels, and that is what we are already preparing for. These would, of course, be derogations from minimum manning and guarding in a restricted area of domestic traffic on a Finnish ship. All in all, of course, this is intended to make this ship's crew and safety management more flexible overall.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u74	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 5/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u75	Madam President! This Government proposal defines which body will be responsible for the management of the eco-label in Finland. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has therefore dealt with this issue and it is, in itself, a matter of no dispute and unanimity. The only person who has asked a question about this is Mr Pirttilahti, and I think he too will agree with you quite a bit. It's so common: We have a lot of different eco-labels in use. There is an EU Ecolabel, which is 25 years old and is dealt with here, is the Nordic Swan brand, is the Key Flag, and so away. Of course, for the consumer, the situation may be challenging, because it may be difficult to always understand what kind of sign contains, what kind of promises, what criteria are to be included, and so away. So it does set its own requirements for information and education. Of course, it is important for companies to ensure that the labels will continue to be accessible to small businesses without excessive costs, bureaucracy and reporting. The objective is a good one, but it must not become too much of a burden. The second aspect is that I would consider eco-labels to be such a voluntary instrument: they can be included or not. The company itself will decide whether or not to participate in a product bearing a label. From the company’s point of view, this kind of sign must of course have a little such a selling edge that it involves factors that attract the customer. Indeed, the committee's report is unanimous and, in itself, uncontroversial, so that only from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u76	Madam President! As Mr Kiuru said, this matter was unanimous in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and the basis of this label is excellent. Sustainable development and, in particular, strong attention to environmental issues is sought here, and these labels are generally granted only to these best products and services. It will also encourage manufacturers to then make environmentally sound products and contribute to these objectives. These criteria are always more stringent than the official criteria normally given to the authorities themselves, and this is, of course, a voluntary sign. I myself have once been an organic entrepreneur, I had an organic Leppäker, and it has the same basis as here, which means that the producer must have responsibility for its own production and self-control, but it is also controlled from outside to meet the criteria that are noted to it. From the consumer's point of view, we have a lot of signs, but if, as in this label, there is a public authority base and there is also a strong legal basis, this Ecolabel base, then I would see that when you go to trade and find these products, then they come from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u77	Madam President! It is good that this management of eco-labelling in Finland will continue to be concentrated on one company which, as a single coordinator, will ensure that the activities of the companies or operators that have applied for this label comply precisely with the quality requirement. What is bad about these labels — for example, on the domestic food side, when domestic food has been praised as good food, and that is what it is on top of the last one — is the fact that, unfortunately, in many of these cases, the labelling which then comes into these packages is not entirely clear. I myself bought Finnish cheese here last summer, but a more accurate study showed that it was a very domestic-looking package, but the product had been imported from Holland, and it was praised for how good it was. Hopefully, in this jungle of different brands, someone will be born of reason, so that these eco-labels really mean that it is an environmentally friendly product or service that the customer buys. It must not be as it has been in this food sector that, in principle, we have lost a great deal of the market. Finnish food has lost its competitive edge when all these signs come, and the consumer is out again like a snowman, that is a good product or a bad product for his health and well-being. As an example, I can mention the bad impact of the European Union, for example, the disappearance of the country of origin of different products. When I was looking at the new tires, where they were made, it was, yes, that they were produced in the EU, but nowhere was there where they were made. I'm a little upset about that. In this way you would think that in this kind of time, what we live in, in modern technology, clothes, tires, food, wherever you would find a clear marking, where this product is made and who has done it. For example, we are asking farmers for absurd precision in this regard. All things have to be recorded many times, many times, and it may be safe, if there is no small entry in the books, it will be terrible sanctions, but when the company sells 35 million tires, it does not matter where they are made. This illustrates the diversity of its different characters and markings: how sometimes some of them are deceived by consumers, and then some of these labels are even punished. This situation with regard to these different quality labels is completely unclear, but I hope that this will lead to the most sensible results. After all, this does not open up to Europe for us, except that Finland is more active in the EU and drives systems that are reasonable and clear, and when a customer buys a product or service, he knows what to buy and does not cheaply buy what I as a cheese buyer last summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u78	Mr President! In connection with this EU Ecolabel, I would also like to raise the issue of domestic food production. Often, when you look at these markings, they are very small, you almost have to take a magnifying glass. It is a very good thing that there is now a labelling and that many products already have antibiotic-free broiler, pig, domestic. It is also very important for the consumer to know the origin and how this food has been produced. Also, if animals have been treated very well, such a general sign should be given, which immediately shows that the animals are treated particularly well and the production is very ethical. But in this context there is indeed that domestic food and its antibiotic freedom, and when we produce pork, pigs are allowed to keep their pigtails. Compared to many other countries in the EU, this competitive situation is not right at the moment if we are thinking of Finnish producers. They are suffering because many producers in other EU countries are cutting off pigs and animals have not been treated very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u79	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u80	Mr President! The recession in the 1990s was extremely hard for the Finnish state and a significant part of our households. The debt grew rapidly, and many lost their entire fortune. In many cases, falling debts were caused by loss of jobs, an explosion in interest rates, a currency loan or guarantee liabilities that fell to be paid for one reason or another. Indeed, many were overly indebted, even though their own finances had been handled well on top of the last one, perhaps too naive, except for the guarantee of the loan. Not everyone has survived the attacks of the '90s recession to this day. For years the so-called old parties have been talking about helping the victims of the recession, but practical measures have been more modest than words. As a result of the recession and mass unemployment, many people, as well as entrepreneurs, who have provided guarantees for another person’s debt, were faced with major financial difficulties. Now there is a lot of positive talk about entrepreneurship. However, we must not forget entrepreneurs who have been in trouble in the '90s. With the recession, we Finns have tried to raise the issue of those in debt to the wallpaper and have prepared a number of parliamentary measures in order to bring some relief to the victims of the recession. At the presidential elections, Laura Huhtasaari raised this issue. It was discussed for a while, but now, unfortunately, it is beginning to be forgotten again. Yes, we still have a large number of Finns in 2018 who are suffering from the personal financial discipline that arose during the recession of the 1990s. Already over 25 years have passed since the onset of the recession, and thousands of Finns are still in debt as a result of this recession. Is it finally and finally high time to offer amnesty and a helping hand to these victims of the recession? In my bill I propose to amend Article 10a of the Private Debt Scheme Act. The debt facility could be granted on the basis that debt has been incurred as a result of the recession of the 1990s. In practice, the debt arrangement would help people to cope with the debt burden and enable a fresh start. A change of law would bring practical relief to the lives of many people. Originally, the objective of the debt arrangement was to help indebted individuals cope with their debts as a result of the recession in the 1990s. It was intended that, as a result of the recession, the financial situation of over-indebted persons would be restored and given a second chance. Since then, the debt regime has become a permanent and necessary means of correcting the financial situation of over-debted persons. Since the entry into force of the Act, more than 112,000 applications for debt arrangements have been submitted to district courts by the end of 2013. The Private Debt Act entered into force on 8 February 1993. Mr President! Article 10a of the Debt Arrangements Act Regulation on the granting of debt arrangements without The provision is worded as follows: ‘The arrangement may be made in accordance with Article 10§ Without prejudice to theobstacle provided for,wherethereis a need The Act was amended in 2014 in such a way that it first mentions the debtor’s actions in order to settle his debts and only after the time of indebtedness. The aim was to reduce the importance of the time spent on debt as a factor affecting the overall consideration. More than ten years ago, the current paragraph was considered the most important factor in the overall assessment of the debt-to-indebtedness period. The debt problems faced by those seeking a debt arrangement were often long-term. In particular, this provision sought to improve the situation of persons over-indebted during the recession of the 1990s who had been excluded from the debt regime. In this case, the time spent on indebtedness was highlighted in the overall consideration. Currently, less than 15% of customers in financial and debt counselling suffer from long-term payment difficulties. Many of them are victims of the recession of the 1990s. As a result of the recession, in order to improve the position of those in debt, account should be taken of the conditions under which the debt facility is granted that have taken place during the recession of the 1990s. That would be right and fair. Mr President! In general, I would say the following: When people go into enforcement, property is often sold quickly by public authorities, and unfortunately often even at a lower price. If the person in the enforcement order would like to discharge his obligations and make a payment plan, his attempt at mediation will also be often rejected even if the debt is not very high. I've been following a case like this myself for almost 30 years. It does not win society or debtor, but it causes unnecessary suffering and takes the person out of the carpet completely. There are still thousands of these cases as a result of the recession in the 1990s. A lot of people haven't lived up to it. They've committed suicide or they've got sick. The number of sad stories is enormous. Does this Parliament really understand this history and the really black dot of history? - Thank you. Mr President! Then I have another speech to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u81	Madam President! Congressman Elomaa has made a fine bill. The 1990s were indeed difficult for many people in private and especially for companies when we came to foreign funding and interest rates changed, and also if the entrepreneur had been badly affected and had all the guarantors and that family and so on, then there came such debtors who themselves have not even been involved in that company but have then been burdened with this debt. The role of these guarantors is also very important. So in the '90s — probably some parts now that we have had the recession since 2007 — when our banks went down and, as Mrs Elomaa has just said, were driven down, so before that, the entrepreneurs and all the others were milked dry, so to speak. The debts were transferred to private individuals and were also sold at a lower price at the time of the so-called cleaning up of banks' balance sheets that they were then made available for sale. A very good initiative, and I hope these Parliaments will get to this point, even if there are not a hundred full names here, so that this would be dealt with and we would have a point like this open that could be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-22-ps-53.u82	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Pirttilahti for his very commendable comment and speech just now. Mr President! During 1990-93, Finland was shaken by one of the worst economic crises in our history. The recession had a significant impact not only on the economy but also on culture, the general atmosphere and politics. In addition to banks, the recession brought down entrepreneurs and households. Bankruptcy increased, guarantee liabilities fell, and the debt burden for many grew too high. During the years of recession, some of those in debt have put their affairs in order and put their lives in order, but there are still thousands of people who have not yet paid the debt that has been created as a result of the recession. In order to facilitate the situation of victims of an exceptionally strong recession in the 1990s, the granting of debt arrangements should take account of the fact that debt has taken place during the recession of the 1990s. One of the reasons why many people are still heavily in debt after the recession is due to recovery measures. There is quite a wild west going on about them. Many Finns who are struggling with financial difficulties are paying for years for various additional costs of inheritance. In many cases, the costs of recovery are very high compared to or may even exceed the loan capital. The principal amount of the loan will not be reduced if all payments made fall into the additional invoices of the collection agencies. The collection agencies strive to make the best possible financial result and maximise their profits at the expense of people. Current legislation limits debt recovery, but the practical situation in debt recovery is gloomy from the point of view of debtors, since in practice recovery costs are often excessive in relation to loan capital. Even if some of the costs associated with recovery are not justified in terms of legislation, the debtor often pays the bills because it is difficult for the ordinary citizen to assess what the cost might be unjustified and what would not be. Mr President! When the collection agencies are not brought under control by legislation and supervision, the possibility of a debt arrangement would be a rescue for many people, a glimmer of light at the end of decades of a gloomy debt line. It must be remembered that it is also positive for society if a private individual gets off the track of debt imprisonment. The fact that all the incomes go down to the debtors certainly does not add to the motivation of the work. The signal that society cares would also be strengthened by this change of law. It would also be a hand-out for those entrepreneurs who were, in time, taking their own contribution and risk ahead of Finland, but later, with the recession, they became indisputable. One more observation when it comes to the duration of enforcement: In principle, the same enforcement can be continued for decades, and the bill can, as it were, be resumed. Even if a person has paid his debt for years, he may find that the amount has not decreased much from the original — even though he has tried very hard to reduce it. I do not mean that a person does not take care of his debts, but there should also be some moderation in these matters. - Thank you.
