ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u2	Mr President! I will probably have to ask for a new floor shortly to make the statement that we are about to make in this report, which is a worthy report by the government itself. However, it is a problem that the tax system is the channel that is flexible when the interests of the various interest groups need to be promoted. In this case, too, it is clear that these crop losses could not be compensated in any other way than by intervention in the tax system. This leads to what is the policy of this government at all, that the tax system is the one that is always prepared to question the basis and the tightness of the tax system. That is why it must be made absolutely clear that this arrangement is a one-off arrangement, and I hope that in this debate the representatives will confirm that it is never intended to use this same procedure again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u3	Mr President! I will also be supporting the proposal that Mrs Harakka will make in my own speech. After all, we have discussed this issue many times and, as Social Democrats, we have also expressed our support for the fact that, in such an exceptional situation, we have to recognise that damage has arisen and, in the name of humanity, these damage must be compensated. We have found it problematic that this method of compensation now goes through the tax relief on light fuel, which is of course not the best solution in terms of the environment and climate. On the other hand, we have drawn attention to this very fact that there must be certainty in the future that this arrangement as it stands will be a one-off arrangement, and other means should be found. One of the problems that arose here was the position of renewable energy sources in dryers, which means that this support does not necessarily come to all those who have actually suffered losses. In this case, those who use renewable energy will suffer. And that is why we are making a statement to this effect — to adopt the proposal, of course, but we hope that Parliament will be able to give its support to the fact that we will look for appropriate systems for this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u4	Mr President! Although Mr Viitanen slightly softened Mr Harakka's speech there, it must be wondered whether the SDP has an inherent opposition to the profitability of domestic food production and also to ensuring that such an exceptional situation of distress arises, which in agriculture came last autumn, that even some attempt is made to compensate for the costs incurred in terms of drying and energy costs. I hope — when Harakka says this is the last time — that under the leadership of the SDP you will be in support of the operating conditions of Finnish self-sufficient food production. Are you prepared to continue to be able to secure and produce clean food for the Finns, or are you a distant party that, whenever it is able to hit on agriculture, strikes and seizes the opportunity?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u5	Mr Harakka, I give you the answers in the order of the request.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u6	Mr President! Representative Harakka, during your last term of government, under your Minister of Finance, was removed from the crop damage law, which would have allowed farmers in crisis to be compensated directly. Because of you, it's been removed. And now that the farmers are humiliated on the ground, you want to trample them even further down there. I do not understand whether it does not mean that the food chain employs nearly 300,000 people. There many skilled hands get jobs, but not if there is no primary production. And, Mr Harakka, you were opposed to the addition of money to make use of the renewable in the future in the dryers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u7	Mr President! This has been the subject of a few debates in this Chamber, but I would like to sum up once again our thoughts on the matter: Farmers can and must be supported. We are not opposed to this compensation for crop damage, but to the way in which this is done. Here are a few points why this is the wrong way: One is that the use of fossil energy sources contributes to global warming. It is unacceptable to compensate even more for the damage caused by global warming through the use of fossil energy sources. The second point is that this aid is not targeted appropriately. The third is that this does not take into account those who use environmentally friendly practices. And the fourth is that this creates a precedent. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u8	Mr President! It has only been about a year and a half since we had a wide-ranging debate in Parliament on the issue of agriculture that KD left behind. At the time, the whole hall agreed that Finnish agriculture was in crisis and needed more support. Since then, there has been a major crop damage last summer and autumn, which is why this one-off compensation for crop damage is very justified. The KD also supported this in committee. This aid is justified, as I said, by the exceptionally difficult harvesting conditions of the autumn and the increased costs of drying machinery and cereals. And it is good to remember that tractors in Finland still do not work on wood chips; fossil fuel oil is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u9	Mr President! Yes, it has been said in this report that this should be a bit like a legal one, and this is a one-off, emergency-headed solution in this way. The problem has been real in itself, but it does not mean that any procedure should be used to respond to the problem, but that the procedure should last for daylight and principles, both from an environmental point of view and from an environmental point of view. What is the point of creating a model of support for those who have not been harmed and not providing support for those who have been harmed? In other words, this targeting is a clear problem in addition to this poor environmental management. This is clearly the place for criticism, and the committee has also written this criticism in this report by the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u10	Mr President! The representatives of the city centre here have now had to put their imagination to the extreme to blame us for the fact that we are exactly in agreement. We are in favour of this compensation for crop damage on the scale and in the manner proposed, as everyone in this Chamber knows, even if he pretends otherwise. Sure, it's okay. But, as Mr Uotila said, the committee drew attention to the fact that this is not a sustainable way. And we are just as concerned as this whole hall is about the future of Finnish agriculture under the extreme conditions of climate change. Then we need to find a permanent way, because the EU denied Finland its previous way of working and this insurance-based procedure has not worked. That is why the committee, which does not pretend to be the Committee of Agricultural Experts, has the courage to hope that there will be a permanent way of ensuring that these future crop damage occurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u11	Mr President! I understand that the Greens are taking a hard time with this. They think the electricity comes out of the socket, and the milk comes out of the jar, and the bread comes out of the oven. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u12	Mr President! Indeed, there is no real objection to this bill, and that is a good thing. What is the problem here is that the amount of aid is insufficient and comes too late. There's been no faster way to go about this. But really, as has been said here, in our food strategy we need to start thinking about these climate risks. Climate change is already visible from the window of the cabin. It's a fact. We may have seen some of the phenomenon last autumn that rains are increasing, that is, the risks are growing not only in Finland but globally, in Europe, and then we must have a guarantee that farmers will receive reasonable compensation, because there will be no young farmers in the sector unless there is also a prospect of profitability in the future. In this respect, this requires further work because the current situation is not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u13	Mr President! The chastisement of Congressman Rantakangas was very impressive, but I must say that the ax fell into the stone a lot. No one here has disagreed that no support should be given, Mr Rantakangas. If you read the committee's report, it is unanimous in this regard. That's unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u16	Mr President! Now it is important that, when such distress comes as it did last autumn, the government also leaves a small part of the country to compensate for those losses. After all, this is only a small part of the compensation for the costs and losses incurred. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u17	When representatives so actively address each other, I will allow a reply to Mrs Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u18	Mr President! Representative Rantakangas clearly started retreating in this criticism, but does it quite gently. One more time. We do not disagree with the need to compensate for these crop damage. The only question is how it is done — how it is done. And now, quite wisely, the committee unanimously says that this must be one-off and that this must not be continued.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u23	Mr Rantakanka will no longer be given a reply at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u24	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma just described that. In my opinion, it is unwise and indiscreet to make a policy of this common and similarity, what is involved here. Mr Rantakangas and Mr Kalmari, you are guilty of politicisation and you want something good for yourself about this, as if you were champions and you wanted even more, but you are now jointly behind this report. You might want to take a look in the mirror. And Mr Heinonen, I think you're the only MP in this Parliament who's still picking up the milk at the farm. The milk is definitely coming out of the can and the electricity is coming out of the plug. It's like today. I don't know if you're riding a exercise bike on the roads or what you're doing, but in any case, you might want to think about what you're saying here. That the milk actually comes out of the jar.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u25	The name of Mr Kalmar was mentioned here, and Mr Kalmari, you have the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u26	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma said that supporting fossil fuels is an absurd job. I hope that in every municipality where the representatives of the SDP are elected, support for coal will be stopped as a fossil fuel. You can make that decision nicely in your own hometowns. [of the Group of the European People's Party: in Helsinki! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u27	Mr President! According to the Committee's report, this is indeed a one-off compensation, and it will also require the Government in the future to consider other solutions in this regard, but I believe that in this Chamber there has been an absolutely absurd question about this issue — it is not really the same size. That if this compensation is EUR 600 per farmer and if it is thought that well over half of it, almost three quarters of it goes just to replace the fuels of tractors and machines, then the proportion that has gone into fuel or other in the dryers is very small. If we look at the 200 that is there, those who have invested in these droughts using biofuels are likely to be much bigger than the average farmers who have not been able to invest in them, and therefore they are not as big a deal as this debate would require.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u28	Chairman of the Tax Division, represented by Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u29	Mr President! Agriculture does not only have these crop damage problems, but also economic, income problems in general. I believe that this debate, which has been conducted with a good spirit, should be used more widely for agriculture. There has been a very positive response here to this average payment of EUR 690 per holding, and then, if we continue to be equally positive, we should almost then work together, even if in the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture, to improve the position of agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u30	Mr President! Representative Kiviranta intervened on an important issue: agricultural income development has been a minus sign for years. This year's estimate of revenue and expenditure is a minus sign, which means that the government also cut agricultural subsidies for this year. This is a fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u33	Mr President! This is about crop damage, and it has been massive. They need to be replaced. It must also be important for the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left to continue to produce food in Finland. This is a bit of a contradiction between the countryside and the city, and that is something we need to get rid of. In their alternative budget, the Finns suggested an additional 20 million for crop damage insurance, but it fell. The number of farmers is decreasing year by year. When we are in the EU, there is a very challenging situation as to how our farmers and our own food production will be in the future. So we all have to fight for Finnish agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u34	Mr President! Last autumn, these harvests were truly extensive and it was sad to look at the fallen and unharvest fields of grain. Many farms were already in a very difficult situation at that time, and there were messages from farmers that they were wondering if they could buy seed grain in the spring. In that sense, it seems strange that there are parties here who are prepared to submit a motion of rejection to that effect. [Interjection from left]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u35	Ladies and gentlemen! At this stage, I have made contributions to the following representatives: Mr Viitanen, Mr Hautala, Mr Yanar, Mr Heinäluoma, Mr Eestilä, Mr Kalli and Mr Uotila, and these will probably go. — — — — Mr Viitanen, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u36	Mr President! For the sake of clarity: the SDP supports this proposal. We are making a statement that reinforces the messages that the whole committee has unanimously sent out on the one-off nature of support, on the development of a substitute and on the concern about this use of renewable energy sources. If Mrs Rantakangas could read these documents or at least the efforts that are being made,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u39	Mr President! As we all know, last year was an exceptional year and, as a result, the granting of one-off aid was entirely justified. In my view, this chosen method of refunding excise duty treats farmers quite equally, as it has been necessary to purchase tractors, woodputters and drying fuels. It is necessary for us to consider in future what is the crop damage system. Current insurance systems do not serve enough; other options need to be considered. In that sense, such a fund model would be well founded. For example, if the state puts 10 million and farmers 10 million, 20 million funds have been raised a year, and if, for example, every four to five years there are crop damage coming, then 80 to 100 million would already be in the fund to compensate, and last year's damage amounted to between 100 and 150 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u40	Mr President! Of course, it would be good to hear arguments from government parties rather than paint horror pictures of our views. It has been said that this method of support is not right. It is also said by the government's proposal in a few points. For example, it says that this aid is not targeted appropriately. This is an article of the government's proposal. Furthermore, it is precisely this precedent that we are talking about here. The fact that it is granted this time does not mean that, in any similar situation, this aid is granted and it is said that such a risk exists. The third point is, of course, this fossil aspect. This is not in line with our climate objectives. This support is not good in this respect. In addition, operators using more environmentally friendly practices will not receive compensation. These arguments, if you'll answer, I'd appreciate it. These have not been answered on many occasions now. You're painting horror pictures. Answer these arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u41	Mr President! Indeed, this compensation for crop damage must have been carefully dealt with here, and it is clear that there is a strong will in Parliament to be met under these exceptional circumstances, and there is a need to compensate farmers. I would like Parliament to be united behind this committee's basic proposal and, as Mrs Viitanen has pointed out, this future statement by Mrs Haraka will stress that this system needs clarification and improvement, so that we do not have to put it into such a situation that, in order to help farmers with good intentions, there will be a bad policy of support, that is to say, to promote the use of fossil fuels. Today, when we know what the risks of global warming are and how much we have to pay everywhere else for reducing emissions, that is not a sensible policy. However, I would point out, Mr Rantakangas and Mr Kalmari, that I believe that you have been on the board for three years, that is to say that it will be possible to introduce new legislation during that period. That's one of the tasks of the government, to make proposals to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u42	Mr President! For me, at least, this government proposal represents the right direction, because this is about reducing the agricultural expenditure structure. And if I have understood correctly, food prices on the world market are a little different from the cost structure of Finland, and one of the biggest problems in Finnish agriculture is the high cost structure, and when the government has gone down the road to reduce the cost structure and, in particular, on the energy side, the line is absolutely correct. That is why I would draw attention to the fact that, in this decade, farmers and entrepreneurs and, of course, other people's bills, electricity bills and energy bills have gone up quite a lot, and one of the major reasons for this is the Energy Agency, which raised the maximum allowable yield.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u43	And in the meantime, Mr Hoskonen, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u44	Mr President! It is good that there is a good debate on these issues and on these grounds. I am simply surprised that when we are talking about the refund of fuel tax to farmers because of the difficult situation, then it becomes wise to think that this is a climate policy or not. I wonder, for example, what Mr Yanar said about rural areas, about the tax refund on fuel used in agricultural tractors. The fossil matter that burns there is the climate policy. But you agree to the continued use of Finland’s largest coal — and by the way you made a new record last year. Councilman Yanar only warmly congratulates the Greens on promoting energy policy in Helsinki, making a new record for independent Finland last year in the burning of coal, warm congratulations. [Current Group :ohhh! — Laughter — Kari Uotila’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u45	Finally, Mr Uotila and then the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u46	Mr President! It must now be remembered that crop damage has occurred and has been estimated at between 100 and 150 million. The government in the third amending budget decided to come to this emergency by 25 million. Is that enough? That's a question to ask. Well, then the way it was done was to leave out those who use domestic fuels, even wood chips, for drying. Does the center really think that helping those in distress will not help those who use domestic fuel, a tool to dry grain? It's not very fair, at least for the Left Alliance. The fact that the Left Alliance and the Greens have objected to the rejection and substitution of this poorly targeted proposal against environmental policy is, in my view, a good proposal. Do you need a better model? I see you don't. We do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u47	And the last response, Mr Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u48	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Budgets is based on a very clear basis, and it unanimously assumes that the burden on farmers will be replaced by this sum of 25 million, and then the point. But the report also stresses that we do not have a working model to compensate for crop damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u51	Representative Yanar from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u52	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes that agricultural operators be reimbursed excise duty temporarily increased in 2017 on light fuel oil used in agriculture, and this is, as has just been said, intended to compensate for the crop damage caused by heavy rainfall. There has been some discussion here. This is a second reading, and we believe that farmers can and should be supported, but the way in which they are supported does not suit us. This is a bad habit. I've been through this many times, which is why this is a bad habit, but I'll tell you one more time. [Current Group: It's not worth it!] 1) Increasing the use of fossil energy sources increases global warming. Global warming is reflected in strong weather phenomena such as the heavy rains described in the government proposal. In our opinion, it is unacceptable to compensate for the damage to crops caused by global warming by means of a means which will further increase the use of fossil energy sources and thus global warming. This is a bad habit. The Government's proposal is therefore incompatible with its own objectives. One thing, another aspect of this: this energy tax refund is also not targeted appropriately. The government's proposal also states that this will also be targeted at farmers who have suffered little or no crop damage. The third point is the environmental aspect, i.e. those farmers who use more environmentally friendly energy sources and who have suffered crop damage are not eligible for aid. Furthermore, the last point is that this is a precedent and the government's proposal also states that there is a risk that this bad way of compensating will be repeated. That is why we propose that the bill be rejected and we want Parliament to adopt the following statement. Here's what's going on. ‘The Commission requires the Government to issue a new proposal on the Compensation must be targeted correctly and encourage the use of environmentally friendly energy sources.”
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u53	Mr President! The debate has already gone through quite well, so I shall confine myself to supporting Mr Yanar's motion for rejection and his proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u54	Mr President! I repeat that agricultural income has been falling for years, and in this year's estimate of revenue and expenditure, which was presented by the government, the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps was still reduced. So in this year's budget, farmers received less money than in the year before. We really did have crop damage last summer. We agree that part of it should be replaced. The fastest way was through light fuel oil and there was no need to use aid for EU approval in the EU Commission. This does not, therefore, increase the use of light fuel, Mr Yanar. This is the history on which the compensation comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u57	Mr President! This debate may have sounded a little more dramatic than it actually is, because everyone here is unanimous in favour of this proposal. In other words, this one-off aid specifically for fuels, due to last year's crop damage, is now being given, on average, EUR 690 per farm. This support is 7,7 cents per litre. Just as Mrs Wallin said, there is no new climate change or support for fossil fuels here, but precisely last year's compensation for the difficult weather conditions. All in all, when the last year was poor in terms of weather and the harvests were extensive, agriculture has been agonizing with major difficulties in profitability in many other respects. However, this parliamentary term has made a better match between the payment of subsidies and the timetables, so that they are working at the moment. Agricultural bureaucracy has been dismantled in many respects. Improvements have been made to the labelling of origin, and there is still a desire to improve the menus of restaurants and so on. So it's been done and done all the time. It is good to hear that there is a consensus here that measures should be taken for agriculture. However, food self-sufficiency is a key factor for the future for us to be able to maintain security of supply in our food. We are also able to maintain security of supply for those worse times, so I would like to thank you for the unanimity in this proposal and I hope for further proposals in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u58	Mr President! Agriculture has been in trouble for a long time, and last summer’s rains added to this difficulty. We now need rapid solutions to this acute financial crisis. In this particular case, it has been found to farmers affected by last summer's harvest in this refund of energy tax. When, according to experts, it is the fastest and least costly and least bureaucratic means of transmitting funding, I believe that this is a really good and unanimous decision. Finally, I would like to say that once these climate objectives have been mentioned here and, as it were, our actions against them in this case, I completely disagree. That's really not the point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u59	Mr President! These same themes have been discussed during the debate and at first reading, which we have discussed today, namely that on the one hand it is quite right to compensate farmers for the damage caused by nature, but, on the other hand, a sustainable way should be found that would not conflict with the national climate and energy strategy, which was discussed just two or three weeks ago here in Parliament's Chamber. But I am not going to go any further, but I would like to point out that the Social Democrats in the Committee on Budgets wanted to highlight the fact that, for these reasons, we would find a more sustainable solution to this whole issue. We certainly did not want to present a wreck, but rather constructively reflect on what needs to be done when climate change presents more and more challenges for Finnish crop farming. They need to be looked for in a literal way now during good weather. And when the EU's common agricultural policy is reformed, more sustainable methods of risk management must be created, perhaps a new form of insurance for extremes. Of course, in the long term, the best climate insurance is that climate change is tackled in a credible and consistent way, both in large and small areas. That is why, in itself, we are making an excellent and balanced statement in addition to the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It reads as follows: ‘The Council of State shall immediately consolidate the model of compensation for damage it has prepared,which shall replace the one-off procedureVVM22/2017vpandMmVL22/2017vp with reference to the objectives of the And, of course, as Mr Viitanen said earlier, it would be perfectly logical for our friends from the centre to support this statement, which was very much wanted here. This was an old repetition, but at this reading I would like to raise a more general issue of taxes and tax populism, which has been neglected. In other words, bearing in mind clearly that the SDP and, apparently, the whole parliament almost unanimously support this procedure in this particular arrangement, it is problematic if the tax system in general is the only flexible means of organising the things promised to the various interest groups. It became clear that compensation for crop damage could not, inter alia, be organised through alternative support procedures because of EU requirements. However, the general principle of good taxation has been broad and tight tax bases without exceptions, which allows for low tax rates. Notice this connection. Social democrats are often accused of tightening taxes when we simply want to close loopholes, guarantee uniform tax treatment for different types of investment, reduce tax subsidies, thus increasing the tax base, which will then generate additional revenue of hundreds of millions of euros. And then, in accordance with the correct principle of taxation, tax can be reduced. Therefore, the SDP has consistently proposed lower income tax, especially for low and middle-income employees and pensioners than the government. So lower taxes on earned income, a tighter tax base. But the temptation to share benefits through the tax system is great. When expenditure discipline is severe and benefits are not wanted to be increased, income is reduced instead of increased expenditure. In other cases, the current government has also chosen to cut off this tax base, as if it were somehow a different kind of money, which is lost as revenue, than what is added as expenditure. This has led to more and more inconsistencies in the tax system or, as one professor of economics said, bulldozers. They are costly for society, such as the so-called entrepreneurship reduction, EUR 120 million, and various other tax-related subsidies. We should get rid of them, and in that respect, this whole thinking now requires a completely new income angle. Of course, it is extraordinary if the starting point for the whole government is that we do not have to care about tax revenue, as has been shown by the fact that a citizens' initiative to abolish inheritance tax and gift tax is coming into this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u67	Mr President! This debate on the refund of fuel tax to farmers is a good illustration of the Finnish debate on how to deal with rural areas and the work that is being done there in general. The plight of farmers today is tangible. One of the big reasons for this, of course, is this year of the weather, but even in recent years, the agricultural situation has been getting worse and worse, and sometimes it feels as if someone is listening to the speeches that someone is even glad that this is the case. In fact, however, the situation here is that some 300,000 people are getting their bread from the preparation of domestic food at different stages, from the farm to the ready-to-eat table, which means that this is an extremely serious matter. What makes it even more serious is that at the same time as we are seeking ways in Finland to support farms, to keep them in production and to keep them at the Finnish table would be food for Finnish food, clean food, so when we genuinely start looking for them, it seems that we do not really find them — or, at least, a common understanding of them. Of course, this report is unanimous, but what has been heard today in this debate is so difficult for me to say that it is now a unanimous debate. In any case, this European agricultural policy knows that we do not have the possibility of direct support for farms. It is all this common European agricultural policy. This return model, too, where fuel tax returns to farms are now at stake, has been tested in the EU to see whether this is OK and has been given the green light that this is the case. However, within the framework of the common agricultural policy, when we speak, it should be borne in mind that the means by which these work is carried out, that is to say to ease the plight of farms, are extremely limited. That is why it is absolutely necessary for Finnish people to finally come to an understanding with which we genuinely support Finnish food, that is to say, we use Finnish food and leave it as little import food as possible. As stated in this report by the Committee on Finance, there are no means of compensation for these crops today in practice. The crop damage procedure ended in this country in 2015, and since then we have been adrift on this issue. This fiscal instrument, which is now being used, just as the committee's report says, is in practice the only one. So this means that from now on, Finnish consumers, Finnish people will have to think every time they shop, think about what they want to do in this country: do we maintain 300,000 jobs or buy that cheap Dutch food, or wherever it is imported into this country? In any case, you will recall the European study which produced such a result that there were huge amounts of various harmful substances in various foods — such as salmonella found in broilers almost invariably in all — so that it is then the harsh reality of what is on that market today. We Finns should gradually go in the direction that we use our own clean food, because ultimately it is our own health, our public health, and now that there is a heavy debate about that social welfare reform in this house this spring, it is also about public health, how healthy we are or whether we are suffering from MRSA or salmonella or something else. So this is a very serious matter. Finally, Mr President, one way of doing this is to increase the share of domestic fuels — by reducing fossils. I would like Parliament to take this into account and genuinely develop systems that create the structure of liquid fuels in such a way that more and more domestic bio-based sections are added to it, so that one day we will be able to achieve the situation of driving, for example, a purely domestic fuel in Finnish fields and no longer having to use fossil fuels. Technically, that's perfectly possible today. The technique is quite simple. When the Germans used it already during World War II, it is no wonder if in 2018 Little by little, Finland would make a determined decision to move towards such a system. Today, in Brazil, cars are driven, which are cars that run on bioethanol. It's not a problem out there. I don't think that's a problem here either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u68	Mr President! From the outset, I would like to support Mr Haraka's statement and, secondly, to say that I do not wish to repeat here the arguments that have already been raised here that this committee's view is also unanimous on the points made by the Social Democrats in their own opinion. In fact, in our statement we are presenting what the entire committee is thinking in its report. That is why I would like to make it clear that this is a confirmation of the message, and I therefore hope that, for example, the representatives of the centre, including Mr Rantakangas and Mr Kalmari, should support this proposal. Apparently they did not have the opportunity to take part in this first stage of the debate, because then the processing climate was much more harmonious and it seemed good that the SDP was behind this model. But suddenly there was a slight change in tone when Mrs Rantakangas was a little dramatic, apparently without further reading what was at stake. But, President-in-Office, I would also like to say what I repeated here before that I believe that the interests of agriculture as a whole are that we have sustainable and ethically acceptable agricultural methods. And that is why I believe that seriously, when we are also considering climate and environmental issues and the potential for this in the future, we are talking about the success of agriculture as a whole, because consumers still appreciate ethical choices. The second point, which is very topical and which I said last time, is animal welfare. These are also things that people appreciate more and more, and it would therefore be very important that the animal welfare law now coming into being should be progressive. And with regard to that, Mr President, I have quite a lot of doubts now that it is not progressive enough. Many animal keepers have expressed their concerns, and I hope that in this context I will also be able to send my greetings in preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u69	Mr President! A little worried, I listened to certain speeches, and if I were on that farm working... It seems a little bit of a concern to some people when you think about it for a person and not just as a fossil fuel or other. At least I got a lot of contacts myself after last autumn, and there was a lot of trouble and there seemed to be little money. In that sense, it is a great thing that this compensation comes and happens, and at least I cannot go and sign anything that I could never do again. If some are in trouble, yes, they must be able to be helped. I can't go here and make promises like that. That you have to live by the circumstances. The Greens’ idea that this should be completely rejected seems rather unusual. If you want to develop the system, you need to develop it. In their alternative budget last autumn, the Finns suggested developing a crop damage model like this and we were investing 20 million in it, but there was no response from anyone in that debate. I'm glad you're coming now. That's where the SDP brought up inheritance tax, and I paid attention to it. There are now representatives of the SDP, and I hope that the SDP will take a stand now, because in this speech the Harakka spoke of the need for a tight tax base and without exceptions to be introduced and the income tax should be reduced. Personally, I agree that the taxation of people with low and middle incomes in particular could be reduced on the income tax side, but also on the pensioner's deductions could be increased so that they do not have more stringent taxation. I was thinking that it was a pretty tough attack on inheritance tax. I myself asked for material from the Taxpayer's Confederation here some time ago, and their leading lawyer sent me last autumn's lecture material in which this Juha Koponen tells me that the so-called middle class pays the bulk of the taxes and tax is already paid for relatively small inheritances and the progress is relatively steep. It is good to remember that that valuation always takes place at the time of death, and those taxes are paid even if the widow stays there, according to the value of the dwelling, even if it has increased many times over ten years of living there. In fact, Mr Haraka and I had a little debate on this earlier. He then announced in the media that inheritance tax and gift tax is the best tax in the market economy, because it is not about work, but about undeserved income. Well, is it undeserved if, for example, spouses live together and then one dies and is taxed? There's a sleigh pulled together. According to Mr Harakka, it is also a fair tax and a tax that enhances the economy. Well, since then, he's a little bit on my side of the media, because I'm the one who said that the excesses should be removed, which means that there's widowhood, the status of siblings — for example, the brothers live together on a farm in a common household. Just one day I got a call that the brothers live alone, are childless, and when the time is left, one of them will have to pay the tax according to the more expensive tax class. [The First Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : Madam Vice-President! I would ask you to take note of the point that is currently being discussed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u72	Mr President! I understand your wish to stick to this point. [The First Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen: Indeed, Mr Harakka. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u75	The next item is Mr Reijonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u76	Mr President! There has been a very wide-ranging debate here, if I may say so, on the subject of taxation. At times it seemed that there were a lot of drivers on two wheels, and I think the wheel bearings were pretty hot somewhere in Finland. But in itself, from the perspective of Finnish rural and producers, this issue is extremely important and should be at the heart of this debate in my opinion. We all know that the conditions change every year in agriculture, but also the regional differences are quite large, that is also true. The snow is currently about one and a half metres in eastern Finland. It is assumed that there will be flooding in the spring. It may be that cereals will be landed much later than normal, and it may again pose a threat to the fact that the grain will not have time to burn and ripen in good time, which means that there will certainly be plenty of threats in the countryside. The issue under discussion is an important and important hand-out for farmers. I hope that we do not now have to vote on this issue. The amount is in itself a very small but important hand-out to farmers. Producers work long hours. In particular, producers with livestock are not covered by the Working Time Act. Every morning, every night, every weekend. That is what we must all remember. I'm sure everyone in this room wants to speak for Finnish food, and that's what I do. But if the producer’s back breaks, then the Finnish food will not be available in the future. It is also a question of how seed can be obtained if these flood damage and crop damage occur every autumn. The quality of seed grain is suffering and the price is also rising, and this too can be clearly seen in the producer's purse. The issue of security of supply has already been referred to here; that is an important issue. I hope they take it seriously. Among other things, Mr Hautala has presented a new model here. A model has been discussed, whether it is good or bad. I really think it's worth thinking about these models together. In my opinion, these tax issues are not quite appropriate in this respect, but I will just say that tax evasion does not support economic growth at any point in time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u77	Mr President! We know that the weather conditions have varied not only in Finland but in Europe and elsewhere in the world, which means that agriculture is highly dependent on the weather. But the most important thing at the moment is that we accept it for about 25 million to compensate farmers for their crop damage. Then, if we want to read this report, all we have to do is read inside. It has been said here, which is why there are wreck proposals or something else, but it is said here that ‘the method of compensation had to be implanted into an existing energy tax refund system’,and it is further stated that‘although the criterion of compensation is most reliable,there is anindirect link to the individual losses incurred by the farmer. It therefore leaves out those farmers who use, for example, wood chips for drying. Similarly, the additional aid may also be directed towards a farmer who has not actually suffered any damage’. But, Mr President, if we want to understand again what has been said unanimously in this committee's report, there is therefore no need for any proposals for statements here. I will read this here: ‘The committee attaches great importance to the fact that the compensation is one-off,as is the purpose. In order for this to happen, an acceptable and effective model must be established for the compensation of crop damage in one way or another.’ This is a very simple report and, if we stick to it, we will all receive this support unanimously. Having listened to both the left and the right in a couple of hours, we are all on the same track that a unanimous report will be pounded on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u78	Mr President! It is good to agree that we all agree on this. That is why I have to say that, at the beginning of the sitting, when the debate began to take place in a very reprehensible tone, which was initiated by Mr Rantakangas, and he questioned the methods of the SDP in everything and whether we want to support agriculture, I think it would be reasonable for everyone to be aware that, in fact, we are putting forward a stronger message to this very message which the whole committee had made clear in its own report. Therefore, President, I would like to reiterate that I hope that Mrs Rantakangas, who has already been very critical of us, will regret this statement and then vote in favour of our statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u79	Mr President! In my recent speech on that toilet, I was not aware of the fact that this report and this measure do not negatively contribute to climate change. I have to say, this is where the fuel oil has already been used.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u84	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! At the beginning of this discussion, where does the milk come from, is it coming from the jar? From the jar to the glass, but from somewhere, Mr Myllykoski, it must also be brought into the jar, and it will require domestic food production and dairy farms in the future, and grain must also be given bread, and it will also require its own food production. Own food production is a matter of value and security of supply. As has been well mentioned in this debate and in the previous reading, last autumn was exceptional for Finnish food production and Finnish farmers. This report estimates up to EUR 150 million in autumn crop damage, and even in the final game of this proposal, only a very small part of it can be replaced by these Finnish food producers. On average, that aid is only around EUR 690 million, totaling 25 million. It is not a big hand stretch, but when our food production is in a very delicate and difficult situation, this too is important for many of us. This proposal is therefore a one-off harvest compensation, and it has been decided in this way that this is in line with EU law and, on the other hand, that this has been an easy and quick, flexible and cost-effective way of meeting in this exceptional situation. The debate has well highlighted, among other things, how the crop damage regime ended in 2015 and now such an exceptional solution has been sought. As has been mentioned in this debate, it should not be said that this type of model would no longer be necessary. It may be necessary, but hopefully we will not need it, but we will find a better model in the timetable that will be able to target it even more fairly to all Finnish food producers who are affected by the exceptional weather conditions. After all, as has been said in the debate, some use wood chips, for example, has already moved on to renewable energy sources, and then, of course, this compensation may not be fair to them. However, as the debate and the committee report point out, this is now a one-off solution at this stage and it is intended to find a new model quickly, which is an acceptable and workable model for similar situations. Perhaps when listening to this debate, it has become a little bit of a feeling that who is most serious about helping Finnish food production and Finnish food producers. It is good that at least now, in the light of this debate, it seems that there will be defenders of Finnish food, at least in words and hopefully in action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u85	Mr President! I am sure I do not understand all these parliamentary practices in my few years, but when the representative criticised me by name for minutes and when the President gave me an answer, I could assume that I would have my answer. But here my mind turned out to be flawed. How we got into this debate on inheritance taxes was the result of my very legitimate concern about the way in which the tax system will be if this structural way of organising these one-off or otherwise badly and rapidly needed interests is organised in such a way that new rebates, reliefs or changes are being introduced into the tax system. It is not, therefore, a question of whether that benefit is justified or less justified, but of the fact that the integrity, logic and predictability of the tax system are being affected, and instead of breaking the norm, there are still new exceptions and rules that change this position that have already been known. As I said, this government has, instead of reducing expenditure in a situation where benefits have been cut, been tempted to grant more income to its own interest groups by making exceptions to the tax system. This leads to the loss of the tight tax base and the loss of the scope of the tax base, and thus the entire financing of public services has deteriorated significantly during this government. That is why I had to ask that, when we have these well-founded taxes, why in this House, for example, does Mr Heinonen represent the position that inheritance tax and gift tax should be abolished immediately when it is not even the opinion of the Assembly?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u86	Mr President! One can say from this report, which we are discussing here, that fortunately it is unanimous. However, I find these remarks, which have now been made, somewhat confusing. The quality of this debate describes the situation in Finland very well at the moment. However, in this country, if we want to create a standard of living in Finland and a new job, new growth and new export products, that certainly means that we must use our natural resources more and more wisely. I am referring, for example, to the debate that has taken place when the Land Use Directive, LULUCF, was being prepared in this house or the sustainability criteria for renewable energy at the time: there were huge conflicts here about not using the forest, not using the land. We need to change our attitude in this house if we want to get the Finnish economy in better shape and work for people. We must take advantage of the opportunities of the whole country. That kind of conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u87	Mr President! Interesting discussion hour and 20 minutes about Finnish food, Finnish food producers. As a Finnish food producer, as a producer of cereals and milk, I must say that sometimes you can see that in the speeches made by certain MPs, the understanding of the matter itself is narrow and the desire is more political. But it is very important that this report on compensation for crop damage is unanimous and recognises the fact that this chosen method is the best possible in this situation. This is how we move forward. The opinion is necessary, but I would like to point out here that this broader context has been discussed and debated, but one thing and a dimension has not been dealt with at all. We will certainly not be able to influence the weather very much in the short term, yet all measures to slow down climate change are necessary. But the other side, the support that we can do in Finland for the cultivation of our own land and internationally, is that we must have the desire to develop varieties and the desire to support farmers in that we are able to use varieties that can withstand new weather conditions and that our fields are in such a condition that they can withstand such extreme phenomena. To that amount of compensation: Less than EUR 700. For, for example, my own family eats well for a month and a half, with a narrower bag for a little longer. Yes, it does mean something, and I thank the government for that in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u88	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Transport and Communications to reject the bill contained in the citizens' initiative. Parliament's statement is now decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u92	Mr President! We're making an irreversible mistake here. You'll regret it. I'm disappointed and sad.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u93	Mr President! First of all, I support the addition made by Mr Raatikainen, which differs from the statement made by the committee which also required the security of airport operations, but we, the Finns of Peru, specifically wanted it to come here to the capital region and not anywhere else, and that the operation of Malmi Airport must be secured until such a field is found here in the capital region. The last time we had a very lively debate on this airport in Malmi, I really hope that this historic area and an extremely important area will not be built under any circumstances — and good decisions for all who are listening to this now. Let's keep Malmi Airport up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u94	Mr President! Mr Raatikainen's proposal for a statement when he was adopted would, in my view, clarify Parliament's will. It is true that, in its own report, the Committee on Transport and Communications does take account of these needs in relation to recreational aviation, other small aviation, unmanned aircraft and their space needs, the airport needs, that there should be a substitute for them, and this is also a long-term state of government will and policy. But now, because of the different political pressures, this committee’s effort — despite its good intentions — has been somewhat watered down even by the original Government decision of 2014. If the Government were not obliged to act with sufficient precision to find the field before the possible end of Malmi Airport, there is always a risk that the measures in practice will be delayed and become more difficult the further the time goes. I hope the House will accept this effort.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u95	Mr President! The last time we had a very wide-ranging debate on this issue, it was quite often the case that the City of Helsinki is making a very stupid decision on this matter. This statement is, of course, a good one, but on condition that the city does not take sense and change the decision. We really hope that this decision can be changed within the City of Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u96	Mr President! Malmi Airport has done a very important job, and it also involves a lot of cultural historical ties and emotional ties. That's why there's a lot of friends at Malmi Airport and a lot of people have been worried about the fate of the airport. However, the situation is that, contrary to what has been said here in Parliament, the government has continued and made important decisions by driving down these operations at Malmi Airport with regard to the state. In other words, during this government, the Border Guard ceased its operations here, as well as air traffic control operations there have been discontinued. The City of Helsinki is not an airport operator; it cannot start running this airport. And if the state does not use that field, its access and utilisation rates are really low, unfortunately. Now the question is, what do we do with this? So much memory still works that I happen to remember that a year ago, before the municipal elections, we had a debate on this issue, and I remember that the Prime Minister, exceptionally, took part in the citizens' initiative and announced that the state is ready for regional exchanges with the City of Helsinki — the state is ready for regional exchanges. Well, it took two hours for the Minister of Finance to come out and say that no such thing has been discussed within the government. Well, it's been a year. When I visited the city container, I asked whether there was an exchange offer made to the City of Helsinki, and I have to say to this gym, ladies and gentlemen, that the government has not made any exchange offers in relation to land deals, contrary to what the Prime Minister said here. What matters to me is what they say about this toilet, anyone said, but especially if the government ministers make a statement to Parliament. I would now like to ask whether anyone here knows anything about the actions of this government in relation to Malmi Airport and what the Prime Minister has promised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u97	Mr President! It was good that Mr Heinäluoma has asked about Helsinki. I am rather amazed at that answer, which has come to the effect that there were no contacts since then with regard to these changes of land. I, too, took part in the debate that took place in this Chamber more than a year ago. However, it is beginning to be a long time ago, it was before the municipal elections, when the Prime Minister certainly took a strong stand for the will of the state, and I think there was also a group decision in the centre that they were on behalf of Malmi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u100	Mr President! In front of the Constitution, the municipalities and cities of Finland have great autonomy, and Parliament should not and should not trample on it. And this is what we are facing now. It is very sad that the City of Helsinki and the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki have decided in all their wisdom that Malmi Airport as such will no longer be developed or maintained. It would have been very desirable for the City of Helsinki and the decision-makers and officials there to have made a different decision, to have seen the need for the development of the functions of Malmi Airport — very large-scale operations such as air safety, security of supply, leisure, business operations, intelligent transport, future unmanned vessels and all the like — in their entirety. But the city has made a different decision, and that is why I am now reading this new proposal, which was presented to us by Mr Raatikainen, to the effect that ‘the continuity of aviation operations at the airport of Malmi must be ensured until the corresponding operations have been completed’. This should be addressed to the City of Helsinki officials, the mayor or at least to the representatives. This Chamber is a bit wrong, and I therefore very strongly support the adoption of the report unanimously adopted by the Committee on Transport and Communications and the statement, which is also quite impressive, that ‘the Council of State is required to take action’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u101	Responses to representatives Heinäluoma, Viitanen, Puska and Kiuru. Then let us return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u102	Mr President! The representative of Vehkaperä here strongly accused the City of Helsinki of this decision. However, it is important to remember the correct course of events, and that is the decision made by the previous government that the State will abandon its own operations at Malmi Airport, and then the City of Helsinki stated that it is not worth keeping the big area in considerable underutilisation but that it should be used for housing purposes, and a formula was made on this basis. It was then a question of whether the state would change its activities, when the centre is now the Prime Minister's party, when the central prime minister had made a strong speech here that regional exchanges should take place in such a way that: Helsinki receives enough land for housing construction. Well, it has now become clear that there are no such exchanges, there is nothing going on. So if the government decides to use Malmi Airport and give land suitable for housing production to the city, then I believe that the city is ready to make new decisions, such as:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u103	Mr President! We are talking about the situation that the Prime Minister has made a promise before the municipal elections that this issue at Malmi Airport is close to the heart and that it will be dealt with and will be offered to the city to ensure that this matter is dealt with. A year has passed, nothing has happened in this regard. I repeat the rather illustrative phrase that Mr Heinäluoma said that the City of Helsinki is not an airport operator, but, in this case, if this situation is to change, it is the government that must take action, that must bring to Malmi activities that have been withdrawn, and then we must also negotiate with the city. I find it strange to hear, Mr President, that a year has passed since these speeches and these communications have not come from the government. That's today's news.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u104	Mr President! I really do not know what kind of discussions may have taken place, but it is clear that in Helsinki the centre has been strongly in favour of preserving Malmi and also the central parliamentary group unanimously. I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister who operates the aircraft has also clearly stated his position here. But, as has been said, this is a matter of municipal self-government, and one can only hope that the City of Helsinki will change its position here. After all, the agreement requires two parties, and I do not doubt even a moment ago that the government and the Prime Minister would be strongly involved if the City of Helsinki were to move in some way. Yes, this is precisely a matter for the City of Helsinki, and the city specifically wants to be this kind of modern European metropolis capital. This town should be moving around.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u105	Mr President! I have an actual speech to make, and I will leave the actual news of the day. In this one-minute speech, I would like to highlight the security aspects. The news I am about to give in the actual speech is not known to anyone in this house yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u108	Mr President! However, this speech by Mr Puska has to be addressed insofar as this is a very strong accusation against the City of Helsinki and the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki. That is a little sad when the Prime Minister himself took over in this Chamber a year ago. Here’s a direct quote: ‘This government will prepare this case,to rescue the Malmi Airport if we find a contract partner in the City of Helsinki,that,for example,we’ll find an area to replace the country’s exchange,or if we This, of course, largely depends on the new elected City Councillors in Helsinki.” It's been a pretty good election speech in this room. Then, for a year, we stand on the tables for this initiative and now we bring this matter back to the Chamber one year before the elections, as it were, at a somewhat easier time. That's pretty bad politics, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u109	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u110	Mr President! Firstly, I support the proposal made by Mr Raatikainen. I would like to point out here that when the Prime Minister previously gave his spiritual support to Malmi Airport, there was an important statement, even though it was already possible to sense that Lex Malmi could not stand to see through the Constitution. It is therefore not the fault of any party that we are in this situation, least of all the Prime Minister. That is right, as has been discussed here, to look at the decision-makers in Helsinki, to see whether such a genuine tripartite state would be born on the government axis of Helsinki, where there would be sufficient will and willingness to go through this situation in Malmi. This is what I would recommend to Helsinki and that Helsinki and the State be active actors in this. What is interesting about this is whether Helsinki is actually going to be the capital of Finland — one that recognises the interests of Finland as a whole and decides to re-examine this issue at Malmi Airport, because it is not just a matter of importance to Helsinki alone, but an airport of significance for Finland as a whole. It has an undisputed place, it has a historical background, it has architectural reasons for maintaining it, so I will wait for this Helsinki initiative. Mayor Vapaavuori seems to be very feisty about many things and to step forward. Here, too, he could step forward and take the initiative into his own hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u111	Mr President! I feel like a duel between the city center and Mayor Vapaavuori is going to get round 2. Sote is lot 1, and now Malmi is part 2. In my opinion, Mr Laukkanen, you are now calling for active action from the wrong party. The active party is the one who has personally wanted to do the action and opened the game. I remember Mayor Vapaavuori saying that if there is an invitation to talk about Malmi, the mayor will not dispute it but will seize the opportunity and be prepared to have a debate if it comes from the Prime Minister. This issue of government has come precisely from the fact that the Prime Minister has asked this question. I have to say, although it was an election speech, that the hook did not hold, because the support of the city centre, however, did not fall to the level in Helsinki which was perhaps thought of by the party office and by the Prime Minister, that it could be used tactically so that it could then contribute to the municipal election campaign. But what has been said in the interlude and in others is that this is a long-term process which no government can decide on itself, neither the previous government nor that government. Perhaps the Committee on Transport and Communications could have dealt with this as a matter of its own in the last term or this period before this citizens' initiative, so that we would have been active and would have ensured that Helsinki would be a capital with an alternative airport.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u112	Mr President! This is about Lex Malmi and the citizens' initiative, not at the initiative of any party, but at Lex Malmi, where the authors have left the decision-makers as high as possible. This has been the subject of a different reaction from the various parties. Congressman Myllykoski, sometimes you can take a spoon in a beautiful hand when you notice that something is going in the wrong direction. And yes, Helsinki can take initiative here, even if someone else thinks that the marching order could be different. It is so important that it is not worth pecking here that to whom it belongs, but to see that this is a matter for Finland as a whole, there are a lot of different aspects to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u113	And at this stage of the debate, the last response, Mrs Myllykan... touched.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u114	Mr President! I feel like I'm wearing a mill cloth too. It's a little smoother than it was. — But it must now be said to Mr Laukkanen that at no time did I say that this is one party. I quoted the Prime Minister's own statements and quoted that this election vow was bad, because it certainly did not bear a crop there. Citizens' initiatives are very important and respectable to the Member of Parliament of the Left Alliance, Jari Myllykoski, and I hope that, during this period, we will be able to conclude that the Constitutional Committee will deal with the initiative that I have taken, that the citizens' initiative will not change and will not go away, even if the Parliament changes, that is to say, the public opinion must be respected so that it must not depend on the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u115	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u116	Mr President! In the Parliament, one of the main themes to which I focus is summed up in the word ‘safety’. Safety is also related to aviation, it is linked to security of supply, national security from many different perspectives. What kind of system is it, what kind of evasive plans are, how tight the systems are, as it were, in one place, is a critical factor. As I said in my speech on the subject of the debate, there may be news coming up here that may raise a great deal of debate in Finland and Europe in the coming days. The information is that Eurocontrol's flight data system is currently down. It's a red code, and the systems and people have moved to evasive positions. Eurocontrol is therefore an organisation, a multinational organisation responsible for inter-state air traffic control services. It includes practically all EU countries. They're in evasive mode now. According to the preliminary information I have, Finland is currently able to handle two flights per hour. This, of course, has a direct link to whether our systems are united, whether they are decentralised, to what extent air traffic control services are combined, to what extent airports are brought together, to what extent there are so many of them. We all know that the security environment has changed very radically in recent years. Hybrid threats, cyber threats, information impact, the situation in the Baltic Sea — even now or in the days to come, military exercises in the Baltic Sea will take place in a way that is foreign to previous years, close to the territorial waters of another country. What is news at this moment is that the first pages of Eurocontrol in English have given the first press releases on the subject, and the Finnish media will certainly be watching how it affects Finland, ask the local Finnish authorities what this is. In this context, there is a link to the issue of Malmi Field, which is now very well dealt with and in the position it is in, but when these issues are dealt with, you can never ignore the safety aspect of these issues. This is absolutely central to this. If we put all the critical factors in one place and someone happens, whether it's a terrorist act or just some power supply failure, then even if there are backup systems, even though there are trained staff, even though there is plan B and plan C, then if they are in one place, those risks will start to accumulate. For example, when talking about aviation and aviation accidents, this kind of accumulation of risks is always taken into account. It may be that one risk factor is being endured, it may be that two are being put up with it, but when those risk factors start to accumulate more and more, then somewhere comes the line against the fact that it is no longer safe, but the risks become real and something that is not hoped to happen will happen. For example, bad weather in aviation is one risk factor, fatigue is another risk factor, hasty is a third risk factor. Uneducated staff, new equipment, strangers to each other, people who are too familiar with each other, foreign airport, foreign air traffic control, a foreign culture of activity, things along these lines, cumulate the risk factors that increase the risk of accidents. Let us see what this news today brings, and let us hope that the authorities have control of the situation and that nothing greater will happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u117	Mr President! Indeed, this is an important citizens' initiative and, in itself, the unfortunate continuation of this debate has taken place. At first, this was at such a promising time for citizens' initiative makers when here Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of the Environment Tiilikainen, President of the Central Parliamentary Group Kaikkonen and Minister of Transport and Communications Berner gave very promising speeches on how to maintain the activities at Malmi. Well, then, after a long journey, a year, we will eventually be on the basis of a one-page committee report. The operations have been transferred from Malmi Airport to Helsinki Airport for several years, and indeed that budgetary plan 2015-2018 stated that Malmi Airport will be taken into use for housing purposes and that the state operations will be discontinued in the field area as soon as possible, by 2020 at the latest. Well, at this point, when we are living in 2018, when we've been doing nothing for a year, we haven't been able to contact the City of Helsinki about the changes in the world, like the Prime Minister. Sipilä had previously promised, and we are already on an impossible mission. There is very little time until 2020 when it comes to the organisation of air transport or the possible equipping of airports. But, as we have said in committee, there is a real need for replacements, and for these different forms of air transport we must try immediately to organise them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u118	Mr President! For a moment now, we have been familiar with this draft statement made by Mr Raatikainen, and it is, in itself, tempting to take up that statement, because I still believe that the majority of the members of the committee are friends of Malmi and want to do everything possible to safeguard its operations, but when you look at it more closely and know that, in politics, the individual wordings and sentence structures are important to its overall and its conclusions, that draft statement by Mr Kiuru has been written in slightly poor Finnish, and it is unclear whether it is concerned about the actual air operations, including safety as Mr Kiuru said, or just about the airport. Then we have to take into account the fact that the agreements will now be in force until the end of 2019, and this draft statement by Mr Raatikainen states that ‘affluently completed at the airport’s concern about the airport,in terms of new services and functions,which has been raised by the committee. And when it is known, for example, that a private airport is under construction near Porvoo and there is a Kiikala airport in the other direction, in practice this proposal for a Raatikainen statement can only accelerate the construction of these fields and may even complicate the operation of Malmi Airport. All this has been taken into account in the committee report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u119	Mr President! This debate on Malmi Airport has been much discussed here and discussed this history section, which is what this is all about, in fact, 20 years of development, where both the City of Helsinki and the State in agreement have tried to organise matters in such a way that the state has moved operations away from Malmi Airport and then the City of Helsinki has, as it were, taken Malmi Airport into account in its own planning, where they can then concentrate housing construction. This is what's going on in a nutshell. And for obvious reasons, the citizens' initiative is now trying to change and secure the operation of Malmi Airport. And that's all, the citizens have the right to take citizens' initiatives, and this house will then deal with them. And here I believe that the committee has done a good job in its own report, has gone through this matter thoroughly and has concluded that, in fact, this initiative is not without any problems either for constitutional reasons. But then, perhaps the more central issue that has arisen in today's debate is the hand-washing that the Central Party, in particular, has been engaged in here today, bearing in mind the debate on the referral of the citizens' initiative from a year ago, where the Prime Minister and several other ministers were so sympathetic about this issue and promised to do their part. Well, now we have heard that no trade talks have been held here. No one has visited the city hall to present an audience that can then be discussed on the subject of the change of country between the state and the city. This has not been done, even though this was implied in the run-up to the elections. It is a little bad in the end if this policy goes to the fact that before the elections we are talking about another and then after the elections we are doing something else. Of course, the government parties already have some pretty good records on this one from the 2015 election.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u120	Madam President! Indeed, the committee has taken note of this challenging situation in this situation at Malmi Airport in its own reading. There are many friends of Malmi, as has been said in many speeches. Malmi raises the debate very widely in Finland. I myself am surprised by the statements that Helsinki could not, among other things, take part in airport operations. In Finland, many smaller cities, including Lappeenranta, are very actively involved in airport operations. If the capital of the country wants to become a metropolitan city, of course it wants to be involved in this, too, if only will and desire in Helsinki is enough. However, as the representatives of Helsinki have said here, Mayor Vapaavuori has very clearly pointed out in his own speeches: Helsinki needs a construction site and uses it for that purpose. It's in the hands of the municipal decision-makers in Helsinki, and that's probably what's gonna happen. It has been good here in this debate that it has been honestly stated that this decision was taken by the previous government. Now, in my opinion, Helsinki must be the proactive party here if it wants to give up that construction project, so that it does not offer such a wonderfully good construction area to the grynders, but wants to secure Malmi Airport operations. That is why I believe that Helsinki-based municipal decision-makers play a crucial role in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u121	Madam President! The Christian Democrats have been consistent both in the Helsinki Council Hall and in this Chamber, and we would like to keep Malmi Airport strictly in aviation use. Its role in aviation in the future in terms of security of supply and then as such a general aviation base is widely recognised, not to mention the responsibility of the City of Helsinki and the responsibility of Finland as a whole for the preservation of cultural heritage, also taking environmental considerations into account. After all, soil is not particularly favourable for construction, and I must say that the idea that Malmi should be kept in aviation use has been annoyed in this debate that it would mean that it would not be possible to build in that area at all. That's not true. Clear plans have been made that, if Malmi were to continue to be kept in aviation use, it would be possible to build moderately in that area. It could be built with perhaps between 5000 and 10 000 dwellings by condensing the housing stock in the area and by using the peripheral areas that are not necessarily required by the use of aviation in all respects. In that sense, it seems crazy that this idea has not been wanted to go further into research and reflection when it is indeed known that the soil is not suitable for such massive house-gryndage as is now being done in that area. As someone here has well said, we have seen a lot of handwashing in this area: that is what has been seen, and it is indeed a pity. However, I believe that there would have been such a common will to move this issue forward, but it seems that no one wants to take responsibility at this stage for letting this matter through this house in this way, as it were, on formal grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u122	Mr President! Personligen anser jag, förutom alla de säkerhetsaspecter som ledamot Kiuru valdigt bara var inne på, att Malms flygplats helt klart har en nationalell betydelse aven med tanke på mindre affärsflyg — for business flights — deras betydelse ökar.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u123	Madam President! Helsinki needs and needs, and for the future, it is essential that there is a city airport here, one that is particularly suitable and suitable for small aviation. I have to say in fact that when I have listened to Minister Berner, even between the lines, on this matter of Lex Malmi, there have been talks and negotiations with the City of Helsinki on this issue and are still there. You cannot say that or say that nothing has been done, that there has been no negotiation, that there has been no communication, and that has also come up in the hearing of our committee. I think it is important that we should also talk about it — when we would like to preserve Malmi Airport and these aviation activities there — that what it means is the interest and perspective of the State. It is not just a will or gesture or a act of good goodness, it also means pure money: what interest do we have in keeping the small airport of a city, when many provincial fields also cry out for funds and activities for that money as well? We will probably continue to talk about our network of air services, whether it is now comprehensive, whether it should be wider and so on, and it also needs that investment. But I personally feel that although Malmi Airport serves the needs of the whole of Finland in terms of small aviation, I still hope and want to see that the City of Helsinki sees the trees of the forest and this explosive growth of small aviation in the future. A city the size of Helsinki should now be
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u124	Madam President! Furthermore, as Mr Puska said earlier in this debate, what we have known and said here was that the central parliamentary group at the time, a year ago, unanimously supported the preservation of Malmi Airport. We know that the Prime Minister was active at the time and he spoke in which he said that the state would act in the direction that Malmi Airport could survive. Now we have been waiting a year and the state has not taken action in this regard. It has been said here in the past that the state has, however, done a certain sort of shutdown at Malmi, air traffic control missions and Border Guard missions have been driven down. Of course, if these opening speeches were to take place now, it would, of course, require a debate initiative from the state, a dialogue on these matters, which the Prime Minister promised before the elections. That is why I think it is quite right what Mr Räsänen has just said here in terms of terminology that some handwashing is now on the move from downtown. That is why, Mr President, I would like to say once again that, since there was a public debate in this arena on this important citizens' initiative, which I welcome — and I thank you very much at the time — that I always feel that citizens' initiatives should be dealt with seriously here in Parliament — I would also like to hear Prime Minister Sipilä's comments on this issue in the name of that debate. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister. I'm going to pick up some comments on this, but I haven't heard them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u125	Mr President! Indeed, when we look back at the debate on the referral of this citizens' initiative, there has rarely been a situation where three ministers have been in the ministerial committee during the debate on the referral of a single citizens' initiative, and now the question is, where are the three ministers — Minister Tiilikainen, Minister Berner and Minister Sipilä — today when this second reading takes place? Where are the speeches now, as the Prime Minister really said a year ago, that the government is prepared to maintain Malmi Airport? Then why can't we hear those speeches here today if that will is real? If the government really had the will to keep Malmi Airport in aviation use, then the government would have transferred those activities back to Malmi, which have been taken out of it, in connection with these air traffic control measures or, for example, if we were to consider, for example, Border Guard aviation activities. If the government really had a genuine will, then certainly something would have been done, and when nothing has been done, then the doubt arises that these were a bit of such traditional electoral speeches, i.e. municipal elections before it was easy to promise all-looking, to make a campaign here, and now after the election, however, there is no need to redeem this. At a time when we have ourselves raised expectations quite high, we cannot hide behind the Helsinki municipal decision-makers so that it is now their business to do what has been done here. The State has always had the opportunity to return to Malmi its operations that have been removed from it, but this has not been done. In this regard, Mr Centre Party, it is worth looking in the mirror.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u126	Madam President! I followed the debate in that office when I did not think about taking part in this debate, but there have been a few questions that have not been answered in this debate, such as those of Mrs Viitanen and Mr Räsänen, when, a year ago, in the referral debate under the Prime Minister's direction, three central ministers flagged for the adoption of this citizens' initiative and when Mr Kaikkonen knew that the central parliamentary group had rightly taken a group decision on this matter. The question of whether these were traditional electoral speeches just under the municipal elections has been left in the air and has not been answered. And when this question has been left in the air and has not been answered, I can answer that they were.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u127	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Zyskowicz, for that reply, although it may make me smile a little bit and make my speech difficult. However, Mrs Essayah pointed out that it is partly ineligible for construction. In the discussion of this citizens' bill, an expert consultation, it was pointed out that Helsinki is currently building housing areas on a more challenging ground floor. This is not an exceptionally bad construction ground for the capital region and Helsinki, but is currently being built on a worse ground. So there would not be the wrong impression that this is an exceptionally bad situation and therefore there should not be an extension of housing construction, so it is already already being built on a worse ground floor, and the city has made its decision and, together with the state, agreed to transfer air services, border guard missions from there to Helsinki Airport and then to a garrison's own destination.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u128	Madam President! It is, of course, a little embarrassing that we are referring here to ministers and representatives who are not here, [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u129	Madam President! For about ten years I was on the board of a company that first repaired and maintained aircraft at Malmi Airport and then at Helsinki Airport. Helsinki's own desire has been to turn the area of Malmi Airport into a residential building area, which I have greatly wondered about, mainly because if Helsinki can somehow maintain the belief that it is competitive with headquarters in Stockholm, Copenhagen, St.Petersburg and possibly Tallinn, then there must be another airport where commercial jets can come in practically at any time of the day. This is actually being presented by international companies as a critical factor, and at the moment it seems that Helsinki is giving this up. Stockholm has 100 headquarters in 90, Finland may have three, and this situation is getting worse. It is probably true that Helsinki is currently building on worse soil than Malmi's swamp-based soil, but in those areas where it is building on worse soil, the price per square metre of the dwelling is quite different, it is a Jätkässaari or something like this where the sea is visible. It seems that this is part-optimization, which also leads to a bad outcome for the City of Helsinki. This has already led to a bad outcome for many others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u130	Mr President! The further this debate goes, and the more I listen to the emergency guard speeches in the centre, the more surprised I am. Thank you, Mr Zyskowicz, for being honest here with us in replying to our question about whether it was an opening speech and Mrs Zyskowicz had come to the conclusion that it was. But, President, seriously, when we are dealing here before the elections with an important citizens' initiative, there are three central ministers here, including the Prime Minister, swearing to continue at Malmi Airport. Then one year will pass and we will have the same debate, and there will be disapproval from the centre that the opposition, for example, should not even ask after the government's position, because these ministers are not here. Would it be reasonable to assume that these ministers would now be in this Chamber with the same enthusiasm to tell us what has been done in the course of the year? In my opinion, it is in the normal order of business in Parliament that the government should enjoy the confidence of Parliament and that we have the right to ask questions to the government in this Chamber. It was also said here that the Prime Minister was entitled to his own opinion before the elections. Yes, and he also has exceptional power to act according to his own opinion, and that is the funniest, or not the funniest, far from it — I don’t know, crazy fun, or what should be said here — that he hasn’t carried out this exceptionally large power for a year to carry out his own opinion, which he told this hall and the Finnish people before the municipal elections. And thirdly, President, it was confirmed here today, and before the elections, the chairman of the Central Parliamentary Group, Mr Kaikkonen, said that this was a group decision. Does the parliamentary group not now have any say towards the central group of its government, when it is not even required that the government now respond by its own actions to the demands that the parliamentary group unanimously demanded then a year ago?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u131	Madam President! I am rather confused here by the speeches made by the representatives Räsänen and Viitanen and Kymäläinen, about politicisation in this matter, when we are about to overthrow this issue, about the city of Helsinki, on top of the government and the Prime Minister. I took note of Mr Kymäläinen's first speech, hopefully with some precision that the Prime Minister said a year ago that the government would be involved if: Helsinki is ready for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u134	Madam President! Just as we have heard here, I must say that I am very sorry that this possibility of this particular small-scale increase in housing production in the region has not been taken seriously, but, as Mrs Myllykoski has said here, it is being built on worse ground in Helsinki. It really is a shame if we build it. Mr Lehti well then said why is being built: there are apparently such expectations of profit, for example, with regard to those sea views and other supplements, which then even end up building on weaker soil. Building on a longer scale in such a salty area may prove to be an extremely expensive solution, as has been seen in various parts of Finland in areas where costly piles or similar have been made afterwards. Indeed, I would like to see that we are still prepared to maintain that area in aviation use and to increase that housing production by around 5000 to 10 000 dwellings, which is considered to be the case that, by condensing that area, also by using certain peripheral areas for construction purposes, we could do so, and then this daytime sleep of the grynderes would not be carried out. In that sense, I would have liked to have been able to do something other than wash your hands and, by appealing to these technicalities, slip away from this point of view. In this respect, I must say that, as far as the three ministers who were present in this referral debate were concerned, they would have wished that they had now been here to respond to the words that were being expressed during the referral debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u135	Mr President! Yes, it is true that when ministers are still raising people's expectations in such a matter, which is of great interest to them, because they are going to promise something, it is only right that when the matter approaches its end point, what has happened along the way — that is what this is all about — is to make it clear to the people. When we asked Mr Viitanen whether this was just an election speech a year ago, the government’s own district was also admitted at the mouth of Mr Zyskowicz that ‘yes, this was the case’ and that he had shown himself. When, Mr Vehkäperä, you said that this issue cannot be dealt with now, because the Constitution does not prevent it if, for example, the government had decided to move its activities back to Malmi. It's not the Constitution that's gonna stop it. The Constitution will prevent it if we start with such a single pattern change then dismantle it with individual legislation. It's not a problem-free thing. But there is no Constitution to prevent those activities that have previously been removed from Malmi from being transferred back if the government had the will, but I believe there is no will. Or when the central parliamentary group has taken a unanimous decision that we are in favour of preserving Malmi, surely the parliamentary group will also have some sort of lever for the government of the country, for example, to have the funds reserved to return to Malmi, for example, the Border Guard's helicopter operations. Such initiatives have not been seen in this Chamber, and in that sense we will only come to the conclusion that yes, it is a matter of handwashing and it was quite a election speech a year ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u136	Madam President! On the same subject as Mr Puska and Mr Vehkaperä are trying to convince me that this was not a question of so-called electoral speeches for the centre. Yes, it is a pretty strong assurance for citizens' initiativers if the entire central parliamentary group makes a unanimous decision to save Malmi Airport and then all ministers are actually marched here to make convincing speeches, always with the Prime Minister. After all, it is now, for God's sake, a rather unfortunate end to the citizens' initiatives and those who have signed the citizens' initiative, after all these beautiful speeches and after what has been said that... You, Mr Vehkaperä, spoke of a bird perspective, about having looked at Helsinki from a bird perspective and there would be a lot of green areas that could be offered for construction and so on, and now you tell us that the government parties have been in contact with the City of Helsinki after all, according to your insurance, even though here the representatives of the City of Helsinki have said that this has not happened, but if so, will you tell us what alternative areas have been offered to Helsinki when you know about these things? And perhaps you can also answer the question of why this citizens' initiative went so far, a year from now, why it had to lie on the table, why there was no response to this earlier — now that we have come up with ideas of development, how we could develop and other things, we lost one year here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u137	Madam President! I have been following this debate for over 30 years, as I understand it. In the early stages, the environment felt that air traffic was a disturbing factor, since then aircraft noise levels have been substantially reduced, and this year the first small-scale electric aircraft will be on the market. As battery technology develops, the development is moving in the direction of electric efficiency. The closest field project I know to replace Malmi is in Askola. There's been a lot of research. The Sipoo Box has found suitable soil, but landowners don't like it very much. They've been looking at Mäntsälä. All of these The downside of those beyond Malmi Airport is that organ transplants are difficult for them, and that is what these small aircraft do in practice. It would really be worth looking at this as a whole and not just within the municipal boundaries. When the Vuosaari port railway was built, it should have been connected directly to the part of the Kerava-Porvoo track, where the Sipoo area would have become clearly, say, a residential area operating from the point of view of train traffic. In my opinion, this option of Malmi is short-sighted, and finding a good field place as good as Malmi is practically impossible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u138	Madam President! Everything is going to be essential here, but when I speak about this safety issue, Eurocontrol.int says that now the backup systems have been made to work reasonably. In other words, I said earlier that the European air traffic control system is red and has moved on to backup systems. This is a serious reminder that this kind of virtual duplication is not necessarily enough, but is needed for a real duplication of exceptional situations. It may seem a bit like painting devils on the walls when the situation is more or less normal. Snow is not an abnormal situation; it is a predictable situation. These things happen constantly, but much larger, difficult to predict can happen. We must also be ready then, and alternative fields are quite far from this Malmi site.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u139	Mr President! However, it is very easy to agree with Mr Viitanen's statement just now that it would have been very good for the government ministers, and especially the leading ministers in the centre, to be here today in Parliament to tell us what they have actually done over the past year to get the decision-makers of Helsinki to the negotiating table or, alternatively, to move their activities back to Malmi, as Mr Räsänen has just said. Whether or not such a debate has taken place, i.e. between ministers and the decision-makers of the City of Helsinki, at least nothing very concrete has been achieved despite the vigorous positions of the ministers of the city centre just before the municipal elections. We are well aware of this position in the centre. Mr Zyskowicz also suspected here that it was probably just a municipal stunt in the city centre. Well, unfortunately, now it seems that this fate of Malmi Airport will soon be sealed. But that is why Mr Raatikainen has made a proposal during this debate to oblige the Government to ensure the continuity of aviation operations at Malmi Airport, at least until the completion of an airport that guarantees similar functions. This is also important for Finland as a whole from a security perspective, of which a representative Mr Kiuru has just made an important point here. Mr President! I therefore hope that the parliamentary group in the centre will also be able to support this proposal by Mr Raatikainen, who has even been so strongly criticised today by the government partner in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u140	Madam President! I have already thought that I have spoken about this, but it has occurred to me that, when there is quite a lot of Members here asking for the Prime Minister's position and for the central ministers' position on this matter, it might now be reasonable, for example, for the centre to be required as a parliamentary group, when you have also had this group decision, that at some point the Prime Minister should also tell us what the government has done and what he has done to ensure that the promises he made in the run-up to the elections are fulfilled. I think it would be a good idea to state the tone of this debate in this relationship and, in my opinion, these honourable Members' legitimate questions about what has been done to cover the speeches that the Prime Minister made a year ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u141	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-03-ps-28.u142	Mr President! This proposal by the government for a new law on radiation and some related laws is a very broad package and certainly deserves a detailed committee reading. The Radiation Act is intended to protect the health of citizens against adverse effects of radiation, and regulation is therefore very detailed, which is necessary as a result of the continuous increase in the amount of radiation and the exposure to radiation. Mr President! I would like to draw attention to one more detail in this government proposal. In this proposal and its explanatory statement, asylum seekers who registered as minors in 2015 were subjected to 149 age studies requested by the authorities on the basis of their own assessment, and in these tests as many as 90 out of 149 cases, i.e. around 60%, proved to be over 18 years of age. The methods used are mainly dental and wrist X-rays, which are highly reliable. This bill continues to state that in 2016, some 630 age studies were already carried out. Unfortunately, however, the proposal does not say how many of these showed that the applicant was of age. Mr President! From the point of view of health care, these age tests are very well regulated by this bill, and I think, and also by other representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, that they should be extended to all asylum seekers who have registered as minors, so that the procedure would be equal for all applicants who have registered as minors.
