ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 4. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u2	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new seed law, and the existing seed trade law is proposed to be repealed. So we're in the beginning of life. The bill has been updated and the definitions have sought to be consistent with other laws. The Finnish Food Authority and Customs would also be the supervisory authority. The proposal takes account, in my opinion, of the changed Union legislation, so that matters concerning the approval, investigation and supervision of private laboratories are now new provisions in this law. At present, testing of plant varieties and testing of agricultural value are only laid down in a regulation, but the proposal would provide for them in the future to be governed by law. As a new administrative coercion, a penalty payment is proposed, which is probably appropriate as a sanction. However, it should not be used lightly, and making a remark and warning must be a primary sanction. The seed trade law has originally been aimed at promoting high quality seed production and this objective has not changed anything; it remains an important objective. However, there will continue to be challenges in improving the utilisation rate of certified seeds. In particular, in the case of special crops, the challenge is to have sufficient seed yields, so the quantities of certified seed are currently not in line with demand. A clause on strict liability has been found to be a problematic area of the seed trade law. It is considered to treat Finnish operators unequally compared to other operators in the Community seed sector. For example, what is the relationship of an organic farmer with a so - called conventional farmer? Does the present law treat both equally? At least that's what it should do. For vegetable importers and the seed potato sector in particular, the demands for strict liability have often been excessive. Even in the 21st century, vegetable importers are not yet able to guarantee the quality of the seed imported, but are entirely dependent on the information provided to them by the foreign operator. But if there is a problem, the seed importer has full liability. In seed potatoes, some diseases are both seed and terrestrial. In addition, root rot, for example, can be found hidden in potatoes at the time of inspection, so the control of the diseases associated with seed potatoes is often very problematic. The seed sector has proposed that the article on strict liability should either be amended or deleted altogether. It is clear that it is in the interests of seed entrepreneurs to curb the marketing of unchecked seed. This, too, is why a new, rapid penalty mechanism, i.e. a penalty payment, will contribute to this. I believe that this article on strict liability may be as it is, but, as I said earlier, it should be used prudently and with a common sense. It should be noted when the act is deliberate and when it is not. In any case, this seed legislation will allow us to deal with irregularities and omissions, even though it does not always prevent the trade and marketing of grey seed. In that sense, too, I welcome the proposal that it will have no significant financial impact and this will reduce the administrative burden and reduce the number of inspections carried out by the Food Agency, as some of the inspections can be carried out as documentary checks in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u3	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 7. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u4	Madam President! There is now a government proposal on light cars, i.e. a government proposal to amend the vehicle law and the driving licence law and some related laws. The Government's proposal proposes the introduction of a new national category of T-category vehicle, a light-duty vehicle with a reduced speed of up to 45 km/h for the passenger car. The transport of a light-duty car would require a 15-year age for mopeds and an AM-category driving licence. The proposal is based on improving road safety and mobility opportunities for young people. The aim is to enable a new form of mobility, especially for young people, between 15 and 17 years of age. Young people move a lot, often using mopeds or mopeds, especially in areas where public transport services are limited. A light-duty car would add a new alternative to mopeds and mopeds. The introduction of a light-duty car is expected to partially replace existing mobility instruments for young people, which is why it is estimated that the introduction of light-duty vehicles will reduce the number of injuries and deaths caused by young road accidents. The safety of mopeds, in particular, has been the subject of debate throughout Parliament's existence, and I too have been asked at least half a dozen times in the written questions of representatives of different parties about allowing a passenger car with limited speed to be used by young people. It is therefore great to be able to respond to this long and wide-ranging issue with the government's proposal at hand. The light-duty car should be moved from a passenger car up to 10 years old, which was introduced after 2014. The age requirement of the car aims to ensure that young drivers can benefit from more recent and at the same time safer and more environmentally friendly cars. A balance has been struck between making light cars as safe as possible and reaching as many young people as possible. After 10 years the light-duty car should be tested back as a passenger car if it is still used in traffic. A young person could therefore continue to use the vehicle as a passenger car after obtaining a driving licence for a passenger car. I would also like to point out that the EU Commission has raised certain concerns about the compatibility of the proposals with EU legislation. We have also expressed these Commission positions openly in the government's proposal. There has been concern about both the technical provisions and the provisions of the Driving Licence Directive concerning the definition of tractors. However, the government considers that there is scope for interpretation in EU regulations and that the proposal would not conflict with them. This need for interpretation has also been highlighted in discussions with the Commission. However, the main objective of the directive on driving licences in particular is to improve road safety, and from that point of view we have also set out in this proposal. The Ministry of Transport and Communications will continue to discuss the matter with the Commission and we will ensure that our arguments for defending our own interpretation come up. Mr President! Here's my show. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u5	Looks like we're gonna need to have a little debatation on this one. I would ask those Members who wish to use the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u6	Mr President! As the Minister said, this is something that has been addressed in this Chamber for many years and during many governments, and now we have finally found a way to resolve it. This security, which is actually at the heart of the whole issue, is actually being approached on two different sides. Some approach the driver from a safety point of view and others fear that the mass of the vehicle will undermine pedestrian safety. What is your assessment, since mopeds would be equipped with such active safety equipment and systems that know, for example, pedestrians? Or is safety improving with this performance, when they come through normal cars?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u7	Mr President! The safety of our young people and other road users in transport is a matter for all of us. The Government's proposal in the referral would make it possible to replace a moped with a speed-limited passenger car, i.e. a light car. This change must be supported and improved in terms of road safety. A light-duty car means a passenger car whose maximum speed in the performance is limited to 45 km/h with a control device. I am sure that the maximum speed is still being weighed in committee, and I would like to ask the Minister: what views have been considered in the preparation of the maximum speed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u8	Madam President! Indeed, this legislative reform certainly largely builds on the questions and concerns about mopeds and their safety, and this has now been called for in its own way. Here are some of the things about which feedback and concerns have come in advance. As regards, for example, the smooth flow of traffic, professional drivers have highlighted the fact that more vehicles will then be on the road in a slower way. Another worrying aspect is transport emissions, which is now a very topical issue. This may conflict with the objectives of energy policy. But I expect that we will have an interesting hearing in committee and that information will increase. I was also thinking about the concern that these young people would be out of public transport, but I would remind you that in rural and rural towns at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u9	Mr President! The presentation, which has probably been prepared and discussed for a long time, has its advantages, but also its challenges. On the other hand, that speed of 45 kilometers is low. At least outside the agglomeration, it can cause problems with traffic flow, as vehicles are not as easily identifiable as slow vehicles as mopeds. Then, on the other hand, the maximum speed of 60 kilometres would produce quite a bit of energy for that car, because even though it is called a light car, it still weighs the same as a normal car. So that would be a big risk for pedestrians by now. This is quite the answer to the question of how we are going to respond to this challenge. Secondly, there is the risk of market failures in the already paralysed two-wheeler market. How are we going to answer that?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u10	Mr President! Yesterday there was indeed much news about this IPCC report, where our common concern is how we can reduce CO2 emissions, and transport plays an extremely important role. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister: how have we now assessed what this will mean from the point of view of our transport emissions, because it is clear that when more cars enter the road, so will emissions increase? I myself have a great deal of concern about the development of public transport in those areas where it is already limited. After this, incentives will be reduced if some public transport users then resort to this car. And we should find various other solutions for mobility, such as making more use of the sharing economy. This is driving this development in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u11	Madam President! This is indeed a welcome performance for light cars at this time of day. A number of concerns have been raised here, and I would like to raise the issue, in particular, of this speed, 45 kilometres per hour, because this will lead to a situation where, in the future, the tractor will be able to bypass light cars and then the young people will be driving on both devices. Tractors are allowed a speed of 60 km/h, and I personally think it is important that this speed of light cars should also be checked to see if it can be raised to 60 km/h. Secondly, this climate change debate is taking place. I am not afraid that there will be more cars, but when a so-called normal car is strangled to travel 45 or 60 km/h, it is quite clear that its car’s emission values are significantly higher than in normal traffic, and this should also be taken into account during the hearings.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u12	Madam President! I have had certain expectations in advance of what I would do as a parent, whether I would get my child a moped or not, and this has been such a welcome whole for this, and I greet it freshly. But I have to say, when you have more insight into this matter, that there is a side and a side to it. It is a climate perspective, but of course this whole mass does not mean that in addition to mopeds, the total amount is easily said in the proposal, but that they should be changed. Mrs Jalonen has already brought this pedestrian, and it was mentioned in other speeches that how it has been considered whether a light car is safer for pedestrians than a moped with no quality requirements or development targets for pedestrian collisions. How does the Minister see this aspect of security?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u13	Mr President! In the morning, a few members of the Committee on Transport and Communications visited us to see what it is like to drive these light cars. It tested the car with the speed limiter, and I tried to push the gas very hard — but as if the brakes were on. It just couldn't make it any faster, no matter how hard you tried to drive. That's really good. It's a car that I could get my own kid to ride in. It really felt safe to sit there inside, and it felt like this is the kind of car that needs to be. That I wouldn't want to put my own kid on a motorcycle. But then one of the things I'm still wondering about is now this rotation of speed limiters, and how can we be sure that these qualified young people today can't snap at those devices and systems on the computer so that suddenly they're just laughing at us that they've given us such devices that it's easy to get around these things?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u14	Madam President! We've been waiting for this show for a long time. As I recall, as early as 2013, Mr Kalle Jokinen, here in the Chamber of Parliament, created the idea of light cars, and since then we have been talking about this and we have finally got a proposal here in the Chamber. This is a very good proposal. The positive thing about this is that cars are not permanently damaged, but can be converted when the light-duty period ends, into ordinary cars and their life cycle can continue through it. It is also good that a number of new cars are registered as light cars, unlike, for example, in Sweden, where light cars are mostly old scraps, to be frank. The speed limit has been mentioned here, and in the presentation it is 45 km/h. I'm sure it's a good idea for us to have a debate on that. Reasonable points have been made that the speed limit should be and could be 60 km/h. This is certainly something that we in the committee are considering.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u15	Madam President! The core of transport policy should, at least in my opinion, be in the development of road safety. For its part, road safety is a flexible transport system, which is also often a safe transport system. In this regard, I am, in principle, positive about the government's proposal to look for new ways of increasing road safety for young people. However, as several Members have already said, there are many questions to be asked, and I hope that in committee they will be answered with the utmost precision. Policies are often also concepts and phenomena, and now such a concept has been introduced as a light car. However, when you read a government motion, the total mass of a light car can be 3,500 kg, written according to this motion, that is, when you talk about the total mass of a vehicle. However, I would also like to say that we should not just stare at climate issues. Now light cars with internal combustion engine technology can also become electric cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u16	Mr President! I must thank Minister Berner for this. The proposal is very welcome and is supported by parents who wish their children safe mobility equipment and also reasonableness to the price level that is now being compared. Two things: On speed: It is clear that it could be a little faster than 45 kilometers an hour. Of course, the risks are there, as mentioned in the proposal, but they must be carefully considered precisely in terms of mobility and vehicle technology; they can easily drive even 10 kilometres an hour faster. But on the issue of emissions: I would not like to be intimidated here by trying to prevent this project by regulating it to make vehicles undriving, because it concerns a very small number of vehicles. If there are currently 8100 mopeds and according to the scenario there will be 12,000 vehicles, up to 40,000 vehicles through this, then it cannot now trip over the issue of emissions. Let's not make this a regulatory jungle.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u17	Mr President! I would like to extend warm thanks to Minister Berner because the bill makes it easier for young people between the ages of 15 and 17 who live in rural areas, because access to school so far has been difficult and parents too have to drive to different hobbies. So in the countryside, it's necessary. As far as speed is concerned, I think that 45 kilometers an hour is quite a small speed. It could be reviewed at a later stage when this comes into force from the beginning of next year. After all, a light car is taxed in the same way as other cars. The main point is that this kind of light car is much safer than moped cars, they have nothing but plastic shells around them. I hope that Mr Berner will also be able to sleep well after this government's presentation, and we will only wish him a good night's sleep.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u18	Madam President! I too would like to thank the Minister for this presentation and thank him. Increasing safety is something to be expected for a very long time, especially in view of many of our young drivers. Not only have mopeds been expensive, but they have been more like cardboard boxes for safety: while driving a big Mercedes, his own son miraculously survived that pile of crevices. But I would have liked to ask the Minister again and specify: as these cars, which look like conventional cars, are now moving much slower in that traffic, in what way would these cars become sufficiently visible as slow-moving vehicles? And on the other hand, I would have liked to ask again: What routes do these light cars have access to? What limitations are planned in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u19	Mr President! There have been tragic accidents with these mopeds, which have caused quite a lot of human suffering, and it is really a big deal now that we are making the movement of young people much safer with this light-duty car. I also acknowledge, in this respect, Minister Berner that this has been achieved at EU level. This is something that many transport people here in Parliament have long been pushing for. As far as this environmental impact is concerned, we must remember that there are two words in public transport: there is a number and there is transport. If there are no troops, it will be difficult to organise public transport. In other words, just as Mr Mäkipää said, this is precisely the case of young people in rural areas, that they can move in this way. I am quite sure that our young people today are so environmentally aware that they are using public transport where public transport is available,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u22	Mr President! I would like to add my voice to Mr Satos' speech. Indeed, in the sparsely populated area too, young people need to get around to hobbies, including school and so on. I live in a sparsely populated area too, and I have noticed that there is a lot of driving on tractors now, with big, heavy tractors, when parents don't have time to carry them. I'm sure it doesn't make much sense for the environment. The tractor is meant for something else. I remember when this moped reform came and perhaps not all aspects were considered when it came into force. Now this light car is clearly better for road safety. Of course, we in the Committee on Transport and Tourism are looking at this whole package as to whether there are still some things to be regulated here, but as a whole this is a good thing and gives young people the opportunity to move where there really are no other options available.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u23	Mr President! The UN Climate Panel reported alarming information the other day. Minister Berner immediately announced the urgent need for action in the field of transport to reduce emissions. We had a parliamentary working group that outlined the strategy of halving emissions from transport. There one option was to increase cycling and walking by 30 percent. How, then, does this now fit into our strategy when 40,000 light cars come to school for school children when they should at least be carried out by bicycle in urban areas? This will have the opposite effect on the reduction of these emissions. This will increase emissions. At least in Seinäjoki, there are most mopeds in the upper secondary school yard and in the upper secondary school yard. Then it would be better for young people to ride or walk.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u24	Mr President! Really, yesterday was climate Monday, and now it seems to be a very ordinary Tuesday. Unfortunately, there is a motion for a vehicle tax before Parliament, which does not have this sufficient emission control either. I would like to see even stronger statements from the Minister and the Government here. As far as this issue of the moped is concerned, I believe that this must be approached ahead of road safety. So we have seen the unfortunate deaths, injuries to young people who are caused by the light and poor structures of these mopeds. In that sense, it is important that Parliament looks at this from the point of view of road safety. But at the same time we have to take these environmental issues seriously and the fact that when we correct one problem, then we do not create another problem in that place.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u25	Madam President! Just as Mr Haavisto has pointed out, it is above all about improving road safety. The maximum speed allowed for this proposal would be 45 km/h, but it is worth assessing in committee, as Mr Satone has said here, whether it will be raised to 60 km/h, for example. But let's hear the experts and then we'll see. It is also important to note that a passenger car which has more than 10 years since the end of the year of entry into service must not be converted into a light-duty vehicle. In other words, this is the solution which seeks to take account of road safety. It is also estimated that the number of moped accidents will decrease, which means that this will also have a significant impact. And like a representative Mäkipää here pointed out, especially in rural areas, that the mobility of young people through this will be made easier for school, work and hobbies, and I must say this as a Northern Espoonian, from outside Ring 3, as a rural person to the people of Helsinki, that it will be easier for us as well. So even in this capital region, the situation would improve in addition to road safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u27	Madam President! Lightweight cars — I prefer to talk about youth cars myself — are welcome, safer alternatives. They are safer for the driver, but they are also safer for pedestrians. Real cars today are going through the highly demanding Euro NCAP tests, which are currently focusing more on these collisions with pedestrians. And it must also be borne in mind that when I am in favour of increasing the speed limit to 60, the maximum speed limit in urban areas is 40, in Helsinki in many places 30, and then there is no problem with the car going a little faster. As has been pointed out here, we are now in the process of creating a situation where a young person on an ATV can drive for 60, the tractors will pass through these, so we should increase the speed limit to 60. It is also worth considering whether it would be more sensible to just write them down.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u28	Madam President! Thank you very much, Minister Berner, for the fact that this government proposal has now entered the Chamber. This has been discussed for a long time and on many occasions, and has also been caused by some very bad motor vehicle accidents. They have produced this debate, and now this government proposal is here in the Chamber. I myself would not talk so much about light cars — a light car has been mentioned here. I understand this is a normal, normal car with speed limitations. Then it is a so-called strangled car from the engine: it can only run at a certain speed. It's important. But I would also say that young people are smart and also know how to handle those cars. That's a good thing, and I trust young people. Then, too, I have wondered whether it is 50 miles [45 km] an hour or 60 miles [60 km] an hour. I hope that this will be discussed in committee. But then one more thing I would like to raise: when there are cars that run at a certain speed and are in traffic,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u29	Madam President! A light car show is a good bill, and even better when a little bit of it is made. There has been talk of speed here, and I would agree that it would be much better if the 60 km/h car were turned into a light car and used by parents when it had the 60 km/h speed limit. In other words, the number of cars would not necessarily increase as much as expected, and emissions would not increase. And that family shopping bag would go to the kids and the parents to go to the grocery store. After all, many parents now do not want to go to that wheeled toupper hazard dump when it is unsafe and does not go fast enough and perhaps can be ashamed. That's why it's good that it's the 60-mile-an-hour thing. And I wouldn't call this a youth car, since it's for parents too, which means that the light car is a much better name, and it would also be a lot safer than that moped. If I could say so again, these dark glasses could be banned from these light cars, and we would see
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u30	Madam President! I submitted a written question on the matter on 8 March 2013. In the explanatory memorandum to the question, I then proposed turning this into a light car with a speed of 45 km/h. I can afford to give up and raise it to 60 kilometres an hour, as has been said in many of these speeches. It would then be much more flexible and flexible towards other road users and would go relatively smoothly in that traffic flow. Many speakers have been concerned about what will happen if a vehicle hits pedestrians. As an officer of traffic control myself, I prefer to worry about how the vehicle does not collide with pedestrians. In other words, attention should now be paid to the fact that these collisions do not occur — here we are talking about the fact that if the collision occurs — and precisely the structural speed. And I would also like to comment on this issue of public transport and say that, as I see it, these modern light-duty cars are also engaged in public transport: there may be six or seven young people in the same car, even if they are allowed to be two.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u31	Madam President! I regret that this new government proposal had not gone so far as to reach the last page. Here it was found that 1,500 pounds is the maximum load for this — I noticed when I watched the minister’s speech. In fact, against that background, I am asking about the fact that this limit has been mentioned here if the propulsion of the vehicle is non-electric. Electric cars weigh a lot because battery technology also weighs a lot. How, Minister, can you see whether, even if reference is made to the theme of the climate panel, this law will allow our young people in the future to drive an electric car with real car structures and the associated safety technology? In addition to that, this draft law has also included these critical points of view on this draft law. I hope all the criticisms are properly reviewed, Madam Secretary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u32	Mr President! This proposal for a new national category of T-vehicles, light-duty cars, or limited passenger cars, as has been heard here, must be supported. Mobility, especially outside public transport and among young people, will be facilitated, and safety will also be improved. This is also an indication that we legislators will be able to react more quickly — there are many written questions and legislative initiatives behind this. And thank you also to Minister Berner, and also to the previous Minister for Transport, Mrs Kyllöne, on the European level, which has contributed to this. But I will draw attention to the same thing as Mrs Torniainen here earlier. I was thinking something about the first time I heard about light cars that that weight class was limited. But that weight class is not restricted, it is precisely slow cars, as Mr Kari has said earlier. I would ask the Minister if it could be a ‘slow-speed car’ and not a ‘light-light’ car’, or whether it can be said by someone in English that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u33	And then we take the Minister's answer, three minutes. — Here you go, Minister Berner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u34	Madam President! Lightweight cars are equipped with the latest safety equipment when it is defined in such a way that it must not be more than ten years old. At the same time, in the case of a moped, the technical requirements come from legislation, which means that we will not be able to influence them individually. We do not have public transport services all over the world in the same way, and so we really need to weigh our climate and safety concerns in parallel, but also the alternative mobility of young people. There are separate plates for these vehicles. This means that they can be identified and is also intended to facilitate police surveillance. We have had a lot of discussions in preparation as to whether the speed is 45 km or 60 km. There are valid arguments for both solutions, and I would ask the committee to consider this further and see what these arguments look like. 45 kilometers is safer for pedestrians, the environment, perhaps for young people themselves. From the perspective of traffic flow, 60 kilometres may be safer, but this also varies according to different roads and conditions. This is not a simple question, and I am sure that it will require further scrutiny and consideration. These vehicles are not allowed to drive on the motorway. I would also consider it important that these do not exclude walking and cycling, which are high on our agenda, but also that we create more opportunities. At the same time, it may also be worth noting that it is estimated that young transport performances will increase by between 1.2% and 4.4% with this proposal, but at the same time the driving of young people will decrease, and this will lead to a certain change, but the overall mobility may not change as much as we have thought. This issue of emissions has also been much evaluated. Trafi has carried out an assessment of the system for calculating exhaust emissions and energy consumption. Emissions from existing mopeds, motorcycles and mopeds have been estimated and then we have seen what this light car would bring to this side. Fuel consumption is increasing somewhat, but it is precisely a question that can be resolved in the future so that the power shift will continue to take place towards electronic traffic. On the other hand, particulate matter emissions are decreasing and carbon monoxide emissions are decreasing, so we are talking about the sum of many things and an overall assessment, but on the basis of which we have considered that this proposal serves common objectives, especially from a safety point of view, and we want to be behind this proposal from that point of view. The newer car fleet is also more emission-friendly, and these so-called light cars are also subject to stricter emission restrictions than those currently imposed on mopeds, for example. I hope that the debate on these aspects can also take place in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u35	Looks like they still want to go to the debatt. There is also a list of speakers waiting, but let's take a short debate here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u36	Madam President! The Minister well pointed out this fork between 45 km and 60 km. It really is a job that we must do well in committee, because it is clear that the impact energy is multiple in such a limited car with a larger mass. But with regard to safety, I would like to mention this educational claim, which is one of the concerns, because these limited mopeds are now able to travel with a much lighter training claim when compared to passenger cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u37	Mr President! As has been noted in the debate, this is a complex issue and there are many approaches. I see that this speed is of interest, as it has already mentioned us in the preparatory phase, but as chairman of the committee, I can tell you that these matters will be dealt with very carefully. One thing you have to remember when you talk about speed is the pure laws of physics: speed times mass is there in the background. However, I would also like to remind you that this does not remove mopeds, but can also buy a moped if you wish. This is an alternative to that. I also recommend cycling, and the electric bicycle helps it well. But the committee
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u38	Madam President! Thank you very much to the Minister for this proposal. This is indeed a long-thought-out issue. I myself have visited the Automotive Damage Center several times to look at the row of these mopeds, and when they come into redemption from a very small point of view, this is a big cost, let's say, in the case of equipment made of weak material. It's great to get into this kind of normal car fleet and indeed a newer strain. In fact, I would like to ask — and I did not see it through to the end — what it is like to use these cars, whether a trailer or a trailer can be drawn on a towing hook. It would be nice to go on a trip like this, but then that snail would be even quieter against you on the road. Secondly, the marking and the winter weather. The light car is also safer in winter weather, but it should be marked with attention when it comes from there against the snow. Even now, mopeds surprise me, but when this track gauge is different in mopeds, there's probably been some damage in the winter, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u39	Mr President! I thank the Minister for this unbiased national proposal. This is essential for the safety of young people. Parliament's motorcycle club in 2012 organised a seminar here on the safety of mopeds, and it was examined, and it was found that it is structurally and with characteristics that are not necessarily suitable for Finnish conditions, at least during the winter. It has then started a debate on that too, including much more. Personally, I think that this is a good solution, and it is also because, at least in the past, when I have transported children within 15 kilometres to a hobby, two journeys have been made for them, now that a young person can drive his own future light car.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u40	Madam President! Mr Pirttilahti took this into account, that how they go into redemption, that they break down easily. I was in one of the garages, there was a moped to fix. When the trunk was closed, the glass was broken. They said it was the third time the same car was there. It's going to cost you a lot of money to wear these rhymes. It would be good to make them fit, durable. Now to this limited speed of the moped. At the moment, when it is 50 miles [45 km] an hour, they usually come fluently among traffic at 60. Now, if we get light cars, how does that restriction actually happen — well, we probably don't know yet — that they're not going to drive 90, but that it's really going to be 60? The warning triangle behind it should be a little better. I mean, it's coming up there in the snow all of a sudden, and there's gonna be a silent car. Although it may be Toyota Aygo, it's the same size as a moped, and you don't always know if it's a moped or a normal car.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u41	Madam Speaker! In my opinion, this law serves very much young people, especially in sparsely populated areas, who go further than school, who are usually not so easily on public transport. When I myself went to the countryside to talk to the parents, which would be their wish for the arrangement of these things, they have talked a lot about such a reduced driving licence age that an older student could drive the children of the family to school and home, that's all. I was wondering that I of course think this is a good compromise with regard to taking this kind of safe car as a vehicle. When the moped is not safe, this would be a good addition. But have you thought about reducing the age of driving licences to 16 years in full? In my opinion, at least on a light motorbike, young people are driving their 80s right over there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u42	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers. When we talk about the name of a type of car like this: a youth car — I suppose it is possible for others than young people; a light car — it is not always light; in other words, I would go for this slow car when it describes this speed. But maybe more seriously two more things. The minister raised the possibility of electric cars in this context, and I would like to hear a little more about whether this could actually launch an electric car category for shorter trips or even for urban use, which would have such a positive environmental impact. Another point on which I would have liked to have heard the Minister's reply. The idea was thrown out that if the limit is 60 kilometers an hour, many of the family’s second cars will be converted into commercial bags if it is somehow more tax-friendly and other. Is this, and do we open here, some new category this way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u43	Madam President! There's been a lot of questions about security here. I would have liked to ask again about the fact that when the debate was about the bill, whether it was thought or whether it was on the table, for example, whether the safety triangle in the back could be seen in a bit of a brake light. So, while adjusting the car to move slower, a triangle would be placed behind it, which would appear lit like brake lights, so that it would be visible in all weather and also in the dark of autumn. Then there's another thing. At least a couple of delegates actually brought out these darkened glasses. In other words, whether there was a debate about banning these cars from wearing these darkened glasses, because it could improve safety in many respects, especially for young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u44	Madam President! Thank you very much, Minister Berner, for bringing this bill to Parliament. I would like to address this specifically from the safety point of view. It is good that cars are newer than 2014 because most of them already have both ABS brakes, airbags and anti-slip systems. Some of the representatives raised environmental issues, but I am convinced that even emissions from these modern light-duty vehicles are lower than emissions from those smoking mopeds, which have hardly ever seen any catalysts. If the Committee on Transport and Communications changes the speed from 45 to 60, then I think it is necessary to have that slow vehicle triangle back there. Today they are so effective that even without separate lighting they reflect adequately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u45	Mr President! It is probably appropriate in sparsely populated areas for this light-duty vehicle to be introduced, but, at the moment, mopeds are being used in cities. A few kilometres of school trip is made by a moped and then in the future it is made by a light car. We have a strategy for cycling and walking, which should now be implemented, so that measures are taken to ensure that young people go cycling or walking on school trips, because, however, health experts say that the condition and body mass index of young people have risen considerably in recent times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u46	Mr President! I must thank the Minister, because quite a few Members of Parliament from different parties have been very active in this matter since last season, but before this goes forward, it must also be the Minister's consent, and now it is, and I am very pleased that we are going to go, because this clearly improves the mobility of young people and also road safety. Cars taken after or after 2014 are already safe, and emissions are also quite lower than those of old cars. But one thing that also has to do with this road safety and which has a very personal experience: if there is a little squalor or other bad weather, then this speed difference is not apparent to all drivers, and if you drive quietly in front of the car, it is not really clear that it is a slower moving vehicle. I would like you to draw attention in committee to the fact that it is sometimes a reflective yellow light flashing or something else that actually shows from a distance that there is a slower-driving vehicle. I think it's a big security issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u47	Congressman Hakanen, and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u48	Madam President! This government proposal is extremely welcome and has long been awaited. This is indeed a praiseworthy minister and, in particular, a thank you for the work that has been done for the Finns, for our own young people. This is vigorous work that the Minister has done, and that is the end result. This must now be completed quickly through the committee. A couple of things to do with security issues. At home, when you meet your own young people, you see how they mourn their friends who have died in a motorcycle crash, and that is quite touching when you talk about how to increase that security, and here comes one good alternative to it. Let's talk about a car with speed limitations. When driven by that speed-restricted car, it also prepares directly for driving instruction, and then, as an adult, for the driving wheel of a normal car. But as far as speed is concerned, I think it could be 60 klicks an hour. And also this age of the car and the difference between the accessories in a car under 10 or less than 15 years ago: the skids, ABS, airbags have been in the cars for 15 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u49	And now, Minister Berner's answer, please, for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u50	Thank you, Madam President. If I go back to this last one, then we have left that the vehicle should not be more than 10 years older. It involves not only many safety equipment, but above all more stringent emission restrictions, which are part of this whole. After all, these vehicles must not be more than 1500 kg of their own mass. Perhaps that is why this name, the light car, has become that this car cannot be the size of the heaviest head overall. Trailer and tinted glasses can be regulated more precisely by a regulation, and I will certainly take these matters with me and we will take them into account in this debate and in further preparation. Mrs Wallin, I fully agree that promoting walking and cycling is one of the most important things we can do for everyone, including young people. However, I believe that this will not be done by denying the creation of a light car category, but by finding the right conditions for walking and cycling, which we are also taking forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u51	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u52	Madam President! We have a regional song in Häme that states that if action is taken, it usually happens. Thank you, Mr Berner, for taking action when it has been found necessary. Each child has only one father, but a good child is satisfied with the grandparents and yet. So, too, it has been observed that many directions have become ideas, ideas for youth cars, light cars. We have been talking about this for years, and perhaps the last, sad driving force in this case too, was the tragic accident in Sastamala, which at the latest opened the eyes of all of us, and the matter was moving forward. This is a very important reform. Young people get safer, correct cars with limited speed alongside mopeds. Those cars allow young people, above all, to travel in rural areas where public transport does not work. Cars will be transported from the countryside to the city centre, the city of the region, hobbies, upper secondary school, vocational school. This is a very important reform, above all from this point of view. So the cars are named light cars. They're going to be driven by an AM or a moped card. Their speed is limited to 45 km/h in the performance, and cars can be up to 10 years old and cars introduced or younger than in this initial phase of 2014. So the car’s own mass max is the 1,500 kilos. In fact, in the case of electric cars, the mass maxims have not been fixed at all in this proposal, which means that the electric car can also be heavier. As a rule, young people between the ages of 15 and 17 will be driving cars, but they will certainly be driven in the future by other people, perhaps older people in part, to make up for the fact that today many people, for example, have mopeds. This is much safer there too. If you compare mopeds and a real car, that is, this youth car, the light car in the show, then you are in the very same price category. But the biggest thing and attention must be paid to the fact that at the same price that a young person is now getting a real car, he immediately gets four airbags, unlocked brakes, often today’s lane guards and many other equipment. In that debut, I have already said that the right car is in fact safer from a pedestrian's point of view, because real cars today are also going to have to carry out very stringent collision tests when they hit the pedestrian. I would like to draw attention to the speed limit of 45 km/h. In my opinion, even in the debat, the fact that even if the car runs 60 or 100, it is only allowed to drive at the maximum speed, and that is where the collisions with pedestrians usually occur. So not by car, even if it has a maximum speed of 60, to drive only 30 or 40 in a city, just as we real car users do. But when the car was running 60, it would go more smoothly in traffic, not being passed by by farmers on tractors or by other young people on the rovers, as is happening in this case. I am pleased that the Minister has given us the opportunity to look at the speed limit in Parliament. So it is smooth traffic, but it would also be much safer to cross a junction or start off at an intersection when the car was running 60. The car is another cause for concern, and I hope that the committee will reflect on it. Would it be enough to define certain safety equipment for the car? For example, they may become more stringent in the future on the basis of new safety equipment for cars. Mr President! Last but not least, I would like to raise the idea of a future in which my dream is that a young car like this, a light-duty car, could have a key in use — I use the name of a single car brand, once they have one, that is, Ford MyKey. In that case, the car would work so that when my child got in the car, he would have his own key. With that key, the speed of the car would be limited to 45 or 60, which is where you end up. But when I or any other adult who has a real driver’s license for a car had another key, the car would run at normal speed, 80 or 100. This would certainly be a proposal that would also be good enough for the Greens who were perhaps the only critics of the proposal, because in this way we could genuinely reduce the number of cars if the family had a car for a second car that could be used by a young person but also by a father on a shopping trip. Then the mother can take the car that goes harder to visit somewhere else, and this would allow the family to get along with two cars in a reasonable way. Mr President! Minister Berner has done a good job again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u53	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u54	We will now resume the debate on item 6 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u55	Mr President! The safety of our young people and other road users in transport is at the forefront of all our priorities when decisions are taken on transport. The government proposal that we are debating would enable the replacement of a moped with a speed-limited passenger car, that is, a light car. According to the proposal, a new alternative to driving a moped that is safer than a moped would be possible from 1 November 2019. The transport of a light-duty car would require the right to drive a category equivalent to that of a moped. This change is very welcome and will improve road safety. A light car means a passenger car whose maximum speed is limited to 45 km/h by means of a control device. I am sure that the maximum speed will still be considered and weighed in committee. The main thing, however, is that the reform of a limited passenger car and its possibility alongside a moped is progressing. The speed limit should be changed to the passenger car that was introduced after 2014. However, a passenger car having more than 10 years since the end of the year of entry into service should not be converted into a light-duty car. The safety characteristics of new passenger cars are considerably more advanced than in the past. Although the Finnish fleet of mopeds has been only about 9,000 cars, the damage caused by mopeds in 2011 to 2015 according to the Accident Information Institute resulted in 1229 injuries and four deaths. Structural deficiencies in mopeds are already significantly increasing the risk of serious personal injury at low speeds. Mr President! For example, collision tests are mandatory for passenger cars, but they are not required for mopeds. In addition, no pedestrian collision test is required for mopeds, unlike passenger cars, which are required to protect pedestrians in the characteristics and design of, inter alia, bumpers and bonnets. There are major differences between the brakes on mopeds and passenger cars. In mopeds, unlocked brakes are not mandatory. On the other hand, ABS brakes have been mandatory for new passenger cars since 2005. The ABS brakes allow the steering of the car during braking, when, at best, the impact can be completely avoided. In addition, the emergency braking system has become more common in smaller passenger cars as standard equipment since 2014. Mr President! A speed restricted car could be returned to a normal passenger car by means of a change survey. In this case, there is no need for a new purchase in the family when a young person receives a driving licence for a normal passenger car when he or she is 18 years old. A speed-limited car is welcome and many families expect an alternative to a moped. The reform will improve the road safety of young people, as the safety equipment and body of passenger cars are on a completely different level compared to mopeds. The safety of our young people and other road users is an important objective and the safety assessment of this proposal must be based on the right information. Yes, weighing facts shows that bringing a light car as an alternative alongside a moped will improve the safety of our young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u56	Mr President! In this Chamber, I have spoken dozens of times in the debates on referrals to the legislative proposals. I dare confess that it has never felt as good to support a bill as it feels now. Reijo Vuorenmaa from Lapua called me in March 2013 and suggested that I move towards a legal amendment that would enable small passenger cars to be converted into so-called mopeds, i.e. light quadricycles. Vuorenmaa justified its proposal with a view to improving road safety for young moped drivers and also pointed out clear economic criteria. When a young person is bought a traditional moped, it costs a new amount of between EUR 10000 and EUR 18000, i.e. the same as small cars. Once such a car has been acquired in the family, its speed can be reduced by an engine-mounted limiter, allowing the vehicle to be tested to fit the category of mopeds. A young person could practice in this car with the characteristics of a normal passenger car until he or she has the right to drive the actual passenger car. After obtaining the right to drive, a moped would have been easy to convert back into a normal car. Such a young person would have a good and light - construction moped vehicle at his disposal at all times. In my written question, I asked Merja Kyllöse, Minister of Transport: ‘Is the government aware of the lack of safety in the transport sector in today’s light construction of mopeds,what measures are being taken to improve the structural safety of motorhomes,and does the Government have a legislative amendment to make it possible for the smallest passenger Minister Mrs Kyllönen did not warm up to the idea, but rejected my proposal in clear terms, hiding behind EU bureaucracy. If anyone does not believe this, the written question will be answered by Minister Kyllönen. It is quite clear how Kyllönen justifies this theme of “no success at the time”. I asked the same question to the current Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, who considered my proposal quite excellent. Minister Berner said that this was the root of the investigation and he did not allow the EU to block the investigation. Despite the opposition, the Minister continued to clarify the matter, and it simply happened that we now have a bill to enable small cars to be converted into light cars. Earlier in the debate, many speakers drew attention to the maximum speed allowed for light cars. Many people hoped that, when dealing with this matter in committee, serious consideration would be given to raising the maximum speed to 60 kilometres per hour. In my own written question, I raised the speed of 45 kilometres per hour, but, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am prepared to give up. In my opinion, the speed of 60 km/h would allow for a more flexible flow of traffic, and particularly the heavy-duty drivers, whom I have also spoken about here, said and hoped that the light-duty cars could have that 60 km/h speed. In winter snows, a combination of heavy cargo vehicles should get at least that 60 km/h so that the combination can reach the top of the hill at all. There are not many hills in Ostrobothnia, we do not recognize it and we do not need it, but when heavy traffic is not just in Ostrobothnia, even in hilly areas, I understand the pain of heavy traffic drivers that when you go uphill, you have to get a little faster.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u59	Mr President! There's a government proposal on so-called light cars. This proposal has indeed been awaited for a long time, and now we finally get it before Parliament. The aim and aim of the proposal is to improve road safety for young people on the road and to increase the choice of mobility for young people on the road. This introduction of light cars does not therefore exclude any other forms of mobility, but provides one way of mobility for young people alongside the former ones. Light-duty vehicles and their characteristics are subject to certain restrictions, such as a maximum age of 10 years or an entry into service after 2014. This is a good line. This will result in these light vehicles being equipped with the latest possible safety technology and, as time goes on, even small vehicles will be standard equipped with collision prevention and other means of detection, and if these are made available to young drivers in these light cars, that is a very good thing. The intention is that light cars are literally light cars, which means that their own mass is limited to 1500 kg. Here, Mr Hongisto was very concerned about the maximum speed of this vehicle, which has been set at 45 kilometres per hour in the draft law, and here in the Chamber we then discussed options, as Hongisto was wondering whether it could be 60 kilometres per hour. This is certainly something that needs to be carefully examined and carefully considered by the committee, listening to the experts, which is wise and sensible. Both speeds have a side, and of course it can be 55 km/h or 50 km/h. It is appropriate to consider this on the basis that what is most appropriate. For example, if the maximum speed is 60 km/h, it means that the vehicle can then move on the motorway, and it causes a clot there when the speeds are higher, and therefore, if the speed were 55 km/h, then the roads and regions would remain and at least there would not be that much of a plug. However, as was heard from Mr Hongisto's speech, this rise in the heavy-duty combination after such a light-duty vehicle at a slow speed is something that needs to be clarified and examined now in the course of the committee's deliberations. The licence requirement for this light-duty vehicle is the same as for a moped, i.e. there will be no specific changes in that respect, nor will there be any special tax treatment for this light-duty vehicle. This means that when the car is used by a young person and the young person then turns 18 and possibly acquires a B-category driving licence, this light car can be converted into an ordinary passenger car. It then requires a survey according to this proposal, but there is no need to pay any extra tax at that stage, but it can be classified as a normal passenger car for normal driving. All in all, I hope that, at the time of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we will consider this in peace, examine the various points of view and, if necessary, refine this proposal even better, but, in general, this is a very welcome and high-quality legislative proposal, and that is what we will be happy to discuss in that committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u60	Mr President! With regard to legislation: even before I was elected to Parliament, when the mopeds arrived, I thought that I, as a father and as a parent, would be ready to put my children there. Now I do not want to be critical of the mopeds that have brought opportunities for young people to move in the sparsely populated area, but I would not put my child in such a soapbox. The accident and safety risks we are discussing here: Even though they are poorly constructed, they have made it quite safe for these young people to move. That we should not make this quite black-and-white when these slow-moving mopeds have made it possible to move and yet, let us say, on the basis of the statistics on the volume of traffic, they have made it possible to achieve relatively good safety, even now compared to mopeds. But in that debate, when I was unable to ask the Minister, I will ask here, and I will, of course, present this in committee, also in this reply from the European Commission on this matter. It has been criticised in some respects by some quarters in the sense that it is not open data, so to speak. It has not all been received at this stage of preparation, but has been interpreted by the government itself. It has been openly introduced into this bill, but no one but the government has been able to interpret it. And I am sure that this is what we in the committee need to clarify, critical and certain doubts about the part of the EU Commission. In committee work, we need to clear up whether it is true or not. And that is certainly what we will do in committee. What I would like to stress in particular is that we know that it is no longer up to young people to be inventive that the speed limit cannot be passed. Today a part of our committee was getting to know what this world is like, and that is a 50 minute thing when such a override device can then be installed in such a speed-limited car. I would like us in the committee to focus in particular on the fact that this speed limit also involves the data that is constantly measuring the speed of the vehicle, and it cannot be ignored that we in the committee could create a system which, like the tachograph, requires the authority in the field of professional transport to look at the speeds at which this vehicle has been driven, as in the case of the tachograph, or at the time of the survey. And that means that such a so-called light car must be registered to that person and it must only be in the individual use of that person. Otherwise, all that kind of circumvention, for example, with another key and so on, would be possible. It is, at least personally important to me that the authority should always be able to determine the speed driven by the car and make those decisions on the basis of whether it has passed, but that the data is always visible at its vehicle speeds. We do not need location data, we do not need time times, we just need the car that is used by this young person, the monitoring of its speed, and that is essential here. And, of course, there must be adequate sanctions for this — the consequences of being overtaken by this limiter. The issue of emissions was discussed in the debate, and one thing — now I was out of it for a while — was actually remarkable what SKAL has said about this movement of business goods and the increase in emissions associated with it. Here Mr Hongisto commented on the fact that we are going uphill to bypass a vehicle that is 50 miles an hour. This is all the more true. We need to be very careful in the committee about whether it is 60 km/h, and where on this kind of vehicle, which should drive 60 km/h, should be allowed to drive. I would say that, of course, not on the motorway, but it would not be possible to drive a slower vehicle on the motorway either. Do we have the possibility, then, of restricting some 100 km of highways in such a way as not to drive mopeds? Well, in rural areas it means, in terms of the benefit that young people are going to school, joining hobbies is that it then restricts this very appropriate form of mobility in sparsely populated areas. All in all, safety is important, and that is what we must stick to, and I believe that the committee is very active at this point and wants to go through all the data that already exists on these accidents, the percentages. Mr President! 45 kilometers an hour or 60 kilometers an hour? When I have considered this matter, I have flagged my so-called small representative age that these light cars must come in for the safety of the driver, but also for the safety of accidents. It's 60 kilometers an hour even in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u61	Mr President! I believe that improving road safety is extremely important. The accident safety of motor vehicles is weak and their replacement with a more sensible solution improves road safety without weakening the conditions for young people to move, especially in smaller towns. A light-duty car is therefore exactly the right measure to promote safety objectives. Light cars have been modified from cars by limiting their speed to 45 kilometers per hour. They are clearly safer than mopeds for a stronger frame and originally designed for higher speeds and other safety solutions. Serious accidents in mopeds have increased as they increase in the 2010s and are over-represented in accident statistics due to their weaker structure. The mobility of young people between the ages of 15 and 17 is often challenging in our sparsely populated country, so making this easier without compromise in terms of safety is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u62	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! There is now a referral debate on a subject which has been talking for years mainly in rural and medium-sized cities, where the number of mopeds is quite different from, for example, here in the capital region. I was wondering if I've ever seen any mopeds around the place of work and publishing. I do not think so, but in rural towns we see and hear a lot of them. Why has this bill come to this point that we have it here today in the referral debate? I think that it is for a reason that today's mopeds are perceived as unsafe in traffic and have been accompanied by unfortunate road accidents. The law on motor vehicles limited to light cars is very much justified because road safety is improving, but there is, of course, the other side. The restricted light vehicle is completely different in mass from the moped, and therefore the impact energy is multiple in the event of a possible collision. When there has also been a debate here today in the Chamber in the debat, that 45 kilometres would turn to 60 kilometres per hour, of course, each of us understands that the energy of the collision will then be many times higher in this situation, too, if we go to the kilometer increase. As expected, the consultation has raised concerns about the low level of training requirements compared to the passenger car and the fact that the speed limit must not be too easy to dismantle. As a rule, I want to trust families and young people, but if the restriction is too easy to circumvent, it will also certainly be circumvented, and each of us is aware that supervision will be challenging at least in situations like this. Advance feedback has also come mainly from professional drivers in relation to the smooth flow of traffic if the number of passenger cars with speed limits will increase significantly in the future. Another aspect of concern to me is emissions from transport, when this bill inevitably increases the number of private cars and thus contradicts the objectives of climate and energy policy, which I believe are also signed by all parties. With regard to the assessment that some young people will be diverted from the use of public transport by means of the reform, I would like to remind you that there is certainly no chance of a smooth, if at all, way to go to studies and hobbies in rural towns and rural areas today. I believe that there will also be criticism of the cost of reform during the debate: whether the family can afford to buy and give young people a car up to 10 years old, but in the initial phase at least a car introduced in 2014 or later. In this debate, I think it should be borne in mind that a used moped is already costing between EUR 8000 and EUR 9000 and a new one of over EUR 15,000, which is not cheap and is not possible in all families. [The President knocks ] President! Finally, if you will allow me, as far as EU conflicts are concerned, they must be resolved before we move the proposal forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u63	Mr President! I think that this bill is very good and worthy of support. Indeed, these mopeds in traffic are themselves dangerous, in the event of an accident they are absolutely life-threatening to the people inside the car. I understand, of course, that a tragic event involving the young people who were killed in a moped was due to a deliberate collision, which would probably have caused quite a lot to happen in the rest of the car, because the impact was so huge that it might not be worth taking instructions from now on. What is important here is to note that this is going in a healthy, right direction. An ordinary car with this on the limiter — it is a digital device that can really limit speed, and it will not be exceeded, as I have heard from these members of the Transport Committee, they have been testing such a car — indeed, it is such a car that it runs only at its maximum speed, just as the truck has a speed limiter, which also works at lower speeds. Is that 50 miles an hour the right speed? That is what the committee will have to think about in its paragraph. But I still remember Mr Pakkanen’s speech — when we discussed this point for the first time today — as he said in his speech, these fast agricultural tractors, the transport tractors, which actually get almost 60. It is worth considering that it must be humiliating for many young people when Valtra pushes past the truck and forty - five get to drive a moped. What's the correct speed? I hope that the committee will have a good debate and consult experts. I heard Mrs Myllykoski speak, I was in the study following this debate, and Mrs Myllykoski raised the question of how to monitor speeds, whether to exceed them. I believe that a procedure in which people's travels and movements are monitored so that they go to the controller every now and then to read the data, whether this young gentleman or lady has been speeding in that slow-tracked car, is something I find quite unconstitutional. It is strange that society should follow the actions of young people in this way. I understand that in truck traffic. This tachograph system is based on compliance with working hours, on proper rest periods and so on. That's where you get it. But if we go to the public to see how driving is done, whether speeds are being followed, I certainly do not accept that. Yes, I understand the background of its representative Myllykoski, feeling that trust is good, control is best. But in my opinion, a society that monitors people's movements in this way — I would say that if it went to the Constitutional Committee, then at least a tighter debate would result in it being even legal. I consider the draft law itself to be very good and worthy of support. Here too is the benefit of the young man’s passing his moped age, so by taking those digital bulldozers out of there he can continue with a normal, safe passenger car in traffic and get in full traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u64	Mr President! Representative Hoskonen: I do not know how you interpret my backgrounds or anything else, but this is, in a way, a question of monitoring the speed that we are currently experiencing digitally by means of photographic cameras.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u67	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 8. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u68	Madam President! We have an alcohol tax issue on the table here. The next item on the agenda is the tax on soft drinks. I hope that the President will allow me to deal with these issues together a little, because they are essentially linked. At the same time, of course, it can be recalled that we recently had a similar tax on tobacco. All three issues are very central to public health: alcohol, tobacco and then sugar, especially for the obesity of young people. They're all very important. Influencing them can affect public health, combat social problems, reduce the need for social services and, in many ways, have an economic beneficial impact. According to the studies, the price is a very central means and it has been shown in many studies, both in terms of alcohol and tobacco. And so it is taxation that regulates the price. Several experts have pointed out that the price has a particular impact on the choice of children and lower social groups. It is said that price policy would help in the public health of children and young people, and also to offset health inequalities. At the same time, of course, these harmful taxes have an important impact on government tax revenues and help shift the tax focus from labour taxation to harmful consumption taxation. In this respect, it has been said that these are the right win-win situations: both public health and the state treasury benefit. The criticism of these harmful taxes has, of course, been expressed that they are the most heavily targeted at the very low-income ones. Sure — only if they consume these products. In any case, however, these tax increases must remain on a reasonable path. At the same time, it is, of course, worth pointing out from the point of view of the health promoter how users of these products have an excellent opportunity to save. If you smoke a pack a day, it takes EUR 2500 a year, and a great many Finns have given up smoking for both health and money. Also, by reducing alcohol consumption, young people can save by reducing sodas. In other words, changing their way of life in these respects will improve both their health and their economy. A moderate increase in alcohol tax is in order. Valvira data so far, and of course very premature, until the end of July, show that the fall in alcohol consumption in recent years would have stopped and that the current impact of the law would be surprisingly accurate compared to the background trend, i.e. around 4%. But as we have emphasised, it is far too short a time to draw conclusions. As far as alcohol tax is concerned, this bill also deals with directing the tax. However, this increase is as small as a percentage, and when it is to be applied to all products, there is little point in bothering its head with small differences in this emphasis. When it comes to the tax on alcoholic beverages and soft drinks, it should be borne in mind that they differ from the tobacco tax in the sense that the objective of the tobacco tax is non-smoking Finland. In other words, with the reduction in smoking, tax increases will no longer bring more money into the state treasury — that is, above all, a health policy instrument. But this is precisely a question of limiting harmful consumption. With regard to the soft drinks tax, it is positive that increases are concentrated on more sugary drinks. At the same time, it can be said that tax increases could, of course, be greater in the future. Some examples, such as Mexico, show that substantial increases in the soft drinks tax have made a significant contribution to reducing the weight gain of young people. The big FinHealth research by THL has recently shown that the weight gain of Finns has unfortunately continued. This is a major public health problem, and when it affects children and young people in particular, it is particularly worrying. More effective measures are needed. Of course, soft drinks are only a small part of this problem, but it is precisely in the case of overweight young people who are strongly involved in the picture. We would need more effective action in terms of both food and physical activity as a whole, and we look forward to a report on sports policy here. With regard to nutrition and young people, Minister Lepä's recent openings in promoting school meals and restricting the sale of energy drinks are welcome. With regard to the soft drinks tax, it should also be noted that ending the candy tax at the time was a mistake. Contrary to the image given in public, it was by no means based on the EU's decision, and its restoration should be planned. Health promotion and health education, as in all education, require both stick and carrot. Of course, carrots are nice, and they are hoped for as much as possible, but unfortunately often they require state and municipal funds. These harmful taxes, which we are talking about here, mean a stick for many, but that too is needed, especially when it is effective and cheap for the state. Mr President! All in all, these tax proposals on the table, this and the next one on the agenda, are appropriately sized in the right direction and are also comparable in many ways to current environmental damage taxes. In this regard, the Minister of Finance Orpo should be commended for promoting Finnish public health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u69	Madam President! I would have liked to ask the Minister responsible for this question, but even informed colleagues could answer this: how do we open up the concept of ‘non-statistical consumption of alcoholic beverages’ to the ordinary citizen? Statistical consumption of alcoholic beverages refers to the quantity of alcoholic beverages sold and taxed in Finland, so it would be interesting to know how or how to measure non-statistical consumption of alcoholic beverages. As such, this government proposal to increase the alcohol tax is justified because increasing individual consumption of alcoholic beverages also increases the cost of remedying the resulting harm.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u70	Madam President! First of all, as far as alcohol law is concerned, it must be said in general that the solution proposed by the government and strongly supported by the blues was the right one to liberalise alcohol law. The adverse health effects or the high increase in alcohol consumption, as claimed, have not yet occurred. Let's keep an eye on the situation, but right now it looks fine. As far as this presentation on the table is concerned, the alcohol tax has already been raised once during this reign, and so now there is a new increase. Of course, it is significant that a higher tax increase than other categories of wine reduces the current tax differential between wine and other soft drinks. The excise duty on beer is increased by 2.7% and the wine is indeed raised by 3.7%. This is what some people in the public debate have pointed out: why did I do so? For my part, there is also a certain amount of support for the Finnish brewing industry, especially the small brewing industry, which naturally focuses on beer. Wine is more then, I must say foreign product. In this increase in the alcohol tax, the idea and forecast is that on an annual basis some EUR 30 million will be added to the state treasury. It is, of course, positive in itself, but I believe that during the next term of government there would be little room for manoeuvre in raising the alcohol tax, because Finland's alcohol taxation, for example, on beer, is quite hard at EU level and can therefore become a question of industrial policy if there were to be a very large increase in this. As such, these increases are relatively small in percentage terms, i.e. if you think of the consumer, it seems that retail prices for alcoholic beverages would rise by around 1%, so it is not a very big question for the consumer here, but of course, in terms of state finances and public health, these will always have an impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u71	We're on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u72	Madam President! This government proposal is very welcome if we are thinking of promoting health and well-being. We are on an absolutely fundamental path towards good. Overuse of alcohol is one of the key health threats of Finnish society. It affects, as we know, public health, social and family relations, the well-being of children, the economy and the activities of the authorities. The additional cost of alcohol-related harm to public finances is several billion euros a year. Then, in view of the loss of production at work and other disadvantages, the costs are multiple. And yes, these previous amendments to the alcohol law have clearly been reflected in the activities of the police, for example, and this has resulted in additional costs. And in view of the negative effects of alcohol on the well-being of families, especially children, it cannot even be measured with money. We know from history that the most effective way to control alcohol abuse is to influence the availability and price of alcohol. Now this government proposal brings tax increases, which have been calculated at an average of about 2.5 per cent. In other words, these increases would increase the retail prices of alcoholic beverages by an average of about one percent, with a tax increase of about EUR 30 million per year. We believe that while the government's proposal is in the right direction, the increases should, however, be more significant in view of the significant social disadvantages and costs of alcohol consumption. I have therefore tabled an initiative for a more fair increase in excise duty on alcoholic beverages. If we think that the annual income from alcohol taxation would be EUR 70 million higher than the EUR 30 million increase estimated in the government budget for 19 years, then the revenue for 19 would be EUR 100 million higher than the revenue for 18 years, and if we think about what the government has cut off, one small example is the coeliac allowance. We have families who need a special diet as a treatment — a gluten-free diet is the only treatment — and we know that it brings costs to families, and year after year we have asked for an additional EUR 10 million. This would be very important in these families, especially in many families with low incomes, in families with small pensioners who are constantly being forced to use more expensive food as a cure, and I do think, for example, that a slightly fairer increase in taxation on alcohol products, an increase in the collection of 70 million, and it would be justifiable to use it a little more rationally.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u73	Madam President! This is where the government itself justifies the increase in the alcohol tax on purely fiscal grounds, i.e. by raising more money in the state treasury. In other words, EUR 30 million, President, this will result in more tax revenue. It should be noted that the government does not justify a tax increase for health reasons, which of course must also be noted in this debate, but specifically for fiscal reasons. I personally believe that, of course, we must recognise the harm caused by alcohol to society as a whole and the big bill that it causes. But let me just say that, in fact, the government's own actions in the past, when the alcohol legislation as a whole was being reformed, were going to raise the costs of health care to a considerable extent, and of course they are not being corrected by the fact that, for fiscal reasons, the tax on alcohol is constantly being increased. This is a harmful tax, this is a health-based tax. In this respect, it is justifiable to increase this tax too, but it must also be noted that recent developments have gone to the fact that annual tax increases have taken place, and even now in Finland alcohol taxes are at a very high level. That is why the equation does not work so simply in this case that we are raising the alcohol tax again and, as it were, the health effects will then be better, because, indeed, according to the government's own arguments, it is precisely a fiscal tax that we are not going to oppose in this context. The President-in-Office, which I would like to see for us in the Chamber, would be to look at this structure a little further. It is certainly justified that there should be a higher increase in spirits than in mild ones, but, for some reason, in the presentation the wines are slightly higher than the others, and it is not the strongest. I would certainly believe that, in line with our job description, we will also look at these substantive issues in the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u74	Madam President! As car consumption decreases and fuel is less expensive, then the tax on fuels must be raised to keep tax revenues unchanged. Now it's the same with alcohol. When alcohol consumption falls, which is a really good thing, then taxes will be raised so that taxes will remain the same again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u79	Mr President! This is, of course, a fiscal tax increase. For example, in the case of beer, we currently have a high level of alcohol taxation, in wines we are second in the highest position and are now fixing it higher, because there is a 3.7% increase, and elsewhere it is then, for example, in beer, two and a half per cent. The calculation of alcohol consumption, at least now according to the latest measurements, has stopped and one might say that imports have decreased. But there is, of course, such a challenge here, because Estonia has stopped the process of raising alcohol taxes, that it will then reverse the process of importing alcohol from trips to the Baltic States. This means only about 1% of the final product price for beer, of course a little more for wines and then a lot more for tougher wines. But as I said, this has no effect other than a fiscal effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u80	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the fact that our alcohol taxes must be monitored very closely by the Baltic countries and by other neighbouring countries. I refer to the same news as before that Finnish tourists have disappeared from restaurants in Tallinn, and it is probably the result of changes in alcohol taxation, a change in alcohol policy both in Estonia and in Finland. And this previous reform of alcohol policy, modernisation was precisely a move in the right direction to reduce the import-free liquor from trips abroad, which may be the unstated liquor. That is nowhere to be seen except in retrospect as a different consequence, as has been mentioned here, because the reduction in drinking has now come to a halt, which is probably the result of a reduction in imports from Estonia. In other words, it is absolutely necessary to follow the whole which is made up of Finland and its immediate neighbours in alcohol policy, with their taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u81	Madam President! I agree with Mr Jalonen that we must, however, constantly follow the neighbouring countries, especially the Baltic countries. I am not surprised that Estonia has put these uplifting processes a bit on hold and sees what Finland is doing. This small increase will take a while, and it's good that it hasn't been pushed into the back of a beer with all the strength, because that's when the rally would start again. In some ways, I think that when the prohibition was brought to an end, the real reason was the state's treasury deficit, and now we are trying to achieve the same fiscal result. There's one thing I'd like to pay attention to. Some of us in this Chamber have great faith that we can regulate people’s behavior and, in particular, alcohol consumption. People can reasonably choose their own way of life. When we look at the magazines even a little, you can see that nonalcoholic beer and others are making their way, which is a clear indication that people make their own choices regardless of the decisions made in this hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u82	Mr President! Surely the Finnish brewery industry was thrilled to hear Elon express his support for them. The Lord protects against such support measures that when the beer tax is increased by 2%, the representative of Elo says that this is hand-lifting and support for the Finnish brewing industry, [Ari Jalose’s interlude] It is also worth noting that the fiscal significance of this measure is totally negligible. That's half a mil of the total budget. That, too, is not a durable way to approach these big and important questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u83	Madam President! I do not recall directly what Mrs Harakka voted for, but, if I remember correctly, a large number of Social Democrats voted against the liberalisation of the alcohol law. [TimoHarakkacalls for an answer ] As far as this legislation is concerned, I say quite openly that my view is that it is better to increase the taxation of beer and a little more wine, because, in Finland, this particular brewery industry is the one that produces beer here, and thus this is a better solution for us in terms of industrial policy. Otherwise, as Mr Viitanen rightly said, this law is a fiscal question. As far as alcohol is concerned, it must be said that, contrary to what you might think about some of the speeches, total alcohol consumption has been falling for years. You can see this from THL's own statistics. What I find worrying and which should be changed is that Finns drink only 11% of the alcohol they use in restaurants. This proportion should be raised. The new law, which has now come with regard to the liberalisation of alcohol, did not really change this situation at all, which is perhaps a little surprising, but what could of course change is that VAT on alcohol could be calculated during the next term of government. I believe that this would have a significant impact on this issue, and I hope that this is what the parties will now consider as we move towards the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u84	I give a one-minute response to Mr Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u85	Yes, Mr President, we heard statistics in the section, where recorded alcohol consumption has risen in Finland over the course of this year, based on preliminary data, and, in particular, when we look at distribution channels, the share of grocery stores has increased considerably. This was the government hand-out to K-retailers, Lidl and the S-Group, which certainly did not bring any Finns into the controlled restaurant industry. You would have had the full opportunity, Mr Government, to do otherwise, for example, to reduce the VAT on alcoholic beverages and not to charge it to the next government, to which I am sure it is not polite to make any other wishes. So there are data, preliminary data, that it has also contributed to increasing consumption and precisely to where there is no controlled alcohol consumption, i.e. the grocery trade, the bag beer side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u86	Mr President! As I said earlier, the most effective way of curbing alcohol abuse is to influence the availability and price of alcohol, but just the same, if we want to promote the use, availability and price of a product, it will also affect it. Just as Mr Eestilä pointed out in his speech, the use of non-alcoholic beer has increased significantly over the past year. I hope that the use of similar non-alcoholic products will continue to increase. I'm sorry about you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the past, I made a proposal — which the government could have taken and could have taken if it wanted to promote the use and availability of non-alcoholic beverages — that at least one non-alcoholic option should have been made available in restaurants or in places where alcoholic products are available, whether it is alcoholic beer or wine or other. Of course, there was a lot of discussion about whether smarter young people are part of the cause or a rationalized middle age, but the use of non-alcoholic beer has increased and there has also been a significant increase in supply. That last summer I did this sort of diner tour, sometimes on purpose I stopped by, and I asked if you had any alcohol-free options. Some small diner in Pirkanmaa said yes, and there were first three or four non-alcoholic options available, and it was said that a clear change has taken place, for example, that people on a motorcycle or on a car during the summer would ask for them, and they would go with this merchant as much as they could. But then, on the other hand, there are still a huge number of places to drink, finer restaurants or smaller diners, not to mention the ice halls, where there is also a lot of alcohol-free beer that is not available at all, for example beer, even though I have been enlightened — I have never been a beer friend myself, just because of the taste, but some older gentleman like this enlightened me at some point — that now there are alcohol-free beers so tasty that where do you know there is no alcohol at all, except that there is no drunkenness. So, in a certain way, of course, if we'd taken it a little harder... I am thinking, for example, of a number of diners, of drinking places, such as these ice halls, for it is so sad that there are different alternatives to alcoholic beverages, but still not necessarily the only non-alcoholic one. Well, as they say, demand increases supply, i.e.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u87	And now there are three requests to speak on the list. Let us take them to this debate and then leave the rest, if you will make the floor, at the end of the debate on these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u88	Mr President! Four brief comments. Firstly, for Mr Mattila: This non-statistical consumption is what THL and several authorities together will follow through on monthly surveys. It doesn't exactly give you an accurate picture, but the trends are pretty reliable. Representative Elon from these statistics: We have indeed had a quite consistent decrease in alcohol consumption of about 3% in recent years, a decrease of 4% last year, and now Valvira's latest statistics are talking about an increase of about 1%. So this decrease and one percent mean an effect that is amazingly accurate what we predicted. To Mr Eestilä: you said that taxation and price cannot affect alcohol consumption, but this is contrary to all the laws of the economy. Yes, the price has an impact on consumption. Of course, price elasticities vary. Then, to Mrs Elo: We agree quite a lot that drinking in a restaurant is what we call controlled consumption. But progress has gone in a crazier direction, as we also predicted. We said that when you get strong alcohol from outside the restaurant more easily, of course it will shift consumption there. And this, which is now being driven by the restaurant industry to reduce the tax on alcohol in the restaurant, can, of course, partly be transferred there, but it would certainly increase overall consumption, and that is not very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u90	Madam President! Of course, it's good to think about where it all came from. In fact, when this matter, the liberalisation of the alcohol law, was dealt with for the government programme, many would have thought that sales would have been freed up to 8.5% in shops, but then, through various negotiations, 5.5% of the compromise was reached, and that was also achieved, as a result of the struggle, by 98 to 94 votes in this Chamber. So this amendment to the alcohol law in Finland is not easy — perhaps it should not be. But this was the compromise that was reached. As such, I do not think that 5.5 is still strong alcohol, that other products are already involved. As far as Mr Haraka's speech is concerned, I warmly support the line taken by the blue people during this term of government, namely the release of alcohol legislation in this regard, that stronger beer has entered the shops. I already had in my election programme the fact that I am also in favour of wine for shops, and I am also in favour of it next season. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u93	Madam President! After all, a long discussion took place here in connection with the reform of alcohol law. According to the government's own proposals, it was thought that this would involve additional public health costs as well as social costs, for example, with a significant increase in the need for police officers. These calculations and assessments can be found in the government's own proposals, and I therefore think it was somewhat contradictory at the time that the government, at the same time, with its own presentations, would add to these types of problems in society and costs and others. Personally, I did not see the wisdom of liberalising this alcohol legislation in that direction, because, however, price and availability have a role to play, just as the government itself believes they do. President! Indeed, as has been said, much greater importance has been attached to public health as well as to what has happened in this reform of alcohol law than to how we decide to deal with this alcohol tax. And in this case, I would like to point out again that this change is fiscal: it collects more revenue in the state's treasury as a whole. This is not justified by health effects, unfortunately, but by other reasons.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u94	Now I will give the floor to Mr Eestilä and Mr Tanus, and then we will move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u95	Mr President! I think that each of us will realise that if the price of alcohol falls significantly, it will increase consumption. But they are just such temporary phenomena and thorns, and my own idea is that alcohol consumption is a strongly culturally related phenomenon. I've run a dust test in a lot of countries: I've gone to the market and looked at people and always went where they sell raw liquor and everything else, and there's a lot of people going around there, and when I scratched the other bottle with my finger, there's dust in my finger. How can it be in other parts of the world that access is so free that even if you get a boost, and yet alcohol consumption remains as moderate as it may be? It's a culture-bound phenomenon. And that is why I personally agree with Mr Elo here that my response to the election machine does not change on the basis of these things, that I think that I should take the next step, of course, in the next parliamentary term, that wines for grocery stores, and thereby give people freedom of choice as to what they want to drink and so on. I believe that today's generation and young people, who are smart about alcohol policy and travel around the world, will not be swayed by some two percent tax reduction or tax increase in their own alcohol consumption. They choose their own lines. I have seen so many young people getting sober and, in a way, promoting healthy lifestyles and choosing non-alcoholic alternatives, and so on, and I think it is a great culture. And yes, it must be said that in older age groups, too, tobacco consumption decreases, alcohol consumption decreases, workplaces are no longer allowed to smell like booze. We have started to come up with completely different-looking tolerances that correct the old culture, which was then in a rather depraved state of Russian trade, that clearly we are going in the right direction. I still believe that the solutions in this Chamber do not have as much effect on these issues as we think we do here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u96	Madam President! Just as Mr Eestilä said, of course, I think that the majority of young people have become wiser and that alcohol consumption in many age groups has decreased. Of course, it is only then that we also have young people who may come from more broken backgrounds or who face challenges in life as a whole, of course, then these forces are easily seized, if they are available, both in alcohol and in others. However, I would have liked to refer here to what Mr Viitanen pointed out, that, for example, the number of police officers actually increased somewhat, contrary to what Mr Elo said earlier in his speech. As I recall, more than ten thousand alarms have come to the police. And when we know that the resources and dimensions of the police are too small anyway, this is an addition. To make alcohol-free alternatives more widely available: yes, I would like to see alcohol-free alternatives available where alcohol-free alternatives should be available when the government thinks about it and, in the future, whoever sits on the board, it is thought that these alcohol-free alternatives should also be available where alcoholics are sold. In this situation, I have to raise my hat to Alko: I have not been around much in other cities, but I have stopped at Tampere with this alcohol discussion, and I have to say that there are very good selections and right at the end of the door there are long rows of shelves with alcohol-free options. And I also believe that, when there are a variety of good, high-quality non-alcoholic alternatives available, it also contributes to their consumption. The fact is, perhaps it is good to end by reminding you that alcohol, if it were brought to the market today, would never be authorised today. It has clearly been proven in many studies to be such a powerful cell poison, causing many kinds of damage to cells in many parts of the body, both in the brain and in the heart, that it would not be authorised in any way today. And in the sense that we talk about alcohol, however, one must remember this fact and also remember those living under the most challenging conditions. For example, I would like to bring up pregnant women, that is, those little people in the womb, what they are going to suffer and spend the rest of their lives carrying, and one example is that it is an extremely high price and strikes very flagrantly into our eyes what alcohol can accomplish. In that sense, I would like to see greater availability of non-alcoholic beverages,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u97	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 9. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u98	Mr President! There has been as much consensus in this House on a few points as there is on the need for a public health-based tax. As I recall about two years ago, there were many speeches about this when the tax on sweets and soft drinks had to be abolished from the state budget for reasons of competition law in the European Union, and in that way there was a tax gap of EUR 100 million. And there are so few things that Parliament's will has been heard so little, so that the public health-based tax has not been prepared by this government. There are many technical problems, of which everyone who is dedicated to tax matters is aware, but on the other hand it must be noted that public health-based taxes exist in some European countries, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has also been very keen to do so. However, we now have a soft drink tax, which is based on rather random tariff headings, and it inevitably creates very strange situations and very difficult legal security issues for the Finnish food industry, for food workers. But in terms of public health, it is difficult to justify why bottled water such as the recommended tap water is now suddenly subject to such a tax. Same product, in a different package only. But the most flagrant flaw is the pattern of the Finnish berry farmer, the fruit farmer and the processing of berries and the making of juice, namely this tax would also apply to berry purées, the same creams that are therefore recommended for babies to be fed. If this really is a harmful tax, does this really mean that Finns have deliberately wanted to harm babies by feeding berry purées? It is quite clear that there is a big difference between berry sauce and lemonade, so we must be able to do better. For example, we need to be able to distinguish between natural sugar, which comes from fruit and berries, and how to treat added sugar differently and additives which are equally added, and which certainly have questionable health effects. In other words, I would ask the committee to consider how this accuracy and fairness can still be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u99	Madam President! Far away are those times — I think quite a few of us have a similar history here in the hall — when soft drinks were mainly part of the Midsummer and such celebrations. As a secondary school teacher, I am concerned about the real increase in young people's soft drinks and, in particular, energy drinks. It would have been interesting to hear from those who have been above the law in preparing the discussions on energy drinks when I have not actually been a fresh representative in the process of preparing this matter. Indeed, it has already flashed that there has been some discussion about them, and I can really tell you that they are really a problem there in the school world.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u100	Madam President! All in all, this is once again a fiscal effort to reach 25 million in the state treasury. I would also like, for my part, to remind you of what Mr Harakka was talking about, namely that some time ago we had the abolition of a sweet tax. I remember the debate very well when it was about to leave: Minister Orpo said that the Ministry of Finance would start preparing some sort of compensatory health-based tax. And that's what we were waiting for. The SDP has put these in its own options a long time ago, because we saw and knew the situation in the EU. But then about a year ago, or was it last autumn, we received information from Petteri Orvo's ministry that no such sweet tax or health-based tax is actually being prepared. In other words, in a way, the message that came when the sweet tax disappeared has already changed, and I think it would be quite right not to throw down the corner now and not to think that we could do nothing about it, because many reasons are in favour of collecting that tax in the future on such items. There will certainly be a way, even if it is not easy, Mr President. I know, of course, that over the years there have been many different options that have been examined and considered, but there is certainly some sort of structure available for this. My second concern is just as much — Mr Harakka has already spoken about it — the situation in the domestic sector, including the juice industry, and this is precisely what we are doing in the field of berry and berry processing. We have received some rather disturbing messages there. Indeed, with this motion, do we want to mistreat berry purées, for example? Or, as it turned out here, even such small children, babies’ berry purées are then comparable to soft drinks, it is quite far - reaching. It is our domestic industry, the juice industry's side in these matters that we should be keeping, and I therefore very much agree with the health that Mrs Harakka said earlier that we should now pay attention to the fairness of this proposal and, above all, its accuracy. I am quite sure that we will also have further discussions on this in the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u101	Madam President! Mr Mattila has justifiably raised the question of sugary drinks, soft drinks and also energy drinks. All you can say is that in addition to the educational work, these vending machines are out of the schools. If the school does not particularly want to promote the use of sugar drinks among its students, it is at least what one can do. I remember when I was in high school, there were those vending machines. It may be that there are still many schools, so that it is at least what the school itself can do. As far as this proposal is concerned, Mr Harakka's critical remarks are legitimate in themselves, and when this proposal has been made within the government, it has certainly been noted that this targeting is quite difficult and there are different kinds of juices, for example, which may, in a certain way, be unfairly targeted. However, it was assumed that the steering effect of the tax will be strengthened in this way, when it is clearly higher in sugar-containing beverages. It must be said that from the consumer's point of view, the impact is not too great: on average, retail prices of sugar-containing soft drinks would rise by 3% and other soft drinks by around 1%, that is to say, small price changes again. And as Mr Viitanen said, there is, in itself, a fiscal reason for this proposal, but I too welcome the fact that the section will then look at this allocation as closely as possible, but it must be said that when the government's proposal was presented, it was noticed that it was from this very health point of view that it would really be targeted so that this aspect would be taken into account as strongly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u102	Madam President! Unlike alcohol and tobacco, it is much more difficult to tackle food issues, for example, for the reasons referred to by Mrs Harakka. The background is that food is quite complex: on the surface there is sugar, on the one hand salt, on the other hand fat quality and vegetables, fruits, fiber, on the other hand, food is not black and white, but it is also a matter of quantity. This involves the fact that sugar itself, for example, is very difficult to tax because it is found in almost all products. Maybe small amounts of added and natural sugar. It is indeed very difficult to obtain a balanced, more comprehensive tax solution. A more balanced solution is, for example, labelling. I think it was this Heartmark that covers all of these in a certain way as a whole. However, in spite of all this, I think that there are good grounds for a soft drink tax in itself, even though it is directed around these problems. The other side of the medal is that, in any case, it must be remembered that the weight gain of children and young people is a major problem. There are a number of ways to do this, and it is beyond dispute that soft drinks are present in the picture for young people and children who have this problem of weight gain. The second is candy, and it is unfortunate that the candy tax has been abolished. We were given the wrong impression that the EU banned this. The Ministry of Finance has clearly said, in the course of the committee's deliberations, that this was not an EU ban. It was simply understood that the Commission does not like this. Surely a certain part of the Commission did not like it. Health Commissioner Andriukaitis specifically said that he was in favour of the candy tax and that it was important. I was also pleased to see that this dealt with vending machines and candy machines in schools. It has been influenced in many ways, and the delightful development has been that the sale of soda and candy in our schools has decreased. But still, as I recall, according to the last survey, about one third of secondary schools in Finland still have regular sweet sales. The National Board of Education and the THL have tried to influence this, and hopefully there will be further improvement. All in all, I hope that the committee will consider these issues in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u103	Mr President! Here, too, there is a fiscal basis of EUR 25 million, and it is, of course, a bad thing that the domestic small juice industry suffers from this, as it were. The final decision has not yet been reached that if not for that product, juice, add sugar in that juice or other sugar in that berry, then is it more unhealthy than it is if it is removed and replaced with sweeteners. Especially in recent times there have been research results, such as a change in the strain of bacteria in man and then other diseases, and it may still be worse for it to gain weight. I myself called a few manufacturers who make social wares, and when there has been the impression that this soft drink tax also applies to social products, they confirmed it, although it was not the original purpose of the law to show it to them too, because it is so-called healthful that it was not originally intended to be subject to such a harmful tax. This has obviously been a matter of indivisibility of the customs code. When customs does not find the appropriate title, then the same tax has been imposed on social services. I'd like to see if we should call this off.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u104	Mr President! Here, the opposition made two pleasurable contributions to this children's berry mixture, which apparently came up in today's expert consultation as a new issue for everyone. This will certainly be settled in the section, and if there is a problem then of course it will be corrected. But this is not a novelty in this government proposal, but that problem has already existed before.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u105	Mr President! Just a brief comment on these past ones. What really bothers us here is the contradiction that there are genuinely only fiscal reasons for this tax, but it is still justified by health reasons, that is, why some products fall within the scope of why others do not. It is quite amazing to hear from health authorities that it would be justified in some way to treat berry purées in the same way as cola drinks because fruit and berries whole are undoubtedly healthier than mashed, but, ladies and gentlemen, we must see the difference and make the difference. It is unacceptable for the Committee on Finance to come out of such a Bona tax that violates everyone's sense of justice and common sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u106	Madam President! The thing is that, if these soft drinks taxes are raised, I myself salute such increases with great joy, because the thing is that if we do not start paying attention to it ourselves in this country, then it is certainly not possible for the tax authorities to do so. We are the only ones who are able to decide whether to buy that sugary lemonade or perhaps to drink some domestic berry juice with some sugar in it, but we can also make a difference when we work a little bit, whether there is a lot of sugar in it or not, i.e. whether there is a tax on it. For each product we pay at least some VAT — even when we buy a bag of sugar, it also has VAT. But I very much hope that in this seemingly trivial bill of law, the big heart is understood to be so that we are gradually moving on to our own domestic berries, currants and so on. I myself use currant drinks, imported from the province, certainly pure currant drinks. Every morning, I drink a lot of that juice and I'm reasonably healthy. The most important thing would be to note that the tax will not be able to improve the world, but it would be a good thing if that common sense started to spread most often.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u107	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 10. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u108	Mr President! In practice, there is a reduction in vehicle tax and this timing could not be more appropriate than it is now: the day after the worrying figures of the International Climate Panel on Climate Change were published and each parliamentary party, with the exception of a couple, proposed or swore that Finland will here tighten its own goals for the planet. Among other things, Minister Orpo has highlighted these environmental consumption taxes and, for example, on car tax, he said that in time the car tax should be abolished and focused on this stronger environmental steering for the emission-based vehicle tax. That's a very good idea, but what happens now? The next day we will see a reduction in vehicle tax. This means that the climate awareness of Orpo and Sipilä lasted exactly one day. It's exactly one day! Well, it would be justified in itself to support zero-emission and low-emission cars, and I hope that the committee, in its deliberations, will amend this proposal in such a way that it will be more specific to environmental and climate criteria. But in this form, the aid extends far too far to cars, 200 grams of emissions per kilometre. According to our calculations, an average Finnish car, 10 to 15 years old, would benefit from this discount of EUR 19. This means that this is not sufficiently targeted towards zero-emission and low-emission cars. We have every opportunity to listen to the experts on climate and environmental taxation who call for this step-up to be made in such a way as to have an even more genuine steering effect on the rejuvenating and cleaning of the Finnish car fleet and, as far as possible, on the use of electricity and gas. We must therefore be able to change this proposal so that the buyer of the electric car benefits more than one hundred of this. And for action: I expect the government that is already sitting to move in the direction of abolishing, for example, all power charges and taxes on zero-emission cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u109	Mr President! It is a pleasure to note that Mr Harakka has quoted the very important policies of Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo at yesterday's A-Studio. In response to climate change, the Minister of Finance, Orpohan, expressed the view that, in order to promote zero emissions, the car tax should even be abolished altogether for vehicles that are emission-free or at least low-emission. Similarly, the focus should be shifted to the taxation of the use of cars, because that is where, of course, emissions come from. In my opinion, these guidelines are very welcome and I believe that, in line with this, policy will be set up. The fact that Mr Harakka is trying to bring some contradictions to bear on this matter is a different matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u110	Mr President! This brings us to a very interesting debate. After all, we parliamentarians must register the facts of what is happening. I myself have predicted that around 40,000 of these nine-year-old cars will be imported to Finland this year. They are the ones that let us go, and machines are the wrong technology in relation to what we want, what all parties want. Is this some kind of double standard that we are talking about saving the climate and the world and yet, with our own legislation, we are promoting Finland as a graveyard for used high-emission cars. That's practically what happens. If something needs to be done here, I think that Petteri Orpo is absolutely right to try to eliminate the car tax, and we must try to eliminate it completely, because it is also a question of road safety and the renewal of the car fleet. But it must of course be done in such a way that we do not cause market failures. It has to be done on a long-term basis, but now we have to make plans in that direction. But, Mr Harakka, because we have a lot of people with little money who can no longer afford to drive an expensive Finnish car, this discount comes to the right destination.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u111	Let us go in such a way that, when all the replies that have been asked, I guess they will be taken here by Mr Haraka, and then Mr Harakka will be able to answer them all at once.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u112	Mr President! Yesterday the government was still concerned about the IPCC report and yesterday was still concerned about the progress of climate change, but now we have a bill like this before us. I'm quoting this bill directly. It says this: ‘Taxchanges would reduce the cost of private motoring, with an increase in emissions. “ In other words,the ‘emissionsrelated effect’ is stated in So your own bill is of the opinion that this is not necessarily a good one. And then from the public record, I have picked up the information that experts from the Ministry of Transport and Communications are opposed to this government proposal. I find it quite incomprehensible that, in this Chamber, attempts are being made to accuse us again in the opposition of making a bad policy here. You're doing this bad policy. Make a better and more ambitious climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u113	I have yet to reply to Mr Suutari, Mr Elo and Mr Jalonen and Mr Hoskonen, and then I will give Mr Haraka the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u114	Mr President! We have three consecutive years of reduced car tax and, of course, that line, if it had been, would have been right in this regard for the fourth year. But this time in the negotiations there has been this vehicle tax, on the basis of which the tax on lower-cost cars is facilitated. After all, there will be no relief for a 200 grams - producing car. So the line is clear, in the long run both the car tax has fallen and now the vehicle tax on these low - cost cars is being calculated. There's a side to it. It's not that bad, of course. Personally, I believe that the car tax should be completely abolished, that cars should be replaced, but here too there are fiscal hopes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u115	Mr President! Of course, the government is fast in reverse, but not so fast that one day after the report of the International Climate Panel, we would make a bill for reducing vehicle tax. We are not that quick, but this is, of course, the result of the budget debate. I must say to Mr Haraka that, without reason, you are accusing the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister of this. The blue people, above all, have called for a simple reduction in the tax on motor vehicles, and in time Timo Soini put forward a proposal that the car tax should be abolished altogether. Of course, I welcome the fact that the Orphan is on the same page. After all, this government has been working as ordered, which means that we have gradually reduced the car tax, and the results have been good: the tax has been reduced, but the tax revenue has increased. I can't understand how the demos have resisted it all along. As far as this proposal is concerned, the reduction is particularly focused on low-emission cars, that is to say, climate change is also taken into account here, but not by me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u116	Mr President! I recommend Mr Harakka to continue to listen to his colleagues. This is indeed a proposal to reduce the tax burden on motor vehicles, and I would like this point to be taken into account specifically for families living in rural areas. If, for example, I have a family of five and if you ever pick up a mother-in-law or friends of children, it cannot be very small in bench size, and unfortunately, cars of its size often have higher emissions than some electric car that likes to ride in the middle of the steering wheel. So here, too, we have to take this big picture, the big picture, into account. But the taxation of all transport must be reformed, and that is the task of the future government and the subsequent government. That's what I've got.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u117	Mr President! The preparation of this bill must have taken place at some point, I bet, about a year ago, that is, a good government does not have a crystal ball in its possession, of course, what will happen in a year's time. [TimoHaraka’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u118	The answer is two minutes, Mr Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u119	Mr President! In fact, the message I have just said was repeated here, namely that Minister Orpo said that in the long term we are moving from car taxation to taxation of use, and I said that this is a very long-term idea. But what we are dealing with here is the issue of vehicle taxation, which is also intended to reduce the environmental impact of cars whose effects are not particularly commendable, and there are conflicting arguments from the government. Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Suutari, Mr Eestilä, will then probably sign that the delegation has now had to submit to the pressure of its less environmentally conscious government partner party and thus withdraw the carpet from these pious climate talks which were heard a great deal yesterday on the part of the assembly, as well as from the centre. If, of course, this has been prepared before yesterday's climate panel report, then everyone will now have to know that perhaps a year ago, however, there has been information that climate change is a major and growing problem and that transport plays a part in it. But when Mr Eestilä here rightly deplored the fact that Finnish taxation leads to imports of 9 years old into Finland, this reduction in the vehicle tax you have proposed will only make the situation worse. It will reduce the tax on cars from the cars you just described. I have calculated indiscriminately that a basic car from about 10 to 15 years old in Finland, Toyota Avensis, would benefit 19 euros. You should aim this at non-emission and low-emission cars and stop paying subsidies to environmentally harmful vehicles.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, the Members who are now asking for a reply, all of you are on the list of speakers. Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u121	Mr President! In my opinion, this reduction in the basic vehicle tax rate of EUR 50 million and the targeting of tax reductions specifically on low-emission vehicles is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u124	Mr President! I came here to speak on the podium so that I could speak a little more freely. If you do not believe me or Mrs Harakka, believe this bill. I quote directly the bill and I hope that you will believe your own bill. It states that ‘the proposedreduction of the basic vehicle tax isfocused on low emissions’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u127	Mr President! Finland has long distances, and a large proportion of Finns live outside the reach of public transport. Public transport is generally subsidised transport, but travelling by car in Finland is not subsidised, but is heavily taxed. Depending on the method of calculation, transport is taxed between EUR 7 and 8 billion and transport is invested and EUR 1.5 billion spent. This is a clear example of the fact that if we want to run the entire economy at any levelier cost, then we should look at what transport costs, first of all, for the consumer, of course, but also for the producer and for the industry that is not close to the ports. Well, during this parliamentary term, the government has taken this into account and reduced car tax by EUR 150 million or 15 per cent. Of course, it would wish it were zero, like other rival countries, but there are no such possibilities at the moment. All this time, the aim of this change has been to reduce the car tax on less-emission cars. For example, when I bought a hybrid car, its car tax was already quite small so that it did not have a very high cost in relation to the total cost of the car. Of course this is the right way. But the vehicle tax — it too will have an effect if we keep it high, you could say, just to the industry, people and everything in the regions. We cannot think in such a way that they are criminals, that they have to pay for the ownership of the vehicle, those who are otherwise unable to exploit subsidised public transport. In some ways, of course, I understand these environmental requirements. I personally believe that we should make every effort to promote them, but this has not been the first thing in the negotiations. Of course, it has to be that way all the time, and it has played a part in the fact that it has thought of reducing the tax on lower - cost cars more than it did on those big cars. In my opinion, however, there is not a very large discount on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u128	Mr President! In this government proposal, it is proposed to amend the vehicle tax law so as to reduce by a total of EUR 50 million the rate of the basic vehicle tax based on CO2 emissions from passenger cars and vans. The reduction would be concentrated on low-emission vehicles, which would lead to a slightly sharp increase in the current emission level of the vehicle tax. A tax reduction would mean an average reduction of around EUR 20 per annum in the annual vehicle tax burden for vehicles whose tax is determined on the basis of CO2 emissions. As an important point, I would like to point out that there are around 200,000 passenger cars and 163,000 vans in traffic, i.e. the owner of the vehicle. When the vehicle tax is reduced by an average reduction for a business car, it will mean a reduction in costs of around EUR 6 to EUR 7 million in the business sector, i.e. a reduction in costs, not a further decrease for companies. I also think that this is a good hand for business. The impact of this reduction on households is distributed according to the number and type of vehicles that households own. In any case, this proposal is to be welcomed, even though it is of no use to me when driving a large diesel car itself, but in any case, nature thanks it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u129	Mr President! It was a shame that Mr Harakka left the Chamber just when we got to the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u132	Mr President! Mr Eestilä gave a good speech, and I too am a little disappointed that Mr Harakka left after the debate. I would have liked to point out to Mr Haraka that once the government has reduced the car tax, the demars, with the power of their entire group, have blamed the government for this action and, often in their various alternative budgets, have used the cancellation of the car tax, which the demars have proposed, on many, many other issues. Mr Harakka is now speaking exactly the opposite of his party's alternative budget and the actions he has previously flouted. So I'd really like to know what the demos think today: Do we have to reduce or increase the car tax? And what do I have to do with this vehicle tax? There is simply no line in that demarcation line. But that's the thing. Indeed, as I said in that debate, I hope that this will be used to enable the large family living in rural areas — where there is no public transport — to live and move there. The bigger family car just simply has bigger emissions. Unfortunately, there are no electric cars in the size class that a family with less money could buy one. So this whole thing needs to be taken into account. The whole will indeed become a commitment to the Paris Agreement and to the climate agreements as a whole: they must be answered — and they must be answered in such a way that our society can move, live and feel well. In other words, the whole must be taken into account, and the taxation of mobility cannot be increased, but its nature must be changed and the big picture must be remembered. I wish the next government wise decisions in the management of this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u133	Mr President! I think that this car tax decision is very good and well-founded. Of course it is minor, it must be acknowledged, but a small but important step in the right direction. Mr Harakka's comments on tax tightening and various other commervenges seem rather strange in this time, but it is collected from transport at a rate of more than EUR 8 billion per year. Should there be more burden on that load? I don't think so, but the demars have chosen their line. The big thing goes to driving in Finland because the average age of cars is 11.8 years at the moment, i.e. on average we drive such old cars. In the course of this government, this car tax has been reduced, it has gone in a sensible direction and you have been able to get rid of these the most smoking, the most unfit cars — a very good thing. And Parliament should also remember the fact that a well-functioning car — many have mentioned in this situation a Japanese car brand by name, for example, that car is an absolutely brilliant car, reliable and whatever — should not be allowed to be scrapped because it must be remembered that its electric car is made with a huge amount of natural resources and that its gain is guaranteed to be lost during the manufacturing process if it is scrapped at this stage due to a small tax. So use it, Finns, your current good cars until the end, then scrapping it, and then some such option will have to be taken care of when you buy a new one. It may also be worth remembering that when taxation is directed, this line, which the government has chosen, is right to invest in low-emission cars. And that too should be remembered in Parliament, no matter how hard we criticize each other as parties, that Finland is a sparsely populated country with long distances, and the reference to the fact that public transport in rural areas can get from one place to another is a completely dead letter. There's no more public transport there. If you're going anywhere, you have to be a car, and knowing the weather conditions in Finland — except for last summer, at all other times — some kind of weather protection must be on your head if you're going anywhere. Last summer you could ride a bicycle about 50 kilometres without getting wet and cold, but in all the other years you should accept that we need a car in the countryside and that Finland always needs cars. But in all this passion, you should keep your senses in mind, even in climate policy. There is nothing more to be done than to pulverize and make unnecessary investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u134	Mr President! Representatives Harakka and Yanar have drawn attention to the right thing. This bill, the explanatory statement of which indeed shows that the Ministry of Finance's assessment is that its overall impact is more emissions-enhancing than emissions-reducing, is a good example of the fact that if we really believe that climate change must be reduced to 1.5 degrees, as most of the parliamentary parties' leaders swore yesterday that their own party would want to do, then such legislative proposals and tax changes, which seem to be even smaller and more technical, should be critical of their estimated climate impact. As such, we certainly need a wide range of changes in transport taxation, but I think it would be logical if the tax on the purchase price were to be reduced, that the reduction would be strongly focused on low emissions and that the corresponding money would then be collected through fuel taxation, so that the total emissions of this significant part of the transport which, in itself, accounts for about a fifth of Finland's climate decisions, would not increase. And as far as the abolition of the tax included in the possible purchase price of a car is concerned, my own view is that it can be justified, especially for cars with the lowest emissions but not for cars with the highest emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u135	Mr. Lehti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u136	Mr President! People living in the capital region can choose to use a very dense network of public transport, which is still supported by municipalities, but those living in rural areas do not have this option, but they also pay the cost of public transport in the city through fuel taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u140	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u141	We will now resume the debate on item 9 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u142	Mr President! Of course, with regard to taxation, it must be said that, when we reduce transport taxation, it is a little bit of a matter for us to consider whether or not this is now a goal for us to achieve in terms of transport emissions. I do not want to prolong this further, but there is something to think about. Where are the boundaries? Is there more heavy taxation on those with higher emissions? Now, of course, this bill makes it possible to reduce taxation on lower-emission cars more. But is the limit where this discount is down enough, or should there be a tax reduction for even lower-emission cars that would lead even more effectively to lower-emission cars? This is a debate that I am sure will be held on the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u143	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 7/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Mr Hassi, chairman of the committee, on a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u144	Mr President! It's the burning of horse manure. This issue is included in the Government Programme, even in the lead project, and the bill is therefore based on the Government Programme. This has been made possible by the amendment of the European Union's by-products regulation, which has facilitated exemptions for the use of manure for fuel purposes. In its unanimous report, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection accepts the government's proposal, which means that the manure of horses and other farmed animals can be used as a fuel without the general requirements of waste incineration legislation when incineration takes place in units of 50 MW or less. However, the committee notes that in the case of combustion plants with a farm scale, for technical economic reasons in general, the main requirement for combustion to take 2 seconds, i.e. at least 2 seconds, is not met and that the temperature of combustion is at least 850 °C in order to minimise harmful emissions. As a result, manure, when it ends up incinerating, is likely to be transported further to larger combustion plants. The Committee also notes that there are technical problems with incineration, including the fact that manure contains ammonia and moisture and that fuel handling systems are not the easiest fuel. Well, the Ministry of the Environment, together with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment and Evira, is working on more detailed guidelines. However, the Committee on the Environment would like to stress that the primary use of manure is a fertiliser and soil improver. This primary use as soil improver and fertiliser in fields is also in line with the general circular economy objectives set by the government and parliament, and also with the objectives of circumventing our food and land-based nutrients in the most rational way possible. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection notes that, if we can improve the recycling of manure nutrients, it will also be possible to safeguard the future of domestic food production, because the manure always contains phosphorus, which is a non-renewable resource and which everything we grow for food necessarily needs. In the EU, phosphorus has been added to the list of critical materials as it comes mainly from apatite mines located outside the EU, with estimates of adequacy ranging from 60 to 400 years. But if now the reality is that there is only enough phosphorus for 60 years — well, it may sound long and quite a few of us may think that we ourselves will no longer live 60 years from now, at least I am quite realistically able to think about it, but if we consider when it was 60 years ago, it was 1958. It is not so far in the past, and if people would have thought that OK, we can use up the world’s phosphorus, including by burning it down in 60 years, then today we would probably be pretty angry with these people. Therefore, for quite a number of reasons, because it is important, in the interests of climate protection, to increase the carbon content of the soil and all this bio-based soil improver and manure is also important in the fields in that sense, and also because, in particular, phosphorus, perhaps the most critical, is the non-renewable resource that we need for cultivation in the fields, for food production, the Committee on the Environment wishes to emphasise this primary use of manure in the fields. The committee also notes that the HELMET project, namely horse manure for use, is looking for new operating models to make it easier and more straightforward to deliver manure from the stables to the fields than is currently the case. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also stresses the need to monitor the impact of this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u145	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Environmental Protection Act and the Act on animal by-products. In the future, manure from farmed animals can be used as a fuel without complying with the requirements of the waste incineration legislation. At the same time, the goal of the Government Programme on Bioeconomy and Clean Solutions is possible to allow the use of horse manure in energy production. The challenges of manure incineration are considered to be mainly related to the ammonia, wetness or fuel treatment systems contained therein. With the presentation, the fuel use of manure can increase by up to 100,000 tonnes per year. I think that is a significant amount. According to the proposal, the use of manure as fuel is expected to increase from around 4% to 20% to 30%. Such changes in percentages are rarely seen. It is clear that the use of manure as a nutrient and soil improver as such is the preferred and most sensible method of recovery. However, this is not always possible. The use of manure as such in livestock production areas is restricted by environmental protection legislation aimed at protecting water. The field use of horse manure is limited by the fertilisation plan, which also takes into account the nutrient status of the arable parcel, its location and also the plant to be cultivated. It is clear that more efficient recycling of manure nutrients will also ensure domestic food production in the future, as competition for scarce phosphorus resources will increase and fertiliser prices will continue to rise. Phosphorus has already been placed on the list of critical materials in the EU. It comes mainly from apatite reserves outside Europe. Their estimates of adequacy vary between 60 and 400 years. In any case, nutrients, including manure, should be seen as more of a resource in the future than a problem. Horse manure has been seen for ages as good for flower beds, and that is what it will continue to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u146	Mr President! Indeed, this amendment to the Environmental Protection Act makes sense, and I am deeply saddened by the fact that environmental policy once again left rural people in this area to be somewhat harassed, because this burning of horse manure in Sweden has been possible for ages and the same EU is still alive. That an example of how a Swede can handle this job, and we Finnish farmers in rural areas have been bullied with the most imaginative regulations of the Environmental Protection Act and the Nature Conservation Act. Well, luckily, however, this red tape is on the way, and it is always worth remembering when it comes to the burning of horse manure that the farmer or the farmer himself knows what is the best use of the manure, whether it is burning in a furnace or in a pot or whether it is the nutrient of the field or, in the best case, whether he puts it in a bag of horse manure and sells it in the market in the spring with a big profit to those who care for his garden as a good product, which is otherwise, as Mr Kulmala said, an excellent fertilizer for that purpose. Whether that is the case or not, I hope that Finland will finally and finally understand that the use of its own mind is acceptable and even desirable, and that these absurd environmental protection provisions are constantly being cut off and made more effective in people's lives and making it easier for bureaucracy, because it is probably the only way in the long run.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u147	Mr President! I am very pleased and delighted that horse manure is finally being made available for energy use. Legislative proposals to facilitate manure incineration are expected, and the entire horse sector has worked for this for a long time and with determination. Not only does the horse sector have a significant employment impact in Finland, but it also plays an important role as a creator of leisure opportunities for people and even residents, and the horse sector enables many residents to get close to horses. It is therefore worth securing the conditions for the horse sector to operate. It provides jobs and leisure activities in Finland. After years of horse riding and horse riding and working at the stables, I myself have seen the absurd situation that we have had in force in Finland for many years at the same time as other EU countries have managed to apply EU regulations much more rationally. It is an excellent thing that the matter has now been put in order in Finland as well. I am delighted that determined work with the horse industry finally produced results. Fortunately, during the last government negotiations, we received a strong, binding entry into the government programme and, in the name of the dismantling of standards, the work started to move forward. So thank you to the government for bringing the show to the finish line. Waste incineration permits are no longer required for manure incineration in energy production units of up to 50 MW. Until now, manure incineration was only allowed in waste incineration plants. Incineration in small and medium-sized units of less than 50 MW is now considered to be energy production rather than waste incineration. Energy is no longer being wasted, as has been the case so far, but horse manure is being made available for use, for example for heating, instead of being driven by rubber wheels, for example, to landfill. Thank you to the Government for making the necessary changes to the Environmental Protection Act and the Act on animal by-products. So now the law allows horses, but also other farm animals, to burn manure into energy. Incineration is no longer required. In Finland, there are about 70,000 horses, and the calculation, which is old but probably true, is that the house is easily heated by the manure of 4 to 5 horses. In other words, a significant issue is being discussed, and this law will enable the Finnish horse manure industry to be used in a much more rational economic way and also in a more environmentally sound way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u148	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 12/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u149	Mr President! The amendment of the Government's legislation at first reading relates to the amendment of the tax rules, and there are actually two proposals which I can briefly comment on here. The second relates to the promotion of the digitisation of public services and is in line with the leading project of digitisation of public services by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government. The second proposal is about cutting red tape, which is also the pet of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's government. In Finland, more than 10 million paper decisions are sent annually for income and real estate taxation. Here this amendment concerns the possibility for the Tax Administration to communicate decisions and other documents electronically. Consequently, there is no such right at present, which is why the taxable person is still being sent by post, for example, pre-presented tax returns and final tax rulings. It is essential that this new procedure, the electronic procedure, in these contexts, according to this government proposal, requires the consent of the taxable person and that the tax documents are accessible only to the taxable person and to the person expressly authorised by him. In addition, the decision or other document itself could only be examined on the Tax Administration's own online service. In other words, a notification of decisions taken will be sent to the e-mail address provided by the taxable person. This is important because in the future, annual taxation will end on a taxpayer-by-tax basis. In the view of the Committee on Finance, this amendment on electronic notification is justified and supported. However, the Committee also draws attention to the protection of tax information in the use of taxable persons. In other words, the viewing rights of OmaTax, the online service of the Tax Administration, can be either limited or comprehensive, and some decisions concerning companies may be such that access to them by an employee otherwise authorised to do so is not always justified. This relates, for example, to situations where there is a preliminary ruling on business reorganisations or other situations that are important for business secrecy. The second point, which relates to bureaucracy, is that a natural person no longer has to present a certificate of the production of a so-called construction declaration in the final inspection of construction projects, since this is now a task of the Tax Administration and is part of the tax supervision of the construction sector. Similarly, the construction authority would no longer have to report a possible lack of proof, as the Tax Administration will receive the information it needs for supervision through other means. This government proposal did not give rise to any understandable political passions, and the committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u150	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 10/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-09-ps-97.u151	Mr President! Indeed, this is the government's proposal for a law amending the Aliens Act, and it proposes to amend the provisions on the enforceability of expulsion decisions so that decisions on expulsion in the area of public policy and security can be implemented more quickly. I myself, or in the police, did these expulsions, and in practice I saw how long it was — for several years — the process of expulsion. I was therefore very pleased when, with the help of our government negotiators, we were already able to get a record of speeding up this process, the process of expulsion, and that is what is now happening. After all, the current situation is that the expulsion decision cannot be enforced before it has the force of law. Mr President! According to the proposal, certain expulsion decisions based on offences or on the risk of public order and security could be enforced at the earliest 30 days after notification, unless otherwise determined by the administrative court. Mr President! Let me briefly point out that this government proposal must be supported and also responds to the lack of police resources, you can say that it is not only because the police have a lot of activity, then they have to follow these people, and when they stay here longer and longer, it will take them all the longer. Since we actually know that the criteria are strong as to why a person should be expelled from the country, it is in practice simply to be viewed and expected. Of course, they have every right to see whether there are any reasons why expulsion would not be carried out. Mr President! Thank you for this government proposal.
