ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u1	First of all, I would like to remind Members that tomorrow is Parliament's official day of exercise, and I hope that this day of exercise can be attended as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u3	Madam President! This is a big and important issue and, in fact, to many of the people concerned, a vital issue in many respects. This is precisely where it makes it easier for visually impaired people to obtain Finnish works for them to achieve. It is therefore a question of reforming the copyright law in order to improve the opportunities for the visually impaired and other print-outs to get their hands on books, printed books, including notes and other types of materials of this kind. They could therefore be made into copies that are accessible to the visually impaired or otherwise printable, such as Braille, large text, e-book or audiobook. I have a few acquaintances who regularly raise and worry about these issues, and that is how I feel about this problem a lot. In Finland we have about 80,000 people with visual impairments and less than 800,000 hearing impairments, and in fact this group is growing in a certain way as our population ages. For example, from time to time an active successor to parliamentary debates is contacted because when these parliamentary sessions, such as Question Time, are interpreted in sign language today, why is it not able to provide live text to them, which is used today, for example, in news broadcasts. For example, he feels that following a democratic place important to many ageing people, that is, Parliament, is very difficult today, partly because — and I am often guilty of it — there is alarm and interference here and it makes it difficult to hear, but also because they do not hear, even if it is so wonderfully quiet in this Chamber as it is at the moment. I would like, Mr President, and the officials who are leading us, to see this good government proposal taken in the wake of a determined effort to move forward, for example, with these key debates for democracy, such as those on Question Hours or on mid-term discussions or on Prime Minister communications or others, in the future. That is absolutely possible, and today's technology offers a good chance of doing so. Let us hope that this too can be put right. These two issues are also related to network accessibility, for which some praise must also be given to state actors. Today, around 15% of Finns are already affected by web accessibility, and it is a question of being visually impaired or partially sighted, but also of a variety of incompetences. Today, I often find it so difficult to use a service, which can only be achieved today via the Internet and electronic services, that when I, for example, applied for a building permit, I had to supply some of the materials on paper when I did not know how to use that electronic system or it did not work in the way I think it should have worked, and yet I consider myself to be overly aware of the use of these electronic services. That is why I hope that the web accessibility will be better taken into account on Parliament's website, not to mention the website of the tax authority, Kela and other service providers. Mr President! This amendment to the copyright law, which implements the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, is a step in the right direction for everyone to enjoy our fine literature as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u4	Mr President! The amendment of the Copyright Act to improve access to existing works for visually impaired and other printable persons is a very welcome reform. There are few praises for the government, but this is a worthy cause and a proposal. [Department : Always buttering up! ] It is proposed that a written work, a printed book, a sheet of music or an image contained in such a work should, without the consent of the rightholder, produce a copy which is accessible to the visually impaired or otherwise printable. The works could be produced in Braille, large-scale text, e-book or audiobook, for example. The work to be achieved could also include features of special navigation or descriptive interpretation. Authorised entities providing services related to disability or reading should be allowed to produce and exchange copies of the legally available works in accessible form with other authorised entities established in the European Economic Area. Authorised entities should ensure that copies are manufactured exclusively for use by persons covered by the Directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u5	Madam President! Indeed, this proposal proposes to amend the copyright law in such a way as to facilitate the use of works by visually impaired and other print-outs. This is a good thing in itself and indeed in accordance with the directive. Thus, without the rightholder’s consent, a printed book, a literary work, a sheet of music or a picture contained in such a work could be produced by a copy which is accessible to the visually impaired or otherwise printable. All this is a very good thing, but I would like to remind you that the author has the right to compensation in respect of audiobooks to the current extent that a controlled community established in Finland would produce a work in accessible form. Of course, making audiobooks for the visually impaired is important, but it must also be ensured that there is no risk of manipulation here and that the authors will also receive their compensation, but in such a way as to extend it to include Braille.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u6	Madam President! I only wanted to speak because I believe that the principle of this draft law is very important. It is, of course, the promotion of accessibility and, as has been said here, the better opportunities for visually impaired people to enjoy literature and other material — an absolutely positive thing. And, of course, it is also important that every time such things are developed and moved forward, we act in such a balanced way that we also remember that copyright is the artist's livelihood, and it is also extremely important to secure it in a wise and proper way. That is why I consider it important to take steps of this kind in order to be able to develop an equal society. In my view, when the Committee on Education and Rural Development deals with this proposal, it might perhaps be possible for the committee to reflect a little more on precisely the possibilities of taking even more account, for example, of visually impaired people in this society. I therefore encourage the committee to be active here and to make a good report on this matter here in the feedback debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u7	Madam President! This government proposal is good and also responds to calls and communications from visually impaired people, at least myself. At regular intervals, I get to answer whether the opportunity to listen to audiobooks is maintained and how Braille books are done, how the visually impaired are able to read. This proposal is very good, and especially that copyright is taken into account, and that is where everyone wins — reading belongs to everyone. And you can also listen: audiobook is a good thing. Let us cherish it and ensure that even small operators can produce audiobooks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u8	Madam President! Other Members have already made good speeches, which are easy to agree with, and I agree that the important objective of this proposal is, in particular, accessibility and equality, access to these and access to and use of these materials. But, as has been said here, perhaps the contradiction in the proposal is that, at the same time, these copyright issues go hand in hand with its objective of accessibility. Certainly it is important to take into account the fact that there will not be the wrong kind of confrontation, because, in the worst case scenario, it will be eating from both sides of the agendas which have been set up on the one hand, as it were, in the interests of accessibility and, on the other hand, from the point of view of the protection of intellectual property rights, that we do not end up in some sort of stagnant situation. It's a delicate interface, but you have to take care of it. Then, perhaps from a copyright point of view, when I look at those statements, one question is how we will define these works to be replaced in the future. Now that much is determined by the fact that the user is left with the material as it were permanently, but then, in view of the various streaming services already in existence, for example, and how they will develop in the future, how will all of this affect it: what does it mean that the work and content end up with the user, and thus continue to safeguard their copyright? Another point raised in the opinions, of course: from the point of view of this obligation to monitor, it must of course be borne in mind that it also requires resources, and it is also important to bear that in mind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u9	Madam President! This web accessibility is an interesting issue overall and is extremely important, especially when it comes to older people — not to mention either visually impaired or someone who does not have the senses in all ways at the level of being able to operate and apply for these services without hindrance. It is also extremely important, therefore, that we should not only be able to move forward through legislation, but also at company level, so that our major players are involved in a system such as this, which creates very easy operating and service opportunities, that is to say, moving forward. And when the rapporteur minister is here on the spot and, if necessary, twice as much as possible, I would like to ask about this resource issue, because legislation alone does not guide this issue, but it also requires a broader approach from society and, above all, from businesses. If we are thinking now of Kela, Postia, VR, many actors of this kind, then how they take a stand in their own actions on this issue is, in principle, such a basis for a civilised society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u10	Madam President! In my opinion, too, this bill is very good in itself for making books available to the visually impaired, and these aspects of this copyright issue are indeed worthy of consideration. I understand that copyright organisations have voiced criticism from the point of view that today, when there are different digital streaming possibilities and others, the question arises as to how copyright compensation as it were to remain involved in this technical issue. Of course, it is very important that when we look at copyright, we take into account the fact that there are new platforms and uses, for example, to make literature available to people. As legislators, we should also pay attention to this. But, as such, I am very much in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u11	Mr President! I agree with the thanks for the fact that this is a good bill. Everyone, the whole Parliament, is very happy to receive it, and that is great. But I would now like to ask you a question like this when Mr Toivola raised a good and interesting point about the fact that accessibility and copyright should not be placed against each other. I would like to ask the Minister: has this point of view been considered and considered already in relation to the government's proposal? Is there such a risk that this might happen, and then the committee would really have to think about these matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u12	Madam President! This bill is indeed a good one and deserves all the thanks that have been given here. But I too would like to ask the Minister a question about the library activities of the visually impaired. So there is Celia, a library of visually impaired persons under the authority of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The situation is that in recent years the budget allocated for the activities provided for by the law has decreased significantly, by around 30%, and, for cost reasons, the use of online services has increased. However, it is known that some customers are unable to use online services, especially older people, i.e. around 10 to 20 per cent of customers need more than just online services. I ask about this resource issue: how does the Minister see whether the resources are sufficient to secure these services?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u13	Madam President! In fact, one more question came to my mind for the Minister on this subject, which is what we are talking about here. However, when it comes to copyright and the livelihood of creators from that point of view, we have a very topical issue on the agenda of Parliament today, that is, in the future budget, this compensatory payment — the compensation paid to creative workers, which is now a couple of years, a few years, paid from the state budget. Both the Committee on Culture and Education in its opinion to us, to the Committee on Finance, and then the Committee on Finance in its own report last spring, within the framework of the framework, raised this issue with a reduction of EUR 5 million. Of course, there was a lot of criticism from the organisations that why did I do so, and the committees, as I mentioned, paid attention to this issue. If the Minister could already, a little in advance, shed light on this situation too, because I do not think that this should be the case. This level, 11 million, at the time, was defined, and it was already discretionary in itself, it was estimated what it could be, and even then there was feedback that it might not be sufficient. But that was an important principle: the long-term problem was solved by the fact that it was then transferred to the budget and given a certain obligation to monitor and settle. And now, before the studies have been carried out, this $5 million will be cut. If the Minister would like to comment on this right now — then I am sure we will continue this debate with regard to the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u14	Mr President! I would have come back to this intellectual property income in the sense that I really have concerns about whether this criticism by copyright organisations has now been taken into account in the ministry. Copyright is a tool of this kind, which is intended to make copyright material available to the public and then to ensure the livelihood of the authors. And now that we know that technology is evolving, we have more and more electronic ways of getting works in non-physical pieces for us to read, of course, the question arises of this generation of income. I would have asked: how does the ministry react to this criticism of copyright organisations? On the other hand, my question also concerns this criticism of control. If I have understood this bill correctly, these libraries should ensure that, as it were, this material is only available to these particular beneficiaries and does not end up in other hands. But how is it in practice possible to monitor it, and are we then allocating resources to, for example, the library of visually impaired people to carry out this monitoring task? Then I would have thanked the representative as well. The reference to the fact that he raised this question of compensation cutbacks. It came quite suddenly to my mind, without any kind of public debate. Indeed, I would have asked, now that it relates to this creation of income for creative workers, which is where it came from. And finally, so that the Minister of Culture does not get too easy, I will ask about it when, as a midsummer, you put a lottery law on the table to deal with the disadvantages of the game. It is a very good objective as such, and I warmly support it, but if this prevention of harm is effective, then that means that you will at the same time decide to cut the budget for the beneficiaries. So is the government prepared to budget culture, the prevention of young people's exclusion, physical activity and so on for the money that this prevention of disadvantages will then cut out from there, because if you do not, then you will, as it were, cut some of the budget of cultural authors, creators, etc. with this lottery law? Is that your intention?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u15	Mr President! Of course, the issue of copyright for me as a journalist is extremely important. The issue of copyright is also important for all cultural players because it gives a certain perspective to value its work and to take forward its work. I really think that these copyright issues should be put on the right table and watched. In fact, it seems a little funny if we categorize that, for example, audiobooks are meant only for the visually impaired. I think that's a strange starting point. We have a very large number of people with low literacy, but audiobooks will allow them to get into the world of literature, and the elderly will also have a much better access to the world of literature — and we too, the citizens who live in places where there are long journeys. It is very nice to put an audio book in your ears and start listening to it or a sound book playing in your car when driving. That it's not the only one who uses it. If we receive copyright fees for these too, then perhaps we will be better able to guarantee that authors and creators in general will have the opportunity to receive an artist’s pension and that their pension matters should be properly handled. Then they would be compensated for the work they have done in the past. I would ask the Minister to pay attention to this. Of course, it is also necessary to add the pensions of journalists, not to cut them either, but to keep them at the same level as before and, rather, to raise them a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u16	Here's the questions. Would Secretary Terho like to respond? — Minister Terho, 5 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u17	Mr President! Thank you for your support. This really is a rather unpolitical and certainly a good project that everyone is in favour of in principle. However, a number of these issues were raised, which I am sure should be addressed here. First of all, it is precisely this guarantee of the livelihood of copyright holders. It is, of course, a priority whenever reform is being prepared in the Ministry. I was prepared for this to become some kind of debate, and here I can comment on this: The copyright law in force provides for the right of the author to receive compensation when a copy of the work is permanently held by the visually impaired person, for example, a book of sound produced and delivered to the visually impaired under copyright restriction. It is proposed to maintain this right of compensation. The possibility of retaining the right to compensation was included in this directive as a result of a strict twist. The need to develop the right to compensation has been discussed during the drafting of the law. The important objective of the directive and the legislative amendments resulting from it is to facilitate and improve the daily lives of visually impaired people — clearly so. The coordination of the various interests involved in the use of works is therefore now necessary and important. When the commercial record market is in constant development and services can be made more accessible in different ways, it is also possible to learn from abroad for these best practices. In view of the above, this issue should then be re-evaluated on the basis of a review of the impact of the Directive, which is to be done by the Commission in 2020. In other words, the matter has been discussed in advance and we will certainly return to it afterwards when we see the results. The directive itself does not contain any justification for extending or amending the right of compensation currently in force. Otherwise, I would really like to thank you for this support at this stage and, of course, I hope that the proposal will be dealt with in a timely manner, for which there was clearly a readiness here. Then, as a separate issue, a topical issue was raised about the compensation payment, which is indeed threatening a clear bill, which is now being implemented in a limited manner. The bill is therefore simply due to the rules that were laid down for this system long before I took up office, but I have and my ministry have negotiated this slighting, which is to say that this is now an exception to the rules agreed at the time, and the cut will not be as large as they were originally agreed upon. So this kind of thinning has been obtained, but the problem is permanent, because with the calculation criteria that were agreed then, it would appear that the refund payment will continue to fall, so here is still a place for further reflection on how to get this to a sustainable basis. But this really has nothing to do with the original subject, and let us go back to it more broadly some other time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u18	Mr President! I understand that today we are not really discussing this matter of compensation, but since the Minister has just commented on it — I think it was a good idea to make a comment — but let us say that in the country where I am going,when the compensatory payment was laid down,that it was started to be paid from the national budget,it was said that before a more precise adjustment is made to the objective,thereis a need for this kind of party inquiry,thereto be an objective analysis of what would be. At least in the feedback I read from the organizations, it was considered strange that this 5 million had been taken before these reports had been made. This is also a curious question, why this and why the timetable goes so far as to cut 5 million already in the budget. Personally, I am in favour of the fact that this issue still needs to be dealt with very carefully when the budget for Parliament is due, both in the Committee on Education and Finance. In this sitting, I say that I do not think that this cut of 5 million is fair, and that is why I hope that Parliament will pay strong attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u19	Mr President! The Minister failed to answer that question raised by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto regarding the amendment of the lottery law in this area and the possible loss of gambling profits for the beneficiaries of the bet. That is what it means if this lottery law is changed, that it is likely that the profits will fall. It must be understood when making such a change. And you just have to accept that profits will fall when you reduce your gambling handicaps, it's a pretty clear fact that will follow. It is also a key factor, which is why the lottery law cannot be changed so quickly, nor can the game offering of Veikkaus be reduced very quickly so that the loss of the proceeds of the game is not so great. In my opinion, at least it is a rather strange idea that somewhere there should be a mass from which the money will then be taken, which will be lost in this context. But it's about the big millions. I don't know where else that money could be cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u20	The issue is now under discussion under copyright law, and these lottery law issues do not belong to Minister Terho.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u21	Mr President! I am concerned about the creation of income for workers in the creative sectors, which is an aspect of this legislative proposal. This was also noticed by many other Members of Parliament who then took it up and asked questions to the Minister for Culture in this regard, and I think that was quite justified at this point. Similarly, I think it was quite right to bring up the lottery law here, because the government made its statement quite unexpectedly on the eve of the Midsummer Opinion and there has been no public debate on how this lottery law affects, for example, the funding of cultural organisations. After all, this is a bill from the Ministry of the Interior, but the cultural budget is decided specifically in the administrative sector, which belongs to the Minister for Culture. That is why I thought it quite appropriate to raise the question here of whether the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Culture are working together at this point when the Minister for the Interior enacts a law that cuts directly the funding of cultural actors, i.e. how this is coordinated. Yes, my understanding is that if gambling is genuinely reduced, which is a goal and a good thing, and if, as the proposal estimates, the funding of beneficiaries is reduced by 5% a year, then it is of course good for society: it saves money for society, for example in the social sector, when the disadvantages of low incomes are reduced. As a society, it seems to me that the result of this is that we could very well afford to allocate more funds to cultural funding, which is at a relatively low level in Finland, for example, compared to other European countries or, for example, the countries of Central Europe. In other words, I think that it makes sense in this Chamber to discuss whether the state's tax revenue should then be increased to finance culture if there is a reduction in the funding of betting profits. I think this is a relevant question, and I am in fact very sorry that there is not much discussion about cultural policy in Finland, nor that, for example, this kind of lottery bill will be presented in the middle of the summer in Finland, when all the organisations are on summer holidays and no cultural organisation has probably had time to concentrate and focus on this issue. Yes, I think that it will be appropriate to discuss the funding of culture in the coming autumn as a separate matter in this Chamber and preferably many times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u22	Madam President! I am sure we are all concerned that the income creation of creative workers will be stronger and sufficient in the future, but I would like to thank Minister Terho for this proposal for having taken action. It is precisely from the point of view of income that culture, literature, books and other things that affect this government's proposal can be achieved by all of us. Copyright is one of its own questions here, and they must be resolved, but the fact that we are making literature accessible to all is, in my opinion, definitely the cornerstone of this proposal and the fundamental value that must be promoted and nurtured. It has emerged here that we are developing a commercial record market. That is true, but in the future, when this need grows, we also need means for audiobooks that do not necessarily come true on commercial grounds, and then it is good to look for solutions to this type of question. But Minister Terho has done a good job in this regard from the point of view of copyright law, this question, which specifically guarantees that every person has the right to good literature and to enjoy literature, whether it is that poor reading or poor vision or sound or any other restriction, so that they are not able to use, for example, a traditional book or even an electric book — then these diverse solutions are needed. This is a good show from a good government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u23	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u24	Madam President! There is therefore a government proposal to amend the pharmaceutical law and the pharmaceutical safety and development law. Much has been said in recent years about the need for change in the pharmacy sector. There is now a government proposal to improve and make pharmacy activities more flexible. The proposal proposes to extend the criteria for the establishment of a new pharmacy. This change would allow for an increase in the number of pharmacies and thus promote competition in the sector. In assessing the conditions for setting up a pharmacy, Fimea would take greater account of the need for pharmacy services in addition to ensuring access to medicines. This assessment should take full account of the needs of the population living and working in the region. Fimea could also decide to set up a pharmacy specifically in connection with the social welfare or health care unit, such as the hospital. Pharmaceutical activities would be improved in other ways: The notification procedure for pharmacy permits would be simplified. The consideration of the applicant’s criminal convictions would be explicitly provided for as part of the pharmacy permit process. The change of pharmacy would be speeded up by shortening the time limit for receipt of the pharmacy. Rights and obligations in case of change of pharmacists would be specified. Fimea would be granted the right to temporarily close the pharmacy in serious situations that endanger patient safety. Other changes in the pharmaceutical sector are also included in the proposal. In the future, the Social Services Service Unit could maintain a limited pool of medicines for joint use for the unpredictable or temporary medical needs of residents. This would improve the proper implementation of drug treatment for residents. The law would also provide, inter alia, for Fimea's right to levy fees for its inspections. Changes in EU legislation would change the provisions on good manufacturing practices and the reporting of adverse drug reactions and make the necessary amendments to the pharmaceutical law as required by the EU Data Protection Regulation. This present proposal has also been referred to as the Pharmacy 1 package and is intended to implement the Government's guidelines in spring 2017. Work will continue with the so-called Pharmacy 2 package, which is currently under preparation. The intention is also to implement other Government Pharmacy Guidelines in another government proposal during the autumn. These include improving the availability of self-care medicines and changing the price of self-care medicines to a regulated maximum price. The Ministry will also prepare an evaluation report on the pharmaceuticals package, which will provide the basis for further orientations for the future in the pharmaceutical field. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u25	Mr President! The government's proposal for a pharmaceutical law is the answer to the public pressure that has required the pharmacy market to be repaired. These changes, however, do not remedy the problem, but actually feel that we are buying more time in the face of the inevitable. Since this legislative reform, virtually nothing has changed and the pharmacy market will continue to be a legitimate cartel with the same price and the same exclusion. It leads to regional monopolies, i.e. a situation which would not be accepted in any other sector, as it is not in the interests of consumers. For some reason, basic business principles do not apply to the pharmacy market. There are four changes that need to be made in the pharmacy market, which are very simple: anyone who meets the criteria for the sector and wants to set up a pharmacy must have access to a pharmacy, a pharmacy must be able to own more than a pharmacist, pharmacy chains must be allowed, and the fixed price of medicines must be converted into a ceiling price. These changes are feasible in such a way that they do not endanger the safety of medicines or medication, but the service and availability will improve while prices may fall. Mr President! Opponents of opening up the market may say that medicines will then be sold in the grocery store and the misuse of medicines will increase. That is not true. In the future, medicines should only be sold by those who meet the strict criteria of the sector. The opening of the market may be opposed by saying that the knowledge of pharmacies will decrease if the pharmacy is no longer owned by a pharmacist. No, it's not. The pharmacists would still be personally responsible for the activities of the pharmacy as they are today. Equally, it would be justified to require that only doctors be allowed to own a hospital or pilots an airline. Market opening may be opposed by saying that, if allowed, chains will take over the market and only large operators will remain. Chains take over the market because they do things better and more efficiently than small units. If the little ones were better, the chains couldn't compete with them. It is clear that the competition authority must prevent individual chains from growing to such an extent that they hamper the functioning of the market. This can be done by setting strict limits on the market share of one operator. The opening-up of the market may be opposed by saying that foreign operators will then take over the market. If this type of protectionism were practiced in other sectors, we would not have Gigantti, Bauhaus or Lidl. It is difficult to imagine that this would be in the interests of consumers. The opening up of the market may be opposed by saying that the price of medicines will then vary from one region to another, thereby putting people in a position of inequality. If the current fixed price is converted into a ceiling price, prices will not rise, but they may fall somewhere. Is it equality to prevent people in a particular area from buying their medicines at a lower price? This is particularly the case for people who are deprived and who are taking a lot of medicines. There is no way out of this if, for example, the people of Oulu would get their medicine cheaper in the future. Or if so, we might as well ask whether it is reasonable for people living elsewhere in the country to be cheaper than in Oulu. Should we, in the name of equality, increase rents throughout the country to the highest level of rent or regulate the price of food, electricity, water or heat everywhere to the same level? However, these are just as important for people as drugs. Opening up the market may be opposed by saying that pharmacies disappear from small places. All pharmacies in Finland are profitable. There is no reason to stop profitable business even if the market is liberalised. Of course, there may be another pharmacy in a small town and competition between pharmacies. Of this, it is often said that the activities will then be unprofitable for both of us and will go bankrupt. But that is not the way the market economy works, the second pharmacy will remain if there was no room for both. It is because of the competition that pharmacies have had to improve their service, opening hours and possibly lower prices. Data from Norway, for example, show that since the opening of the pharmacy market no pharmacy has been lost in any small town, but many small towns have received their first pharmacy. And perhaps the funniest example: opening up the market may be resisted by saying that pharmacists pay a huge amount of taxes. If the law is changed, the tax revenue will be reduced. There's no head or tail in this criticism. For example, it forgets that two-thirds of the pharmacy turnover comes directly from the public sector, i.e. we run money between these operators. In addition, if the aim is to maximise tax revenues, it would be just as sensible to do so with food and to prevent grocers from selling food at lower prices to maximise tax revenues. Mr President! In its simplicity, we currently have a system in which the authority decides how many pharmacies are allowed to exist, where they are located and who are allowed to act as pharmacies. This is not changing. In addition, the law prevents pharmacies from selling their medicines at a lower price, even if the pharmacy would like to do so. It was a pleasure to hear that there may be a change in this with regard to self-care medicines, and hopefully this will also apply in the future to prescription medicines. But this current situation has led, for example, to the university's Pharmacy not being allowed to open new offices. You tell me how we serve the interests of the Finnish consumer and the taxpayer when we block the possibility for an operator such as the University Pharmacy to set up new pharmacies in new areas. Imagine a similar system for grocery stores or hospitals, and you will understand the folly. In addition, the system is so twisted that pharmacists are allowed to complain about new licences. It's kind of like a grocer complaining to the court about opening a food store next to a rival chain, and it's going to end up in court for years and with taxpayers' money. The pharmacist’s permission to complain about the new licences makes me ask whether the pharmacies actually exist primarily for pharmacists and not for consumers. Fortunately, however, a slight change is now being made in this area too. In Finland, the wholesale price of medicines is the lowest in the Nordic countries. At the same time, retail prices of medicines are highest in the Nordic countries. It tells us that the pharmacy margin is unnecessarily large. According to several estimates, we make an annual transfer of some 100 million from consumers and taxpayers to around six hundred pharmacies. This is something that pharmacists have managed to hold on to, even though the online trade in medicines is allowed — it is only allowed for those who have a pharmacy on a stone leg. So how is it possible that medicines can be sold by mail to all Finns, but no new operators will be allowed into the industry if they do not open up the store to some localities, and it is difficult to get permission from the authorities? Mr President! For some reason, the opening up of the pharmacy market has proved to be confusingly difficult. Perhaps it is because the preparation has been in the hands of those who benefit from the system. It should be remembered that Kalevi Sorsa was already driving the opening up of the market in 1990 or that Urho Kekkonen spoke about this in the early 1950s. It is clear that the pharmacy market will not be properly repaired during this term of government. That is why I wish all of you who are involved in the next government negotiations: let us put this matter in order during the next government term, even because the current system is guaranteed to be unconstitutional, in which freedom of business is guaranteed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u26	Looks like they want to go to the debatt, so let's open the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u27	Mr President! I do think that Mr Vartia has some fresh ideas, but it would be interesting to hear how other Greens, for example, will react to this reform. For example, if you take Mr Aalto's positions, he says that the regulation should be dropped, but he says, for example, that there are no self-care medicines on the shelf, so in fact this pharmacy two will go further than, for example, Mr Aalto's policies. And we do not know what other position to take on this issue. Perhaps my question is more about the pharmacy number two, where these larger changes come in: what time will this be here in the future? Undoubtedly, this government is running out of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u28	Madam President! Medicines are not just any consumer commodity, they cannot be compared to rye bread. Citizens feel that the availability of medicines everywhere in Finland is important — and this is how it is added, that is a good thing — but there are so many factors involved that big changes in the moment are certainly not possible. Minister Mattila well opened up this legal content. Here I would like to comment on two points, the excellent points made by this amendment of the law: the possibility of setting up pharmacies in the context of social welfare and health care services, and also the possibility for social services to store pharmaceuticals. This is a hugely important reform of the large connections between sparsely populated areas and Finland. Thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u29	Mr President! Indeed, this government is running out of time, and this is the proposal that we have before us now. As the Minister said in his own presentation, the pharmaceutical sector has been very much on the agenda. The expectations of the citizens are high and we are talking about something that affects all of us in one way or another, but clearly the government does not have the courage and even the time. What should have been done would have been a careful, comprehensive study of how the pharmaceutical market and the pharmaceutical industry in Finland should be reformed, but even this was not enough courage for the government. We are now moving along the path of these packages and we are waiting here in Parliament for package two to arrive. What is particularly worrying, in the light of research data, is the fact that up to 80% of pharmacies have regular difficulties with access to medicines, and this simply illustrates the importance of the problem. Now the government should be able to do better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u30	Madam President! Yes, there is a lively debate about pharmacies, and there are some considerable demands for change from time to time, such as Mr Vartia’s passionate speech. But I don't think that now that there's a big revolution going on in the middle of this mess, we should break what works well. Quite often, however, it has been said that our pharmacy is the most functional part of our healthcare system: accessibility, customer satisfaction is good. Of course, there is a lot of development needs and there are some of them in this proposal, but I do not think there is any comparison between pharmacy activities and Lidl's commercial activities. This is a completely different issue. But in the future, it is certainly good to think about this development of pharmacy activities, the connection to social life. Indeed, as Mrs Wallinheimo said, we are happy to hear the Minister's views on how this Pharmacy Two package now applies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u31	Mr President! Indeed, the legislation on pharmacies is really old, rigid, out of date, and it is really good that now Minister Mattila and the current government have taken this up. We are finally bringing these legislative proposals here to the House. In 2015, a large report from the pharmaceutical development team was published, its legislative proposals have been awaited, the Ruskoaho group is conducting a study. So I can say to the Social Democrats that there is a lot of work to be done, a lot of new objectives to be achieved, but what is essential now is that this legislation, which has passed its time, be reformed. Pharmacists — they have not been able to develop their activities — and, above all, Finns who need pharmacy services have suffered because of the bad law. So it is excellent now that we get more pharmacies so that pharmacies can compete for the quality of the service. We see pharmacies as part of health care. Greens, at least some of them, would like to make the sick run after cheaper drugs. It is good to remember that pharmacists themselves do not decide the price of medicines. As long as society supports the medicine with medical compensation, it is important that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u32	Madam President! I think it is important that, contrary to what Mr Vartia has said, pharmacies are primarily guided by health care objectives rather than by economic policy objectives. I would remind you that Finland has an internationally respected, well-fulfilled pharmacy system with excellent access to medicines and pharmaceutical safety. In this context, I would like to say that in many ways I welcome this draft law. As far as Mr Vartia's speech is concerned, I believe that it is an important value issue whether domestic private entrepreneurship or multinational pharmaceuticals are supported in Finland, so that tax revenue will then flow abroad. In this pharmacy 2 package, I would like to warn against the example of Sweden: when paracetamol, a standard pain and fever medicine, was released, paracetamol poisoning increased by 40% in Sweden. They returned them to the pharmacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u33	Mr President! Even when we did this work together with the government groups, we took the paracetamols out of it so that they were not part of the self - care medicines. I think that's a good line in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u34	Mr President! I am also on the line that a little conservativeness in these matters is good, because it is a matter of such importance, of Finnish pharmaceutical safety. There are many good details in this government proposal that I remember myself reflecting on during the reign when these proposals were being turned on. This is the idea of correcting a little bit at a time the flaws in our pharmacy system, admittedly. In my opinion, it is important to keep this under control, that it does not end up like the taxi reform, that everyone should be knocked down at once and that no one should ask whether the reform is going to be of any use, but that everyone should be terrified of the disadvantages and how they should be treated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u35	Mr President! It is true that medicines are not just any consumer commodity and cannot be compared to rye bread. To that end, we have Fimea, which lays down strict criteria for the conditions to be met in order to be allowed to set up a pharmacy. According to my motion, only those who meet these criteria will be authorised. In other words, there would be no change: when there is a pharmacy there are the same criteria. But tell me what the harm will be if someone who meets the criteria is allowed to set up a pharmacy. The second question relating to the ownership of the pharmacists: this is not yet over. This is the only area where there's a limit to who gets to own it. But it does not guarantee responsibility, it is essential that there should be a responsible body and that it should still be a pharmacist. The talk that we want to favour domestic countries: How does the tax euro paid by pharmacies differ, for example, from the tax euro paid by the hardware store? Why do we accept a German hardware store in Finland but not a German pharmacy? How do these tax-euros differ? In addition, this debate:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u36	Mr President! Skills and quality must be safeguarded in each activity. In my opinion, we must continue to insist that the pharmacy business meets certain criteria: there are sufficient pharmacists, pharmaceutical skills, which then provide information and medical education and so on. On the other hand, it is an excellent thing in the government's proposal that it is now easier to set up a pharmacy where customers need it, for example in social welfare and health care units, because there are patients who just need a medicine for a short while and quickly and do not need a taxi to drive around the city. This is a big step forward, isn't it? But I must thank Mr Vartia for his excellent speech. That is what a Member of Parliament should do, there are clear options. So I ask Mr Vartia when you said that ownership should be limited if it is chained up: what percentage do you think one of the owners should have?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u37	Mr President! I believe that the competition authorities are good at defining it, but if I were to suggest something, then at most a quarter, perhaps a fifth of the market. What is essential is that there is genuine competition, where no player is so big that he can distort the position of competition. But at the same time, if we look at the current situation, which defines only one licence for the area: even if the fixed price of medicines is converted into a roof price, the pharmacist does not have any incentive to lower the price from there if it is the only provider in the region. And once again when we talk about the sick running after cheaper drugs, is it a better option to force the sick to pay extra for their drugs? In the future, however, the delivery of medicines will change with the online trade: continuous deliveries can be made directly to the home door.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u38	Mr President! As has been said here, this government proposal is a necessary step forward in old legislation at the moment. But, for example, the former CEO of Kela has well argued about this price development of medicines. Liberalisation would be the best remedy for this, and there would be no need for such vague compromises. These criteria must, of course, be met. For example, Sweden or other Nordic countries: there has been a good service similar to that of other market economies, and it will certainly be achieved in Finland. So this Vartia argument was, in my opinion, necessary and opening up the debate. As a supporter of the market economy, I am also in favour of this type of review in pharmacy legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u40	There are three more replies, and then I will give the Minister a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u41	Mr President! I would also like to emphasise the safety and availability of medicines and related issues in the pharmaceutical sector. Currently, the advice provided by pharmacies and the service associated with that activity are also very close to the medical information that patients and customers need in practice. How far, then, in different situations when market forces deal with these issues, will this side develop? Currently, Finland has a well-functioning pharmacy system and the availability of medicines across the country has been secured. We also grant new pharmacy licenses, albeit relatively few, but now, for example, this autumn in the Hospital District of North Savo. Within KYS, a pharmacy opens up to the public, and I think there was even a fourteenth pharmacy in that area. But I am more concerned about how services in smaller municipalities and remote areas can be secured. It's just that you usually want to be in these things, you know?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u42	Mr President! When you ask the Finns, I think the pharmacy is the service that will probably get the best grade. But the fact is that pharmacy law is really complicated, and that is the price formation alone. We know that in the present system the pharmacist cannot influence the price of the medicine himself. And it is important that we consider how we can reasonably increase competition in the pharmacy establishment so that the benefits are the recipient of the service and the taxpayer. The big concern is that the availability of medicines has been weak. We have very narrow positions, and we are a small market in the world, so I would like to ask: what action has the Minister been thinking about or is going on in the Ministry so that we can ensure that we have at all the medicines that can then be distributed or passed on through pharmacies? I believe that this is an important issue. I would also like to ask the following question: When we are taking the lines of the pharmacy working group in moderation — I was there myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u43	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mr Vartia for his clear alternative. The truth is that the opposition is clean and ideological, and this government is narrow and lacking. That is why I would like to see other Greens here defending these ideas from Mr Vartia, and I am a little concerned that the other members of the group are not behind your line. It must always be pointed out that the Greens were also in the government last season, and nothing was done about this pharmacy industry, but we are doing so, so I think that the direction is the right one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u44	Madam President! Mr Wallinheimo, in his previous speech, stated that paracetamol, like other painkillers, has been excluded from this pharmacy 2 package, which is good, but I took this example because it is at all pharmacies that this advice is linked to the sale of medicines. If we consider, for example, the creams that are now perhaps being released for sale in shops, it is not necessarily clear to the public, to consumers what purpose cortisone cream is used for, for example, antibiotic creams, so I hope that the Minister will consider the need for this professional advice in the event of medicinal products being sold, even though it is a question of butter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u45	Now for the answer, Minister Mattila. Five minutes from the toilet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u46	Madam President! First of all, thank Mrs Räsänen for the floor. I fully agree with this advice when it comes to medical treatment. The medicine is not a consumer commodity in the grocery trade; it always involves advice and guidance and also responsibility. You can also ask whether it is a pharmacy monopoly or whether you can see the good 600 entrepreneurs there. Yes, today is an entrepreneur’s day — a good entrepreneur’s day for everyone! However, the income formation of pharmacies is transparent, and this also leads to the question that there are more than pharmacists working there, i.e. they are employable. Then there were many questions about the Pharmacy Two package. First of all, the timetable for this: it has largely already been prepared and very soon during the consultation, and at least it is the self-care medicines that are being examined, the distribution channels, the price of self-care medicines, the development of a pharmacy stone, the review of the appeal procedure. Mr Tuppurainen then raised a number of questions as to whether there has been an explanation and how much. During 2018, Fimea's analysis of the distribution channels for self-care medicines has been carried out, then the Pharmacy Federation and PTY have done a report on the development of the drug reimbursement system. In other words, all of these have been done during 2018, i.e. yes. it has been done. Well, then, this problem of availability, which has arisen, is of course a safety issue, but it is not a problem for pharmacies or pharmacists, but it has been a problem with medical assistance, and it must also be looked at very strongly in the future. Thank you for all the contributions. As far as I am concerned, Mr Vartia's policies are in line with those of the government. Of course, they are not included in this presentation as such, but the direction is the same, that is to say, the number of pharmacies will be increased with this, and it has already been seen that new pharmacies have been set up. And yes, I must say that in the general debate on health care, the Greens have been quite critical of international chains, as has now been seen in Sweden and Norway. The markets of Finland and Sweden and Norway cannot in themselves be compared in exactly the same way, but it is, of course, good that pharmacies in Norway and Sweden have been brought to the smallest locations. In Finland, the current situation is that there are pharmacies in small localities. And in particular, as Mr Sarkomaa raised a very important issue, the pharmacy is an extremely trusted, extremely popular service in Finland. It is a low-threshold player, which citizens are perhaps most satisfied with in the field of health care. Then the University Pharmacy also came up. Its special status is currently justified by its specific tasks, namely training or the manufacture of certain medicines, and it is already entitled to have secondary pharmacies. I was not exactly aware of what Mr Vartia meant by the fact that the status of university pharmacies still needs to be emphasised in some way, and whether it is fair to other pharmacies, but we can probably continue to discuss this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u47	Mr President! After all, it is not a question of wanting to pursue the University Pharmacy's cause at the expense of others; the rules of the game must be the same for everyone. But it has to do with the fact that when quantity regulation is abolished, other actors can set up chains that make things more cost-effective and generally better. I would also like to point out that the income formation of pharmacists is certainly not transparent, because all pharmacists are behind the names of the activities and their tax information is not visible. We do not know anything about the company accounts, because they do not meet the criteria for making them public, which also prevents the matter from being investigated, actually knowing how much extra medicines are currently being paid. Furthermore, when you say that this does not support entrepreneurship, you will not find people in the business field who believe that when you stop entering the sector, it will support Finnish entrepreneurship. And one more thing about paracetamol: Paracetamol poisonings also increased in Finland when paracetamol became more common, although it did not move to grocery stores, so that the issue is not that availability increased, but people became acquainted with the new medicine.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u48	I do not see any other response that has been asked for, so we will move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u49	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Mattila once again for finally bringing this legislation forward in the pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical sectors. Many reasons have certainly prevented it: there is not enough prioritising in previous governments, there has certainly been a social cohesion among the manufacturers. But what is excellent is that this legislation is now going to roll and we will have this first package and hopefully another, and the next government and Parliament will have to continue this work. As a member of the Pharmacy Group, I consider it very necessary for us to have more pharmacies and for pharmacies to compete with that quality of service, such as opening hours. What is also essential is that, in fact, a pharmacy can now be set up more clearly in connection with hospitals — there are criteria for this — and this will make it easier to get home. People get the drugs where they need them. These reforms have been expected for a very long time. Old people's medical services, drug dumps, that's a big problem. They cause a lot of additional health care costs for the well-being and living of elderly people. They're a big risk. The distribution of doses has been the answer to the fact that medical treatment is in place, and in that pharmacy working group we stated that the use of dose distribution will be increased by defining the criteria for remuneration and reimbursement. This was not yet the case in these speeches by the Minister. I hope that all this will be helped and promoted in the pharmaceutical sector: there are lists of medicines in place, and indeed those who use a lot of medicines, especially older people, have dose distribution and are regularly evaluated for medical treatment. I think it is excellent that the evaluation of medical treatment is now included in the training and that in the future all pharmacists will be trained in such a way that pharmacies will also assess the correct medical treatment. That's not part of the pharmacy service. In this way we will increase health, well-being and reduce pharmaceutical costs. But thank you very much, Minister Mattila. It is up-to-date that the performances are now in the Parliament. Of course, this is still inadequate, but when you promised more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u50	Mr President! This government proposal concerns the implementation of the reforms agreed by the Government Party Pharmacy Group in the spring of last year. I was a member of the working group at the time, and it is good that at least some of the things agreed at the time are now being taken through. Of course, it would be desirable for the rest of the agreed issues to be completed as soon as possible, and that is what Mr Mattila promised, so that is a good thing. The ultimate purpose of the proposal in the referral debate is to increase the number of pharmacies and to facilitate their establishment in the context of the social welfare and health care services. In practice, the aim is to change the criteria for setting up pharmacies in a more rational way. In the future, Fimea, managed by pharmacy licences, could use more of his own discretion when new pharmacies are set up, and good this way. Such situations could include, for example, those where pharmacy activities are highly concentrated on a regional level, in the hands of only one or a few pharmacies. At the same time, the current basic criteria for pharmacy permits, which not only guarantee access to medicines, but also guarantee adequate services, will remain valid. Mr President! So it is a small step in the right direction, but there would have been bolder alternatives. In the pharmacy working group, for example, we set out far more ambitious targets for pharmaceutical permits, but this compromise was now reached and respected. Since then, a much more radical reform of the pharmacy sector has been proposed by former Kela Director General and Minister Liisa Hyssälä in her own pharmacy report. It would be worth serious consideration in the next parliamentary term if the measures now taken are not sufficient from the consumer's point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u51	Mr President! In this proposal, the law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law and the Fimea Pharmaceutical Safety and Development Centre is made a virtue of necessity. This is a very small step forward and, as the Minister said earlier in the debate, the sector has been the subject of a strong debate, but no major line of action can be taken by this government for one reason or another. And so we are dealing here with a proposal which essentially makes the need for virtue and does not solve major problems in the pharmacy industry, which are related to the availability of medicines, are linked to the principles of fair competition and, above all, to how the consumer is better served in various parts of Finland. What should have been done is a thorough, comprehensive study of the needs of the pharmacy sector. You, Minister, mentioned a great many different explanations here, but none of them sees this as a whole, and this is something that will obviously remain with the forthcoming government and the next government programme negotiations — unless this pharmacy package, the second that we are waiting for, resolves this issue. It is clear that the pharmacy sector and the pharmaceutical sector are special. It should be handled with care and care. Medical care is one of the key pillars of our health care and is central to citizens' legal security and health. But reforms are needed, and, as many colleagues have said here, the current legislation, even after this proposal, is still out of date and does not meet today's needs. However, in my speech, Mr President, I would like to focus on recent research and on the problems of access to medicines across Finland. A few weeks ago, a doctoral dissertation, a doctoral dissertation of pharmacist Kati Sarnola, was examined at the University of Eastern Finland, which showed that as many as 80% of pharmacies had problems with the availability of medicines daily or practically almost daily. These problems of availability occurred in very common, commonly used groups of medicines, such as medicines that affect the nervous system and medicines used to treat cardiovascular diseases. According to the study, one third of these disruptions caused problems, some larger, others smaller, but in any case problems, discontent and so on. It is also significant that, under Finnish conditions, these problems of availability concern people, of course, but not only these medicinal products for human use but also those for the use and treatment of farmed animals and pet animals. In Finland, pharmaceutical distribution is also carried out in pharmacies for animals. It is therefore also an important issue concerning the conditions of our country's business. I'll take an example. One case. It has been known to me that, for example, the serum needed to treat a poisonous snake, viper, poison, bite in our nature has not been available in Northern Finland since the beginning of July. Of course, this is a serious problem because cynic bites can even be fatal if untreated. And it is clear that, in the sense of common sense, such a common medicine should be available. In this case of viper, the problem is once again an astronomical price when it comes to such a normal thing. President! Let us return to these problems of access to medicines. They are, of course, due to factors in our pharmaceutical markets, which are quite difficult to simply influence. Our pharmaceutical markets are small in Finland and therefore there is insufficient competition in the pharmaceutical sector and there are also different seasonal variations in products. But if there is will, then there are ways: there are measures to make things easier. I now appeal to you, Minister, that with this bill you not only take certain things forward but also to address how the flow of information from pharmaceutical companies and pharmaceutical wholesalers to pharmacies will be improved. Preparation and crisis communication plans should also be required. This type of problem of access in a welfare society, such a prosperous society as Finland, cannot be tolerated. We have to do something about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u52	Mr President! Mr Tuppurainen drew attention to an important issue, namely the problem of access to medicines, but I would like Mr Tuppurainen to analyse the importance of the problem of availability for pharmacies, the importance of logistics, the logistics and related automation systems of medicines, they are now starting to play, and what role has been played by the legislation and the Finnish Government — that these international and pharmaceutical companies’ problems do not go to any national operator from pharmacies and from the country's government. That's completely different. And of course, if we want to have security storage by law or something else to go so far as to always find everything, then someone will always pay for it in the end. But as far as this actual debate is concerned, so I think this has been a very refreshing and good discussion, because now here in my opinion there is a danger that go awry with this kind of professional medical advice and freedom of business. They're two different things. In my opinion, Mr Vartia has, in his own way, brought up the options, with clear logic and analytics, but I would say that it is a good basis, but it is not worth going into a purely market economy here either, because neither human health nor medicinal products should be made a commodity that creates needs and otherwise, there must always be some sort of control.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u53	Mr President! I have listened to this debate and to Mr Vartia's good arguments. However, I am concerned about whether there will be any pharmacies in small municipalities in the future if this pharmacy system and this regulated pharmacy coverage changes. There have been praises here for existing pharmacies that they are really popular and reliable health centres among the citizens, where the pharmacy owner, the pharmacist, is responsible for the operation. I am concerned about whether this good service will maintain confidence in pharmacies if this pharmacy sector and pharmaceutical distribution are liberalised. I also share the concern about this problem of access to medicines. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u54	Mr President! On the basis of the debate here, you could imagine that we could have done much more. The question is, in fact, why the government did not make more ambitious decisions at this stage, because the debate in the Chamber would have made it possible to do so. What are the views of the other government parties, possibly, on why the pharmacy market is not being further liberalised? Secondly, in relation to the market economy: there is no market economy without strict regulation. The market economy does not mean the Laissez faire society, where you can do anything when you win in the jungle the strongest and bravest of all. Market economy means strict rules of play, for example in the opening of the pharmacy market. The regulation can be tightened up, no matter how much, that is not the point. What is essential is that the same rules apply to everyone equally and, if the criteria are met, action should be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u55	Then there are no further requests for the floor to reply: Mr Mattila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u56	Madam President! Thank you for these comments. To Mrs Tuppuriinen, it has been a question of the problem of pharmaceuticals, not of pharmacies, and there has been a constant debate with pharmacies, but also with wholesalers. In the event of problems with the units, pharmacies have done a very good job so that these medicines have been available. Thanks to the pharmacies. But then these studies and the discussion of the halls and what each of us will think about what it means to liberalise the pharmaceutical market. As I told you there, there's been a lot of research. I'm sure each of us will pick up the good or bad examples. There was a rise in paracetamol, Mr Vartiainen raised this increase in the number of pharmacies. But is it the case that the market is chained, focused, and what does that mean in terms of access to medicines? Or any quality problems? They have also been raised. But all the same, the government has made these policies, and they have been based on them. At least I believe that the number of pharmacies will increase. We will have a better chance of implementing a rational drug programme, which, incidentally, is also one of the tools for making medicines more accessible and benefiting citizens more fully. But, sorry, time's up. We can go back to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u57	Mr President! I myself consider the debate to be of high quality, but I would like to see more consistent arguments justifying this, which is why, for example, a pharmacy licence could not be granted to a body meeting the criteria. I would also like an answer as to how the tax euro paid by the pharmacy differs from that paid by another company. And I'd like an answer as to why the hospital can be owned by anyone but not by the pharmacy. I assume that the hospital requires more than running a pharmacy, without disregarding the strict issues and criteria in the pharmacy. And I would also like an answer as to whether it is really the case that Finns are in a more equal position if medicines pay just as much to everyone, while, at the same time, it is understood that it means that in some medicines they pay too much, that they pay too much to consumers or Kela, and it goes right into the pockets of pharmacists. Is this really the way we foster justice and equality in Finland? I would like to see direct and clear answers to these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-05-ps-78.u58	Mr President! In general, it is good to clarify things by way of a practical example, and I myself have sometimes been surprised how rigid it is to obtain a pharmacy permit or a side pharmacy permit. Example of Iisalmi: We had two pharmacies in the center. One obtained a side - pharmacy license for a shopping center outside the city 3 km, and when the other pharmacy applied for a side - pharmacy license for an equally large shopping center on the other side of the city 3 km away, it did not. It did not fit my mind, why did Fimean have to deny it: if another pharmacist wanted to set up a side pharmacy there, whose future would it have put at risk, whose client’s disadvantage would it have been that those on the other side — and they were elderly — would have bought medicines while visiting the mall? This excessive regulation in its way and the blocking of freedom of business just leads to such endings, which there is no longer any justification for in today's world.
