ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u1	Partly for the sole, part of the second reading will be presented in order of 6. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 1/2018 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u2	Madam President! This is a flight agreement with Bahrain. Functioning air links are vital for a country like us, and this also plays an important role in the urban airport. A citizens' initiative on Malmi Airport is being discussed by the Parliament. At the moment, these planes that are going to Bahrain are using Helsinki Airport, but much of business travel is using Malmi,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u5	Mr President! It just occurred to me here that Mr Heinonen now chose such an angle of discussion with this air transport agreement with Bahrain and talked about this national connection and then about this situation at Malmi Airport, that I will now take the opportunity here and now to ask what is the government's current policy on this issue of Malmi Airport. We haven't come back to this since before the municipal elections. Here the SDP asked questions about the fact that, on the one hand, there was a little debate in the central forces, up to the Prime Minister, about the election promise that the field would be saved, and then we wondered whether the government had taken action to re-establish, for example, the state itself in that direction. And, of course, now that we have the arena ahead of us, I hope that I will have an answer to this question as to where we stand.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u6	Madam President! Representative Heinonen hoped that Malmi Airport could survive airport operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u7	I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the subject of this debate, which seems to be rising here, will be spared particularly when we go through the citizens' initiative, because we have a long list and at 1.30 p.m. we have to close the plenary session because of the large committee meeting, and we will not be able to deal with these if this debate expands very much. Let us continue the debate, but I hope that we will now focus on this theme, which is on the agenda here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u8	Madam President! It is gratifying that the agreement with Bahrain speaks more here in the big room than it has ever been in the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u9	Mr President! It's a long way from Bahrain to Malmi. In any case, business airports are needed, and I fully understand — we in the Committee on Transport have dealt with this issue and we have also made an effort to do so — that in the future we must secure the conditions for intelligent aviation somewhere else.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u12	Madam President! I respect the President's wish to continue this debate further, but I would like to say so much — when Mr Arhinmäki pointed out that I would not follow — that I have followed this with exceptional care and I know how this field could be maintained and secured in the future. And I disagree, for example, with the representative of the Left Alliance, that this is a matter for Helsinki. In my opinion, Malmi is the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u18	Mr President! I think that this flight agreement with Bahrain does not really apply to business flights. That business flights can come to both Malmi and elsewhere completely, whether this agreement is accepted or not. This ore, on the other hand, touches the question of whether or not the state needs the Malmi Airport. The City of Helsinki does not become an air operator, just as the City of Vantaa is not responsible for airport operations. So once again, when this has been discussed before, Mr Heinonen, the government should now at last decide whether or not this Malmi Airport is needed for the operations of the kingdom and whether the state is prepared to invest its activities there, such as taking responsibility for air traffic control. If that is not done, your speech here is pointless, as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u19	Madam President! Indeed, it is a question of approving and concluding an air transport agreement with Bahrain, but when Mr Heinonen raised the issue of Malmi Airport, it is certainly possible, but I would like to say for myself that it is already here in Parliament through the citizens' initiative. The Committee on Transport and Communications has dealt with this issue and has produced a report on it. There have been two proposals for the report, which are quite good for the future, and we will be able to discuss the issue of Malmi Airport in this Chamber quite adequately, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u20	Mr President! I don't think anyone thought that this much debate would have triggered this air transport agreement with Bahrain. It is therefore a question of the conditions under which, and how, in this case Finland and Bahrain can designate airlines to exercise the traffic rights conferred by the agreement. That is what this was all about, in fact, but now that we wanted to take this debate a little bit to the sidetrack, perhaps a little to the other route so to speak, perhaps it is appropriate to say that I would never have guessed that Malmi Airport is so important that it is also visible all the way to Bahrain. In that sense, it is quite true that these different agreements with different countries, so that we can increase air traffic and have more routes, are good and it is very good for such a country that we have comprehensive agreements with different countries. But perhaps these things should not always be confused with things that are not included in them, such as this issue at Malmi Airport. Perhaps I will say a few more words about this citizens' initiative: once, in the past, these formula decisions have actually been appealed to the Administrative Court and then to the Supreme Administrative Court, then, at present, they will probably be appealed to this Chamber in the form of these citizens' initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u22	Madam President! The next point is the conclusion of an air transport agreement with Cuba. I look forward to the opening of the debate by Mr Heinonen. But when this agreement with Bahrain started with a theme that touches on the future of Malmi Airport, which is important to us amateurs, I will also speak about it myself, understanding the concerns of us amateurs about the transition to Malmi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u25	Madam President! Now about Malmi, it must be said that the state has no interest in operating there and they have agreed with the City of Helsinki that it is suitable to plan as a residential area, and this solution has been confirmed by Helsinki in its own council and has been in court. In that sense, a representative of a hundred people will not intervene. And of the service activities that Malmi has had, there is a large number, at least those very state activities, transferred to Santahamina, part of Helsinki Airport, like a representative. Kari quite rightly said.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u28	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order of 7. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 2/2018 vp will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u29	Madam President! Mr Kari asked what angle Mr Heinonen would be taking part in this debate on the agreement with Cuba. But instead of Mr Heinonen, I am taking part, because in our division of labour, Cuba belongs to me and Bahrain belongs to Mr Heinonen. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u30	Mr President! I asked for the floor because, having noticed Mr Zyskowicz taking the floor, I thought he was going to oppose this agreement. I am relieved to say that, for once, I agree with Mr Zyskowicz and with this official part of him — that these air connections and any interaction between the various countries are useful and necessary — and also that there have been terrible crimes against humanity in communism and, in economic terms, it has proved to be a very unsuccessful system. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this basic line, which has been adopted by the committee, is the right one. It actually left this OSCE meeting in 75 C.E. when it was discovered that there was a need for communication between countries with very different ideas. After all, when people meet each other, thoughts go through, in the final analysis, democracy is the great winner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u31	Mr President! Indeed, this was dealt with in the Committee on Transport, and this is not just a matter of branding on top. This has a very important symbolic value and also a commercial value. After all, Cuba was long under the US embargo, and I myself have been to that country when Americans, for example, were not able to fly directly from the United States to Mexico or Canada, and I think that all this kind of world opening up with air traffic is exactly the best thing that Mr Heinäluoma talked about. When people can communicate, this is the only way we can open up such closed societies and specifically act in a friendly spirit. Perhaps this could also be the case with North Korea. However, in any case, transport plays a very important role in the overall cooperation between such societies and us, European societies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u32	Madam President! I myself have been honored to visit Cuba, and there at the airport I noticed that in addition to Finnair's shift, there were several airlines coming in on morning flights from the United States of America and the United States of America also operating air services to Cuba. At the same angle as the fellow Members of Parliament in the past, I myself would have said that tourism is also an important means of exporting democracy to developing countries and of creating such a wider international relationship with local citizens, and I hope that this too will progress. However, the development of air traffic is also strong and aircraft are being manufactured with increasing performance, and Finnair also operates with new long-distance aircraft. This cooperation with Cuba can also contribute to the creation of longer air links between Finland and, in this case, between Central America or even South America.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u33	Madam President! In his own speech, Mr Zyskowicz raised the question of people who have spent the best years of their youth admiring Cuba's activities. I myself have just spent the best years of my youth in Cuba, and it has been a pleasure to follow these great changes that have taken place in Cuba over the past few years. At one time it was not so easy to fly to Cuba from here in Finland or Europe, but now this is an important agreement. There are many things that have been said here, but it is actually a very important agreement. Finland has never had a bilateral agreement with Cuba in the past, which is also a great step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u34	Madam President! It is important that we strive to promote democracy, freedom of expression, human rights throughout the world, and Cuba is one of the countries where these problems continue to exist. We should not start by closing one eye, but always keeping all our eyes open. Mr Zyskowicz described the problems that exist in Cuba, but he forgot to mention one rather significant reason why these economic problems exist in Cuba. It is a embargo that the neighbouring United States has been holding around Cuba since the Cubans evicted American gangsters, villains, from the island. The UN has repeatedly expressed its views on the embargo at the General Assembly. This has really been a problem because it has affected access to medicines, food, trade, and these have made it difficult for Cuba to open up. It is important that it is precisely this type of agreement, such as this agreement on air services, direct air connections and the fact that more people are coming and more trade relations are coming into play. In Cuba, for example, literacy and doctors and such things are those with very good results. And if we look at Cuba, perhaps the most serious human rights violations are not actually related to the Cuban state, but to the Guantanamo prison camp on the island of Cuba, which, despite promises, has still not been closed — in fact, it seems that it is more thought of bringing more prisoners there. Yes, Guantanamo Prison Camp is questionable even from the point of view of international law, and that should be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u35	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 3/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-03-09-ps-20.u36	Mr President! As the committee also points out in its report, the amendments proposed in this proposal relate mainly to the regulations of the European Union and the updating of the related references, the introduction of prior notification in salmon fishing and the obligation of the Authority to notify the operator concerned without delay of the suspected infringement. Due to the need for surveillance, it is now proposed to introduce a prior notification procedure for salmon fisheries prior to the arrival of the vessel at the port or other landing point. This is a new obligation for commercial operators fishing for salmon and, according to the proposal, it is designed to be as simple and reliable as possible. Mr President! This objective of simplicity and simplicity is therefore very important. And the technical implementation of the prior notification procedure must be invested in making the application of the procedure easy to use, reliable, compatible with the existing equipment of fishermen. So, Mr President, the introduction of a new system is very much to be welcomed, but, as has also been emphasised in the committee, I too would like to stress once again that every possible means must be taken to avoid the creation of new and unnecessary bureaucracy in this area.
