ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u2	We will spend about half an hour on this first theme, i.e. social and health care reform, and then there are a lot of other themes here. The first question for Question Time is put by the representative of the Socialist Group in Parliament, Mrs Rinne. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u3	Mr President! For the past three years, Finns have been amazed at the social confusion of Sipilä's government. It has not been the citizens, experts or the media, or even the foreign forces, who have been responsible for this confusion. The culprit lies in his own mirror and in the government's political cow trade, which runs counter to the original aims of the social welfare reform and in part contrary to the Constitution. The majority of Finns do not support the Sipilä Government's social welfare model. Last week we discussed an EU-notification which the government refuses to do despite the positions of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Constitutional Committee. In front of Parliament, Prime Minister Sipilä said this: ‘We have also been in contact with the Commission at the level of civil servants and the Commission has been told at the level of civil servants that they are not taking the matter into The Helsingin Sanomat revealed yesterday, referring to EU sources, that Prime Minister Sipilä's claim cannot be true. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: were you telling the truth last week?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u4	Mr President! The further the season goes, the harder rhetoric seems to get in this room. Firstly, I referred to these informal discussions that we officials have had with the Commission officials about this notification, and an unambiguous answer has come from there, a wish that we should not submit an application. For example, Timonen and Hetemäki have been in contact with the highest level of civil servants in the state and, as the committee has been answered, this has been a coherent and unambiguous response. In other words, the Commission’s Directorate-General for Competition is not responsible for assessing the social and health systems of the Member States, but for dealing with situations where there is a legitimate suspicion of prohibited State aid. Therefore, such a system or its legislation should not be notified, but should aim to ensure that the system itself is genuinely competitively neutral. That is what this is all about, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. There were indeed two other groups here on the same theme, but let us start with these supplementary questions, and Mrs Rinne will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u6	Mr President! The government's social welfare model is in trouble because of the government's cow trade. There are many risks, but the government has not yet wanted to correct or even resolve those risks. Let us go over these facts: the Supreme Administrative Court considers notification, i.e. ensuring legal certainty, necessary. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs requires legal certainty in this matter. Last week you, Prime Minister Sipilä, argued that the Commission would not agree to take up the social model. Your argument before Parliament does not seem to be true, and that is a very serious matter. Parliament and the Finnish people now deserve a clear and honest answer from you, Prime Minister Sipilä. Please answer these questions directly. Are you sure now that the Commission has recommended that Finland do not do so? Who has been in contact with the government and who has been in contact with the Commission? Now tell me the names on the Commission's side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u7	Madam President! I'm afraid that was an unheard answer at Congressman Rinte's. I told her that Martti Hetemäki and Pekka Timonen
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u12	Mr President! I think it would be good now to clarify this matter in a concrete and concrete way. I have just asked you which person from the Commission is the one who has given these answers. Then I also ask you when you said earlier that ‘we have also been in contact with the Commission at the level of officials and the Commission has been told at the level of officials that they are not taking this case into consideration,that no application has been lodged’: has the Commission The answer to these two questions, what are these names, and has it been said not to submit an application?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u13	Mr President! My assistant checked this out from Martti Hetemä this day, and he said that it was hoped that the Commission would not submit an application. So this is the guidance there, but unfortunately, Mr Rinne, the only one who can give the name of the opposing party in the confidential debate is, of course, the one who has had the debate. Unfortunately, I am unable to answer you this, but I can tell you that the highest officials Pekka Timonen and Martti Hetemäki have been involved on the Finnish side and my special assistant has also been in direct contact with the competition department.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u14	The parliamentary group of the Left Alliance also has a question on this issue. Congressman Andersson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u15	Mr President! The problem is that through this reform the government has allowed too much urgency to take precedence over careful drafting of legislation. Even now, in order to justify the positions of the government, the Prime Minister is referring to informal discussions with Commission officials, the content of which we in Parliament cannot know at all. It should be quite clear that when reform is being carried out, which may involve EU legal problems, that is to say, this prohibited state aid, then these risks and issues will also be investigated in advance as part of the careful drafting of legislation that is being done here at national level. However, the government has not done so, and there is no other reason for doing so than that this use of the notification procedure is not appropriate for this government to decide on an excessively tight timetable. Instead of giving this fairly to Parliament, misleading information is provided that the Commission:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u16	Mr President! That is not the case — the answer to the question. This EU-notification: I am sure that this is the image of people that we should not have in the EU the reform of social welfare and health care. This is not the case; we must have reasonable doubts that there is a ban on state aid in this regard. On any point on the part of the opposition, I have not heard what would be prohibited state aid — what would be the state aid which would distort competition. I have never heard such an argument in this debate. I wish such an answer would come, as you ask. What is the prohibited state aid, what is in this proposal? Of course, the points made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be taken into account and, in our reply, we will take a position on those questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u17	A supplementary question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u18	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, the reason why we have to consider the use of the notification procedure in Finland in general concerns the social model that the government is now introducing as new to this country and which requires a public operator to compete with private operators on the market. This model may then include prohibited state aid, for example in the form of bankruptcy protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u23	Mr President! It is a good thing that we now have one concrete point: this bankruptcy protection situation. This question raised by the Constitutional Committee is answered by the government in its reply. But I have not heard any other argument that state aid is prohibited here. Once the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has made this point, of course you will receive an answer in the answer given by the government. But we should first of all be sure that there is a doubt here about the ban on state aid, so that we can leave the EU to ask this question. And when that is not the case, we do not have to ask the EU about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u24	The Swedish Parliamentary Group also has a question in this regard. Congressman Henrikson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u25	Värderade Talman! Det är inte underligt att pineskor inte mera heger med i vad den ox EU-notifieringen handlar om. Men det handlar alltså om att regeringen själv i sin lagproposition har sagt att man egentligen är osäker på om är finns element som kan stå i strid med EU:s kokurrensrätt. Och då har till exempel högsta förvaltningsdomstolen, och också grundlagsutskottet constatterat att det allra klokaste för att råda bot på den raus rauttsliga osäkerheten är att skicka det rauh till notification.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u26	Mr President! There are, as it were, two different dimensions in this debate. Firstly, whether we are thinking nationally, as the government of the country or through parliamentary deliberations that this proposal would include prohibited state aid, i.e. that it should be notified at all. The government has carried out a thorough investigation into this, and the position of the government, and hence its position, is based on the assessment that there are no elements in this proposal that it needs to be notified. However, if this were to happen one day and the proposal were to be assessed as being of an economic nature, we have made every effort in the proposal to minimise it and to apply for the most competitive position possible. And the other thing is that if we ended up notifying this proposal, would it be possible for the EU to adopt this position, referring to the Prime Minister's assessment of what high officials have received in the background discussions on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u27	Mr President! Among other things, the explanatory statement of the government's proposal states that this will not be sent to the Commission for notification because there can be questions from the Commission for which there are no answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u28	Mr President! Not only are we going to read the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs very carefully here too, and I am aware that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has already, as it were, touched on this subject in previous consultations. In our response, we will justify and argue the government's line on this issue. From the point of view of the EU, it is emphasised, not only in this issue that is hot for us today, but in general, that the need for notification is always based on a national assessment — i.e. self-assessment of its own system and its potential risks to be contrary to EU state aid rules and in this respect obliged to notification. And quite rightly, as we say in our proposal, it would include situations that could not be assessed. This is precisely because, in a very many cases, it has been assumed that when the system is only on paper, as a plan, as a legal clause, its implementation plays such a big role in the future regions of the national system, so that it is only in this respect that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u29	Mr President! The Prime Minister said a moment ago that of course the Commission will accept the Finnish notification if it is sent. Even earlier, the message was that the Commission does not accept the Finnish notification. Which way is it? The Prime Minister may be able to clarify this. The question is that when there are now such informal corridor talks or discussions with officials, would it not be better to get black in white, formally and in writing, so that we can end this conversation. And if there's no problem, if there's no problem, then why can't you make sure?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u30	Madam President! I have already replied on several occasions that the Commission has been instructed in informal discussions that they do not want to take this on board, because we did not have the point that would be banned from state aid here either. Who said that? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u32	Mr President! If there were no problem, then surely two years would have been spared discussion. The question now is that when the government intends to open up the market in social and health care, companies will be put on the same footing and will have to wonder whether a competitive neutral situation will arise or whether prohibited aid will be created. In such situations, any Finnish or some company can complain about it, and then, so to speak, it will have to assess with EU legislation whether this is compatible with our legislation at the latest. Now, many experts in Parliament think that it might be worth applying for this building permit for the system immediately, so that it does not happen that when the house is completed it will be noticed that when the building permit was not there, it will have to be dismantled. Therefore, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has been given the challenging task of obtaining this certainty when the government's own proposal acknowledges that there is no certainty whether there is a building permit or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u33	Madam President! The Government is applying for a building permit from the Finnish Parliament for this project. We have to deal with it carefully here, in accordance with our rules, and then, in due course, in this Chamber, it will be the final decision. We must now count on ourselves to be able to grant this permission here, and Parliament's decision here is the one that applies. We will not find any prohibited aid that distorts competition that violates EU rules, so let us make that decision here in the Chamber. Let's do it together. Let's do it carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u34	Mr President! I myself am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and there was a lot of discussion about this. I would point out that on page 49 of the opinion of the committee it is stated that the obligation to notify also covers situations which are open to interpretation and that the committee has concluded that complete certainty cannot be achieved without notification. If the government has further arguments, why were they not already brought to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u37	Mr President! Mr Mere's questions: at your request, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was given further clarification on this very issue, which we are discussing here today. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u38	Mr President! I have been following this social reform for years, and it has been sad to see that reform has been delayed and the present system has collapsed and private companies have expanded their territory. Now we have a model with all the key elements. It's time to find a solution. This is what people say on the street and also in the provinces where they are ready. But when you follow the opposition's action here, it seems that we are constantly looking for different excuses to slow down, and in this case the EU is being invoked. After all, the central principle of the EU is that it manages agricultural policy, trade policy, foreign policy, but health and social policy are a matter for each country. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u40	Mr President! I do not know whether this is even necessary, but I will now mention in this debate what we are talking about when we talk at all about EU notification and prohibited state aid. We are therefore discussing the basis of the Finnish social and health care system and the equal status of private and public operators in its service production and the equality between them as service providers. In this context, we are now discussing whether this solution is in the national hands or whether there are elements that require an EU assessment. The position of the government has been, and is, that our system is such that it does not include prohibited state aid. And the whole other story is whether the EU is now in a situation where notification is even available. I am not aware of a situation where Sweden, for example, which has often been raised as a benchmark in this situation, has not provided its own model of freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u41	Madam President! The challenge of competition neutrality lies at the heart of this freedom of choice model, not only with regard to this notification. The freedom of choice of the Sote reform was once marketed in such a way as to enable the customer to choose between the services offered by its regional business, company or associations and organisations. I think I said in last spring's municipal election test that the fact that organisations come to that same line with companies and also with the regional business can be quite difficult, because many associations receive public support and are in a difficult situation from the point of view of competition neutrality. I would now like to ask the Minister: after you have set up this one-woman task force, which has issued its interim report and clearly stated in it that the associations must be able to distinguish the proportion of services on the market, as it were, and then the proportion of organisation activities, is now so that this obligation to enter into a partnership, which was avoided on the public side, is now being imposed on the associations and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u42	Mr President! This is a very wide-ranging question. I'm trying to narrow it down. First of all, Finnish social welfare organisations received more than EUR 340 million of public support last year through our Veikkaus gaming company system — which is also very unique in the EU context itself — and Finland has a system in which those funds cannot be used to provide services that we have obliged municipalities to provide as public services, that is, in the future the provinces. In other words, just as Mr Essayah says, it is true that organisations cannot carry out these publicly organised services with these so-called winning funds. In other words, when a producer is, for example, an organisation — which is perfectly suited to this freedom of choice as a service provider of a customer voucher — it is certainly the clearest way to distinguish that part from the service provider, from its organisational, public-interest activities, at least clearly enough in accounting terms, and many organisations have also come to the conclusion of a corporate solution. You don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u43	Mr President! This is a bigger picture of what is most important for the government in this reform. You are pushing for a broad market model in which these legal problems come into play, and that is more important to you, to take that market model forward than to ensure that the future system will certainly last. This puts at risk the future of Finnish social and health services, publicly produced social and health services, and creates a risk of large claims obligations for private companies. In other words, the fact that you force this market model forward means that the most important thing for you is that private health companies get a big market, no matter what the risks. That is what you are saying, because it would be possible to ensure that this proposal is legally sustainable by removing wide-ranging freedom of choice and by implementing the regional model. This can also be ensured by ensuring that low-income and pensioners receive good health care in the social welfare reform but reduce the risks by recognising that this is a service of general interest — but it limits profits to reasonable profit,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u44	Mr President! Because I respect you, Mr Niinistö, I do not care to be offended that you put words in my mouth and question my motives for acting on this reform. The purpose of this government is to provide Finland with a system in which equality and adequacy of services can be ensured and, Mr President, the sustainability of this system is measured by whether our common funds and the euro are sufficient to maintain its system. In view of these considerations, it is extremely important that we are finally able to reform this national base for 18 provinces so that services can improve, and freedom of choice is a way of involving those private operators who, in fact, in a rather uncontrolled way are already part of today's system. The task of the Constitutional Committee, of which Mr Niinistö, you are, is never to judge the current situation, but always to look at the future government proposal, but I dare ask the question: would this model pass the constitutional assessment of all fundamental rights or equality?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u45	Mr President! In the context of this clarification of notification, we also learned that you, Minister of Basic Service Saarikko, have approached Competition Commissioner Vestager. In your letter, the Minister asks for support for social reform, because reform is one of the most important issues for the government. You say this: ‘I can’t overemphasise the positive effects of the reform on the economy and growth of our country The expert consultation has since shown that the financing of the reform is entirely on a incline basis — we do not know whether this reform is a sign of plus or minus. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, about the government's table manners: does it not seem ill-considered to turn to the Competition Commissioner afterwards because you asked for support for political reform from the same authority that may have to assess this legally?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u46	Mr President! Is the reform a sign plus or minus? If you are referring to the economy, then the sign of reform is a plus. In any case, the cost will increase as the population ages. The only question now is how much of a plus we have to put and whether we will be able to reduce costs — which is one of the objectives of why this reform has taken place in due course. My letter was quite rightly quoted by the representative, Mr President. That is what I wrote, and I approached the Commission precisely because the government wanted to discuss this system. Since then it became apparent that this request was not to be received and that debate was not followed by the Commission, although the government was active and willing to do so, precisely to ensure this legal basis and this issue of notification, which has been referred to here since the informal debates.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u47	And the author of the original question of this theme, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u48	Thank you, Mr President. The Ministry's officials are having informal discussions with the Commission to see whether there is a need for notification or whether this is contrary to competition law. Minister Saarikko will send a letter to the Competition Commissioner asking for support for the reform to ensure that the Commission supports the reform. It is quite clear here, Prime Minister, that you also have uncertainty, even according to your suggestion as to whether this is compatible with competition law, in accordance with EU law. But I am now interested in the fact that you said today that, of course, the Commission will take this on board if such a request for notification is made. Then there is a verbatim quote: ‘We have also been in contact with the Commission at the official level and the Commission has been told at the official level that they are Now, Prime Minister, I ask you: which of these statements is true? Which statement is true, today or last week?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u49	Mr President! First of all, it is most important for us to introduce a social welfare reform in Finland that will be able to meet the needs of people in ten years' time, at least at the current level. We have approached the Commission in informal discussions, and this is a very typical debate, an active influence on the EU, and there have been questions about what is reasonable in this situation and what is not sensible in this regard. And, as I referred to these informal discussions several times during Question Time, the Commission is instructing us not to ask us to submit an application.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u50	Next question, the Finnish Parliament Group, Mr Immonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u51	Mr President! What would the European Union not do to make life difficult for ordinary citizens? This is something we have seen many times here in Finland, isn't it? [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u52	Mr President! Thank you for the question. First of all, thank you for the broad consensus in Parliament, which, as Finland, has enabled us to fight against this Arms Directive in itself, especially the reserve derogation, of which three or four years ago, when it was launched, there was no mention in that form. It also provides for this draft law, which is now in the final stage of the consultation on Åland, to be written in such a way that our entire wartime reserve also has the possibility of exercising in the reserve so that permits can be sought. Through the Chief Staff, I also support these so - called prohibited weapons, or long - range semi - automatic weapons. This is a revolutionary change in relation to what it looked like two or three years ago and, in fact, the draft legislation was also amended in the spring with the express will that a large reserve can be practiced. For the details of what has been highlighted in the consultation, we will now be making adjustments in the coming weeks. There must be clear rules here that do not prevent unnecessary practice and at the same time prevent weapons from falling into the wrong hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u53	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u54	Mr President! Unfortunately, this reply from the Minister did not convince us. True, we Finns will be particularly attentive to the future development of this situation. Among other things, this bill includes an absurdity in which a rifle with a box of more than 20 bet empty goes into the same category as cannons and rocket launchers. This is completely absurd, though. The offences committed with authorised weapons in Finland are extremely rare. It is therefore regrettable that law-abiding gun owners are being punished time and again and their activities are being hampered. We Finns do not accept such a line of discipline. Hunting, reserve activities and other weapons activities must be secured in Finland [The President : Question!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u55	Mr President! With regard to this reference to a long box of more than 20 cartridges, this directive is explicitly based on the fact that the box of more than 20 cartridges makes the weapon a class A weapon, and that is why it has to be treated as a banned class A weapon, but we are fortunate enough, for example, to have a reserve reserve derogation, we also have the possibility of granting derogations to the traditional Finnish SRA firearm and, under certain conditions, shooting sports in Europe may also be granted derogations. Now we are developing the practices on how to do this smoothly. At the same time, we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that, even in domestic firearms, we have also used weapons that have spread here to the wrong hands. It's not always about guns that spread abroad. In particular, it is in the interest of the shooting enthusiasts to prevent these incidents. As such, this is an important balance, and I believe that we will get through it in such a way that all the things that are relevant are:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u56	Mr President! The government has prepared a law on arms, which may well be called unpatriotic. There is so much bad preparation in the new law that I am therefore addressing only one of its countless absurdities, the reserve activity. The new law will make it almost impossible to start and engage in reservist shoot sports. In addition, it will close a large number of uninvested reservists, in violation of the Non-Discrimination Act, with the non-Discrimination Reservers. Finland’s defence is based on a large reserve of 900,000 men, from which in the early stages — and I stress: in the early stages — 280,000 men will be mobilised. Now, in the new law, the non-invested reservists would be placed in a weaker position than those placed. I would therefore like to ask the ministers concerned: how can this poorly prepared law in the Ministry of the Interior be corrected so that the defence-willing reservers can continue to contribute to the Finnish defence? This law will not make that possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u57	Mr President! The definition of ‘reserval exemptions’ has specifically broadened the definition of an investment in a period of war or already planned, meaning that there is a reserve that can be placed in armed service during the war. We cannot write in the law that we release 900,000 men from the list of arms prohibited by the directive. It will then fall before the EU Court of Justice. That is why we need the preparation that has been done so that the reserve derogation can actually be put into practice in Finland. I understand your concerns. As far as practical processes are concerned, we will examine the question of whether training for 24 months or 12 months is needed, whether training can also be demonstrated with a class B gun, or a short box gun. This is the kind of thing that comes in the feedback of the opinion, in all seriousness and through the excellent dialogue between the reservist organisations, we will now look through. However, it is quite unreasonable to argue that the examination carried out by the government in this good cooperation with the various ministers is a matter of treason.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u58	Madam President! When this avalanche of the Arms Directive from the European Union started, it was great to see how this Chamber, or the Finnish MPs from different parties, agreed that the reserve derogation should be achieved. And this reserve derogation was defended by the then Home Secretary Petteri Orpo and Defence Minister Jussi Niinistö — even at the EU tables to present the Finnish defence solution, and it was important that this reserve derogation was achieved. More than 95 per cent of those placed in Finland during the wartime are reservists. Self-motivated shooting training is necessary in this respect. If all of this were to be carried out by the Defence Forces as their own activities, the resources would simply not be enough. I would like to ask Minister of Defence Niinistö what the significance of reservist activity and, in particular, this voluntary shooting exercise in the voluntary defence of the country is for our defence system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u59	Mr President! Of course, in the Defence Forces’ refresher exercises, reserve personnel are trained in 18,000 years, and military personnel are trained in more than 20,000 a year, and this base is created there. But it is clear that the number of refresher exercises is only satisfactory, and it is good that the reservists have the opportunity to practice on their own through the Reservist Associations and the National Defence Training Association. This is an important asset, and besides, shooting sports are a great hobby.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u60	And a supplementary question, Mr. Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u61	Mr President! This is going to be a considerable amount of feedback, and it is actually a matter of tangible concern. Can you now, Minister, calm the situation by convincing this citizen's feedback that the so-called 'Finland supplement', the unnecessary 'Finland supplement', will not come on top of this directive?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u62	Mr President! Yes, it is our intention to make changes to this proposal on the basis of feedback on the opinion. They're going to be made. The purpose is to make the law as smooth as possible. And I believe — when I know the concerns of both the athletes and the reservists — that we will be able to organise this in such a way that the valuable interests can be maintained. There is good cooperation here, particularly with the Minister of Defence and his administration. After all, the law is laid down in Parliament and, of course, in the final analysis, it is the will of the Parliament, and, in this respect, Mr Savola referred, quite rightly, to a broad consensus. I got a little worried when I read the judgments of the representatives of the Helsingin Sanomat and Paatero's opinion paper, which did not agree that there was a need for an extensive armed training of the reserve on its own,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u63	Mr President! An extensive consultation on this issue is exceptionally necessary. I trust that the preparation of the ministry will now continue to ensure that the points raised in the consultation are taken into account in the drafting of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u66	Mr President! No, it's not. As such, this Arms Directive does not apply to all our arms legislation, for example, the regulation of small arms. This does not go hand in hand; differences will also remain outside the scope of the directive. On the other hand, according to our current data, Germany and Spain, for example, are at least countries where there will be a clear tightening in the field of shooting sports in this implementation. We must preserve our valuable national hobby traditions, especially certain types of shooting sport, but especially as regards the activities of reservers, and this will be done through the sensible application of what is now being done on the basis of the feedback from the opinion. We have to think about them in such a way that they will also last before the European Court of Justice. It is not worth collecting short-term points here, but rather looking at what is the current practice in five years' time. And I think it will be all right, as long as the majority of Parliament remains in this position and does not go in the other direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u67	There are still quite a few groups left with a question. Let us do so now that there is quite little television time left to take all the questions on the question-answer principle. — And this will be initiated by the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Olli-Son Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u68	Madam President! Mr Mykkänen, you have today published a report in which the Finnish Immigration Service itself answered the question as to whether it can be trusted to process its own asylum applications. The internal audit was justified at a speed and a rapid study was carried out. The Agency’s unsurprising conclusion is that there are no systematic shortcomings in its functioning. The report presents small, important in itself, but does not address at all the major problems caused by the government’s intensification pressures since 2015 for the whole asylum procedure across the board. The report fails to answer the most important questions and I therefore ask you, Mr Mykkänen. What happens now to people who have suffered from serious shortcomings in the asylum procedure? And how to ensure that Finland does not send anyone to risk their lives? How do we correct the mistakes that have been made?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u69	Mr President! First: In any case, a large majority of those who have received a negative decision have appealed to the courts and/or submitted a re-application. It is therefore important that the first re-application is dealt with in detail, as according to Finnish law is actually done more thoroughly than in Sweden, for example. As far as this report is concerned — and thank you also for being here at our good seminar — this was indeed the first step in which I quickly wanted to receive some 30 proposals for improvements from clear bottlenecks. Migri herself analysed that there have been shortcomings in interpreting, for example, and that there have been shortcomings in the preparation of an interview, in the preparation of fragile groups, in the preparation of vulnerable individuals, and that are now being improved, as you heard in the morning. At the next stage, it is also necessary, together with the UNHCR and the Non-Discrimination Commissioner, for us to order a so-called external evaluation, which can then be seen in greater detail. But it is inevitably a long-term matter, and I am sure that the conclusions will come next year in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u70	The next item is the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u71	Mr President! At the beginning of this oral Question Time, a great deal was said again about social and even about the sale of cows. I thought I'd ask not about cow shops, but about cows and agriculture. In other words, Finland has faced an unprecedented period of heat and drought in early summer. Scientists estimate that such weather phenomena may become more common in the future. Another year of roofing is ahead, and the situation on farms is now extremely stressful. The only source of income for many people is at risk. There is a forest fire risk in almost the whole country. The security of supply in our country and the continuity of domestic food production are at stake. In addition to traditional farming, new ways of producing food should be developed, and they should be quickly used on a large scale. I would ask the minister concerned: what is the government going to do to alleviate the plight of farmers, both in the current situation and in the longer term?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u72	Madam President! It is true that last two years farmers have faced extremely exceptional and severe weather conditions. Last year, as we well remember, there was too much water, and now there is too little water. Both lead to the same result: difficulties, increased costs, crop losses, quality losses and so on. What has the government done in the short term? Last week we have submitted an application to the Commission to allow us to use all possible arable areas that can be harvested for feed, in exceptional circumstances, now for feed production. These include ecological areas for which the obligation to harvest or irreparability remains until August. Well, we all know that since then quality has been lost. So this is done. Similarly, we put the application in such a way that we would be able to pay a little more in advance than is the case with that Commission proposal. In addition, we, together with the Ministry of Finance, have gone through and are preparing for the tax deduction of crop damage insurance,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u73	A question from the Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party is asked by representative Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u74	Mr President! According to a report published last week by the Natural Resources Agency, the wolf population in Finland has clearly become stronger. 2018, There were a total of 20 wolf herds in Finland in March of this year, while the corresponding figure was 14 months earlier. Particularly worrying and problematic is the strong regional concentration of the wolf population in Western and South-West Finland, which currently accounts for about 70% of all wolves in the country. The wolf is a source of concern for the children's school road all the time. The wolf also preys on sheep and other domestic animals and dogs and other pets. I ask you, Minister Leppä: what urgent measures does the government intend to take to curb the growth of the wolf population in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u75	Mr President! Wolves have increased, the stock is growing, and it should also be noted that in this estimate of the Natural Resources Centre the wolf population is now at its lowest in the year. This estimate comes on top of all that pup yield, every pup born, and when the herd has increased and the pair of wolves has increased, [Laughter] Plus the fact that the police have very recent uniform instructions throughout the country on how to deal with these harassing wolves. I would like to emphasise once again that wolves do not belong in yards, they are not supposed to pose a risk to people and livestock production, and if so, there is a mechanism to remove them. The wolf belongs to the Finnish nature, but it belongs specifically to the nature and forests, not to the yards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u76	A question from the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party is asked by Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u77	Madam President! Finland’s economy is on a good growth path. Consumer and investor confidence has increased. There is also a momentum in the housing market. New dwellings will be built faster than once in the 21st century. On the other hand, the market is differentiated. Prices are rising in growth centres, while development in sparsely populated areas is reversed. The need for family housing is reduced, but then, on the other hand, the demand for small dwellings and studios has increased. Even over-demand is local. One trendy change is that urbanisation continues. I would ask Mr Tiilikainen: how do you describe the situation in the housing market at the moment, precisely from the point of view of consumers? And further: how do you describe the reform of the Land Use and Building Act and its effects from the perspective of the needs of growing urban areas and the rest of Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u79	Mr President! The situation in the housing market is, I would say, quite alive and lively, and so is the situation in the construction sector. As the questioner pointed out, housing is currently being built at a record pace, and that is precisely the type of housing that is most in demand on the market, which is very small. The situation you describe is also true of the differentiation of markets between different parts of the country. In fact, in terms of the Land Use and Construction Act and urban planning, it is necessary to ensure equipment for land-use planners in order to be able to plan quickly enough. This is the case with the reform of the Land Use and Construction Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u80	And a blue parliamentary group. Representative Louchean, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u81	Mr President! Work careers can be extended by improving working conditions and well-being at work. Well-being at work is increased by a good working community atmosphere. At the weekend in the Hollola-Lahti district, 70 will be raced. Jukola's message and 41. The message of the Venlos, international communications navigation contests. Jukola is the largest adult sport event in Finland. More than 60 per cent of Jukola’s participants are company, family and friend teams. In several companies Hell has been seen as part of the Artillery Program. A successful workday program should make it possible to be together and do it, to create a spirit of us. Minister, how do you see such leisure activities as part of the promotion of working ability and well-being at work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u82	Madam President! Work and well-being belong together, they are an extremely important combination, they belong to everyone. I am particularly pleased that the representative raised the message of Jukola, which will be run in Hollola for the summer nights to come — success for all the contestants! The way in which companies are committed to promoting well-being at work, for example by encouraging their employees to perform sports, such as by going to Jukola's message, is variable, but it is nevertheless valuable and should continue to be encouraged by companies. And this works in two ways: by increasing well-being at work, but at the same time employees also commit themselves to health promotion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u83	Since I know that Mrs Huovinen is the last day, she will have one question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u85	Mr President! First of all, on my own behalf and on behalf of the entire government — I believe I am speaking on behalf of the whole Parliament — thank Mrs Huovinen for this 19-year career here. You've been a very good, constructive colleague all that time. As far as your question is concerned, I also have concerns about the continuity of this ability to decide together. We must also be proud of this party system. The parties are the channel through which democracy can be put into practice. I think that we should also be proud to defend party support, for example, precisely because it provides a legal, good channel for democracy in practice. I wish you every success, effort, strength in your new duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u86	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u87	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank colleagues for their broad support for this initiative on the ban on the marketing of speed levers. Once the initiative has been signed by 119 Members of Parliament from all political groups, I can say that Parliament has a strong will to intervene in the marketing of fast-tracks. Mr President! It also tells us that the concerns of citizens who have been driven into a spiral of speed have been very widely communicated to parliamentarians. Over-indebtedness is a growing problem in society. Despite the good economic and employment situation, the number of citizens who have received and have been subject to default is increasing. At the end of 2017, the default marking was 375,000 for Finns. In many ways, life is difficult for people who have lost credit. For example, it is difficult to obtain a rental dwelling if you are unable to pay the rental security. The important thing is to help people get on the road to over-indebtedness. The objective of the marketing ban is precisely to prevent the acquisition of quick-leases as an incentive purchase. Even taking a single quick payment may lead to a spiral of old debts being paid with a new quick payment and eventually drift into insolvency when interest rates are pushed on. This story is familiar to tens of thousands of Finns. Young people who do not yet have sufficient experience in managing their own finances are particularly vulnerable to debt spirals. If you are in debt at a young age, the risk of social exclusion is very high. Over-indebtedness is often excluded from the labour market or as an employee of the informal economy, because enforcement of old debts is a strong tax on normal wage income. In order to combat this, a separate law was already adopted which allows the one year unemployed person to find a six-month break in debt repayment. The debt caused by quick-leases also applies to those with gambling problems, among whom it is the quick-leases and money-laundering that is perceived as the most significant problem of gambling. Often, the same website attracts both gambling games and offers instant levers. This equation is an overwhelming temptation for many, which later becomes expensive. The advertising of instant vips was banned in the Netherlands in 2017, so it is a good example for us. There has also been a response at company level: Google has banned the advertising of quick-leases on its own website in the United States. It is a global problem that requires new rules of the game to deal with. It is important that Finland is one of the first to give examples and to ban the advertising of speed levers. A ban on advertising is possible, as in the Netherlands, in such a way that the Financial Supervisory Authority determines the high-risk and unsecured loans, i.e. quick-leases, the advertising of which is prohibited. The list may be updated as necessary. Already in Finland, companies offering quick-leases have to register with the Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland, which makes controls much easier. Mr President! A ban on the marketing of quick-leases is one way of curbing over-indebtedness due to consumer credit, but not the only one. We already have a ceiling on interest rates for short-term payments of less than EUR 2000, and the Ministry of Justice is looking into extending this ceiling to short-term payments of more than EUR 2000. This would be very important because the current trend is to combine these high-speed levers from a wide range of sources and there are companies that provide services where they reorganise and reorganise loans from these borrowers, and the result is that payments and interest rates are higher than before. So we need to get this thing under control. This bill concerns the amendment of Chapter 7 of the Consumer Protection Act, to which it is proposed to add Article 8a ‘A ban on the marketing of certain high-risk consumercredits:the type of unsecured consumer credit that actual annual interest rates exceed this figure17a,with a reference rate of 50 %,is not available on the market. “ So this is a show. I would like to emphasise that this 50 now comes from the interest rate cap which is currently set at a rate of less than EUR 2000. If this ceiling is extended and if this ceiling is reduced — which I also hope it will — then the interest rate on this marketing ban must also be reduced. It is extremely important that we put this marketing ban into practice, and I believe that there is a good chance. Parliament has spoken on this issue and this should be taken into account in the preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u88	Madam President! Mr Satonen has collected names on the right paper, and it is a very good thing that such a bill, which obviously and undoubtedly needs to be able to become meat in this parliamentary term, will not remain without us being able to deal with it and the government will not be able to take it into its own Rules of Procedure and bring it to Parliament as a proposal so that we can quickly regulate it here. Especially difficult has been this aggressive marketing of quick levers, intruding on people’s privacy, and that is when someone has been difficult. However, we have been able to ensure that speed levers are no longer granted for certain time periods, and that progress has been made here. It is slow, but in any case we must take this problem of speed levers with particular vigour. One part of it is the marketing, because always knowing that you can quickly grasp a bait, direct people’s activities and exploit their opportunities. Mr Satonen also raised this ceiling of EUR 2000. This has also been the subject of a bill for this parliamentary term, so that more than 100 names from each parliamentary group were already involved in this project, so that we could provide for the lenders to issue a so-called limit loan of EUR 2000, even if it needed a loan of only EUR 300 from the limit of EUR 2000 to the real economic situation, the purchase of a washing machine or winter tyres, and when it is EUR 2000 this 50% interest rate cap will no longer work. That is why it is very important that last year the Consumers' Union started on the basis that it should also be the same 50 % interest rate ceiling for lending over EUR 2000. That would be a very welcome reform, of course, together with a positive credit register, which should also be welcomed in the wind here in Parliament. Even small-scale lenders believe that we should have the opportunity for the lender to bear the risk. In many cases, we have an automatic connection between quick-lease companies and recovery companies, where these inheritances and the costs involved are being chained and continued, and even if the court becomes a decision that the person is broke, the possibility of re-recovery is today. Of course, we should not forget that Mr Satose's excellent bill did not include traditional creditors and banks in this marketing. In fact, however, it must be recognised that if a person who wants a quick loan to his own financial situation takes access to a credit card and pays for the purchase of EUR 300, which is necessary, the cost is considerably higher than 50%, i.e. all delivery charges and others make the credit card much heavier for small loans than this 50% interest rate cap is at present. But I do not criticise the fact that banks are not allowed to continue to advertise in this way, but one should be able to see where it is discussed when it is a matter of speed. At the end of the day, Mr President, I must say that we need social credit in Finland. It is the path we need in this country. It is the only durable instrument for the fact that, indeed, those people who are in financial distress with unemployment or single parenthood and who need some kind of help for that moment must be able to do so. As far as this social credit is concerned, these people are wearing a credit default marking. That is why, hopefully, next week, we will also be able to intervene in this matter, that credit default labels will hang there for several years even after the debt has been paid out, and these things could be taken forward together so that, in such a case, when that social credit has been paid out, the credit default marking will also be removed within a month. But, Madam President, I am particularly pleased that Mr Satonen has taken over this issue, and I hope that Parliament will make good and valuable progress on this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u89	Mr President! To put it bluntly, this is a worthy initiative which I myself have also signed. The previous speakers quite exhaustively already explained why this initiative is necessary. Personally, I see this as the correction of excesses. The interest rates we are talking about, 50 % and the like, are already excessive in themselves, and the loss of credit information is a serious matter and a tragedy for the individual. As far as I am concerned, such borrowing could be banned at all, but the marketing ban on this initiative is a good start, and I think that the next step could also be to moderate the succession mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u90	Madam President! The problems of the quick levers have been very widely identified here in Parliament and the issue has been discussed several times in recent years. Progress has also been made in reducing the speed levers. The long list of signatories to this bill from the right to the left of Parliament shows that much remains to be done in this situation. Quick-up advertising is on the rise, which in itself shows that the levers have demand and demand potential. It is therefore appropriate to address the advertising of levers where the interest rate can be clearly considered to be totally disproportionate. At its worst, quick liquor is a modern - day loan shark that exploits people in a difficult situation. Quick Vip is very rarely a solution to any problem. On the other hand, it very often leads to a worsening of the problems and to the emergence or deepening of the spirals of problems. This initiative is an important step in the right direction. At the same time, consideration should be given to whether even more could be done about the problem of quick levers. During this debate, I read, among other things, the material of the Consumer Union in relation to instant credit. They also have their own proposals for developing Finnish legislation, and they go further than this initiative, among other things. We need to think about what we can really do even more to improve these things. Many households are increasingly in debt to a wide range of entities, which further weighs on the ability of households to pay. Debt amounts often become significant before the default mark breaks off further debt. All in all, Mr President, Mr Satose's bill is very much to be welcomed and I hope that it will be dealt with as quickly as possible here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u91	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mr Sato for this important, almost 120-name bill. It is true, as the explanatory statement of the proposal also states, that we still face challenges in the fast-track market, precisely in relation to this misleading advertising. A true annual rate of interest can still be sought with cats and dogs in many high-end commercials, as a result of which many consumers are misled by the calculation of the actual cost of loan management. That is why it is justified that we too in Finland should go to other European lines and impose restrictions on the advertising of instant drinks. Furthermore, Mr President, I also agree with the other comments made by Mr Satose about dealing with this problem of over-indebtedness by the Finns themselves. In fact, we need three main tactics to do this: to prevent over-indebtedness, to help the over-indebted and to provide after-care. Education is the most effective instrument for preventing over-indebtedness. As consumption becomes easier, the risks of over-indebtedness have also increased. Yes, we should also be given guidance on how to use our own money for children and young people. Another important prevention tool would also be to allow the use of positive credit information mentioned by Mrs Myllykoski in Finland. This would benefit both entrepreneurs and consumers as consumers' financial situation would be better known to creditors. The possibilities for increasing more responsible lending in Finland would be significantly improved. After all, the report of the liquidators appointed by the Ministry of Justice should be completed at the end of this month, and hopefully it will also recommend Finland to follow the other EU countries here too. Of course, there are many ways to do this. What then, Mr President, is going to be done to help the over-indebted and to get out of debt, and I will say that the present government has also done good work here. Improving the employment potential of the long-term unemployed in enforcement in six Sabbath months is a good example of this. In addition, financial and debt counselling plays a key role in providing financial advice and preventing the spiral of debt. Therefore, in the spring spending limits debate, the Government has allocated EUR 5 million to develop operations as easily as possible for Finns who are in the early stages of the debt cycle. This important work should also be continued in future governments, regardless of the composition of the board. With these words, I hope that this bill will be properly dealt with in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u92	Mr President! It is nice to hear that with this bill, the hall from right to left is so unanimous. It's a common goal. We're on an important issue here. Thank you to Mr Satonen and more than 100 other colleagues for this good debate and also for the legislative initiative. And thank you, too, to all who have signed this, and in any case have held this common cause, over-indebtedness, on a time-by-day basis. There are tens of thousands of people in Finland, especially young people and the unemployed and entrepreneurs, whose lives are hampered by over-indebtedness. At the turn of the year, the number of enforcement debtors was 246,000 and the number of write-offs was around 380,000 in Finland. The number of enforcement debtors has remained more or less the same, but the total amount of liabilities has increased. The last time I received feedback today was about the constant use of addictive quick-jump ads on the radio. I have also received feedback in recent months on how these advertisements and perhaps in our society at the moment a very consumer-centred mindset favour the idea that many young people think that everyone or almost everyone should have everything that other children in the village, the neighbourhood have. It would also be important to understand and talk with children and young people about what is needed. But, of course, there is also a need for social debate. In particular, I am concerned about our schools and our teaching in the sense that these issues of interest, which, however, relate to the understanding of the amount of euros needed to pay back the quickie, should also be able to bring to our young people through education, the basics, when we have such good mathematics teaching in school, by teaching them what the value of money is and what it means when there is interest rate 48 or something like that. But this over-indebtedness of private individuals: it is increasingly due to the sudden and too often whimsical correction of the economy by these high-interest speeds. Our legislation has therefore been amended in 2013 to set a cap on loans below EUR 2000. However, in recent times this has been circumvented in such a way that more than EUR 2000 has been offered, which could then have been raised in smaller instalments. It is important and good that Parliament should address the issue and that more legislative initiatives have been tabled. In addition to this marketing ban, a couple of years ago Mr Toivakka introduced a bill on the regulation of the interest rate cap on quick-leases. And Minister Häkkänen has also intervened in this spring. The Minister of Justice launched preparations to tighten up the regulation of short-term credit so as to tighten both the interest rate cap and the consequences for the creditor of the breach of the interest rate cap. For example, in the event of a breach of the interest rate ceiling, the consumer would not be obliged to pay interest or other credit costs. This would, in a way, serve as a sanction both for quick credit providers operating in the sector and then as a preventive measure. This bill is an important one, and I also hope that many other representatives will be able to deal with it properly in committee. In addition to Mr Satos and other colleagues, I would like to thank Mr Taavija in particular for maintaining the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u93	Madam President! Over-indebtedness is a major problem in Finland today, and indebtedness, especially through these speed levers, is the worst possible indebtedness that can legally occur. These speed levers are used or forced to use by people who have no choice. They do not have the opportunity to negotiate in the bank the terms of the loan, but they are forced to take on the cost of life the loan whatever happens to them, and, as we know, interest payments on short-term loans are simply excessive and unacceptable. This initiative is very welcome and I have signed it myself, and most of Parliament has signed it. I hope that this initiative will go through smoothly here. Mr Satonen has hit a good point here, and he is doing a humane act to the benefit of all those who are disadvantaged and excluded when he goes through.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u94	Mr President! Mr Satose's bill is an excellent one, and I hope that it will be passed as soon as possible. Having listened to the distress of many quicksands, I have noted the real impact of advertising on the matter. A big ad on the side of a bus and at the same time a temporary lack of money or a flashing ad next to the games of an online casino when playing human games have caused many to collapse. The ban on marketing certainly has a preventive effect, and it is one of the ways of helping to prevent financial difficulties for those affected by financial difficulties and enforcement and prevention. The social credit mentioned by Mrs Myllykoski and the promotion of it in Finland so that it is no longer just a voluntary task for municipalities, but rather a statutory task, is also very important because social credit helps people to manage their economies, break the cycle of debt, rehabilitation, employment, housing or overcome the rest of the crisis. It is a real shame that there are only 30 municipalities in Finland that grant social credit to their residents. The plight of those who have fallen into enforcement, the plight of people who are disciplined by international recovery companies, and the massive fallout of our social and health care customer fees each year — some 320,000 customer fees have been imposed on them last year — all of this, is really such a big and vast entity that you cannot control at once, so it is an excellent thing that this is going to be put right as one step at a time. This bill from Mr Satose is a good help to one point, and then we will continue this work with the legislative initiatives to put things right. It is also very important to increase control and access resources. Southern Finland's avi controls recovery companies, and I don't think there's enough resources there. Yesterday I was delighted that one of the collection companies had received a warning of their illegal activities. Many times these fast-start companies and recovery companies are the same companies, i.e. the same companies have both activities. Was it three minutes from the scene? [President PaulaRisikko : Yes, but so on and so on. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u97	That's a good thing to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u98	Madam President! Thank you to Mr Satonen and all the signatories to this bill. Over-indebtedness is one of the most serious concerns and problems in our country at the moment. It happens in a variety of ways, and the spiral of these speed levers is one that I'm sure each of us has received feedback from, and many, if not in the family circle, have people who, through gambling, have got into this kind of cycle, where the problems are getting worse all the time. As a matter of fact, there has been a long period of action in this House, at least 11 years or so, when I have been here, I remember myself. First of all, MP Sampsa Kataja raised this problem at the time and actually got a very aggressive defence and attack when he was driving a total ban, and that was when certain measures were taken, were changed. But here it is a bit similar that one should be able to talk in some way about technology-neutral legislation or something, since we are on this side, one might say, diabolically clever. Always looking for a new way, always looking for a new way. When the interest rate was limited, another way was developed, or when certain limits were made, it was said that apply today and then lift when you feel like it, in smaller parts, in a way circumventing the legislation that has been produced. I have a slight fear that in this marketing ban too we will see similar action. That is why, for example, the representative above: Tavitsainen made a good point of saying that we should go ahead in pieces and be prepared to make further improvements and corrections, since that is how I think we are going to have to continue to do so. Hopefully, people will be responsible and will not take their part in circumventing this marketing ban, for example, in the way we have seen about illegal, illegal online gambling and playing poker, in the way that Finnish completely responsible people go out of their lives by getting small compensation, making illegal advertising in different social media channels, hidden advertising and this type of advertising. In this reform, too, there is that fear. But the motion is excellent, and it is great that Mr Satonen is back in the Chamber active and in the voice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u99	Mr President! Thank you all, once again for all the signatories and thanks to all the commentators. I must say that the Members who have commented here and who have taken part in the debate, and of course many others, but above all many of you, have been very active at various stages in solving this same problem. Just as Mrs Heinonen has already mentioned, Mrs Kataja, when she was here, did good groundwork, and this is precisely what we need to be able to resolve across political borders and from many different sources of income, as Mrs Taavitsainen has said very well. I do not imagine that this alone will solve this problem, but I believe that, in a preventive sense, this will make a difference, and any person who can be rescued from such a cycle will be a big victory. It must also be seen from that point of view. Mr Heinonen has quite rightly pointed out that there is always the challenge of finding new ways of working, and that is quite true. In that sense, I think it is worth learning from the Netherlands, which defines the fact that local financial supervision can constantly monitor what new products are coming from there and that it will update the list of products and which products are once again considered to be banned from marketing. You have to be awake all the time. This system is certainly not complete either, but it is self-evident that if we now ban certain products, then in a few years' time we will have completely different products on the market and the effects will probably be the same. It is very important that we have the right to intervene very quickly in the new situations, because it is important to protect those consumers who are experiencing difficulties in managing money and who are in an economic situation where they are at high risk of becoming quick-lease customers and thus being in debt spirals. Thank you all again for this, and I also hope, together with others, that this matter will go further in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u100	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The bill is presented by its author, Mrs Huovinen, to whom I wish Parliament and myself a very good continuation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u101	Madam President! Article 6 of the Finnish Constitution states that people are equal before the law. Article 22 states that public authorities must ensure the implementation of fundamental rights and human rights. These entries are in line with Finland's commitment to numerous international human rights conventions, and they are also in line with Finland's state of civilisation. And for these very reasons, the bill now under discussion is important. There are people among us in this civilized country who do not get help for their health concerns and problems. This is not right; people who need help must be helped. It is therefore necessary to address the situation in which people who need care are deprived of help. The talk is therefore about the organisation of health care for so-called undocumented people. This is also difficult because, at the moment, we in some cities offer treatment for paperless people, but in others we do not. National rules of play are needed in this area. It may have been the most difficult to understand that, since Finland does not yet have the legislation proposed in this bill, we are in practice unable to ensure, for example, the necessary health services for pregnant women and children. It should also be mentioned here that health safety is also at stake, since prevention of infectious diseases must be properly managed. This would better safeguard the right to the necessary care and health services for third-country nationals residing in Finland who do not have a residence permit required by the Aliens Act or who have been granted a temporary residence permit for certain reasons specified in the Aliens Act but who are not entitled to public health services other than urgent care. This bill is, in substance, about the same as the bill that I presented on behalf of the government here last year in Parliament, which unfortunately lapsed. This is therefore a government proposal from 343 2014 Parliaments. These services provided by this bill would be short-term health services considered necessary by a health care professional, such as care for pregnancy and childbirth, and long-term and other illnesses. This bill therefore does not allow any form of health tourism, which was wrongly warned, for example, during the last period of the government's proposal. The essential thing is that a healthcare professional always evaluates the need for treatment. It should also be borne in mind that many long-term illnesses, if untreated, can lead to human suffering and higher costs, because our society already has a responsibility to act without delay in all situations requiring urgent treatment. For example, diabetes can be taken: if it is left untreated by a person, very often the need for help may become urgent, for example, for special medical care, which, of course, is far more expensive than being treated properly at the level where it is to be treated, i.e. on the primary health care side. For minors referred to in this bill, all necessary health care services should be provided on the same scale as for minors with a municipality of residence in Finland. The right to health services would therefore be essentially the same as for asylum seekers seeking international protection in Finland. In order to finance these essential services, the municipality would levy a customer charge corresponding to the cost of producing the services. This corresponds to the fee currently payable to a person who is not resident in Finland. Insolvency should not, however, be an obstacle to the provision of services. The cost of the services would be reimbursed by the State to the organising municipality in accordance with the Cross-border Health Care Act if the costs of the services had not been recovered from the person himself. Madam President! In the current situation, we have a number of problems. There is human rights and equality, which is not being fully realised at the moment. We have inconsistent practices and, unfortunately, there is a message from the municipalities that the municipalities are not quite aware of what the compensation system is currently in place, that this current system is also perceived to be very unclear in the municipalities. And that is why mere instructions are no longer enough. That is precisely why, last season, we brought this proposal as a government proposal to this Parliament, where it unfortunately fell. Mr President! The right to health recognised in international human rights treaties and the right to the necessary livelihood and care provided for in the Constitution is a matter for all people. Regardless of the aspects of immigration policy or control, states are obliged to safeguard the fundamental rights of every person on their territory, including an unauthorised resident. International human rights actors, such as the Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe, the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights and the Special Rapporteur on the UN's right to health, have repeatedly drawn attention to the shortcomings in many countries regarding the implementation of the fundamental rights of the people concerned and the right to access health services. The only correct conclusion is that clear rules of play and legislation will be drawn up in our country so that we can safeguard the fundamental rights of all those in our country, and this will ultimately also be cheaper than dealing with these worsening human diseases as a matter of urgency. Mr President! As the President has already pointed out, this is my last evening in this Chamber, and I would like to say that this bill has been very important to me and I am pleased that it will now be my last parliamentary act after these 19 years of parliamentary representation, and I would like to thank all those Members of Parliament — I asked for one per party — who signed this bill and thank you all for your good cooperation and wish you every success in their work for the benefit of the Finnish people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u102	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u103	Mr President! When Minister Huovinen introduced this bill in his day, could you say, as a predecessor to this Parliament, I believe that many citizens who care about human rights in general, and perhaps those who work with this problem at grass roots level, were relieved? Many municipal decision-makers were particularly relieved because it was precisely the legislation that municipal decision-makers needed and have been in need of in recent years, but it did not exist because the bill then lapsed. I would therefore like to thank Mrs Huov for choosing to use her expertise, time, energy and perhaps, above all, her heart on this very issue as her last parliamentary act, at least for the moment. Mr President! I would like to make my own contribution, above all as a representative in Helsinki, for two reasons: firstly, because it is precisely in the area of undocumented health care and essential services that decisions have been taken in Helsinki, as it were, past the national guidelines; and secondly, because these questions concern the capital region and Helsinki in quantitative terms, and, therefore, perhaps this referral debate can also be sent to committee on that point. The most valuable information package that has actually been compiled in Helsinki was completed in February of this year: a comprehensive working group report entitled ‘The Challenges, Service Needs and Measures for UnPapered Persons’, which has also been dealt with by the City of Helsinki and which is now certain thatthe situational picture and presentations will take place on a more comprehensive basis,as well as on the issues covered by this initiative I am now picking up just a few figures from that report, so that we can understand the scale we are talking about, or, on the other hand, the scale we are not talking about, because this debate often gets shades that completely disappear. Of course, between 2015 and 2017, we have had an exceptional number of asylum seekers, as has been the case throughout Europe — although Europe’s figures are pale compared to the numbers of many other, far less prosperous countries than we are, so this too should not be exaggerated. I hope that we do not use words such as the ‘wave’ or ‘flood’ because of the twisting image of the sky, which is the real issue of human mobility in the world. Well, if we then look at this undocumented question and what figures we can find here, last December the Ministry of the Interior estimated that there were 2,300 people left undocumented in Finland in the asylum process, of which there were just over 1,000 in the capital region and most in Helsinki. However, the timeliness and importance of this bill is underlined by the fact that the number will increase during this current calendar year and will continue to increase, as it is estimated that around 8500 people will receive their decisions during this current calendar year either in their first application or in further proceedings at different courts. It should be anticipated that there will be at least an increase in the short-term stay of undocumented people in Finland, and therefore we need guidance and rules for local authorities. So, what has been done in Helsinki, and what have we learned from it, and what can we also use to deal with this bill? After all, in Helsinki, the City Board first outlined that all women and children who are pregnant and pregnant are entitled to the necessary social and health care services. Then this right, which was first restricted to children and pregnant women, was extended to all. These are recommendations from THL, numerous organisations, medical organisations, health organisations and various immigration organisations. It is a question of both humanity and safety, infectious diseases and so on. Mrs Huovinen gave an excellent account of these points here. Well, then, what's all this cost? That's what we often want to hear with you. Well, from this report, which was approved in Helsinki in February by the City Board, it can be read that the estimate of the costs for 2016 is about EUR 40000 and the provision for this year 2018, as numbers have of course increased, is about EUR 400000 — that is, EUR 400000 in Helsinki, with a total budget of well over EUR 4 billion. In other words, we are talking both in numerical terms about a relatively small number of people and about cost-effective costs. I believe that if costs were compared, for example, to the costs of the spread of infectious diseases, which we have already largely won, we would be able to achieve quite a cost-benefit if someone wanted to stress this in particular at this reading. Mr President! I believe that the municipalities will really greet this with joy if they get a line on this issue. This has been a difficult matter, and I myself have sat in the Helsinki City Board with my colleague Silvia Modig on numerous occasions to reflect on these issues. We felt very powerless that the state did not come under instructions and had to act as if it were on its own, but we are of course, in Helsinki, to some extent proud of this. In conclusion, I would like to say that, unfortunately, Mrs Huovinen is leaving us here for my part — and I believe that many colleagues will join in — to ensure that this bill does not remain at the foot of a process in Parliament, but progresses. As the Social Democrats tend to say, we will not rest until it has been dealt with and sensible rules have been laid down on this issue of human rights and security. As Susanna likes to sing: “We are fighting for human rights. “ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u104	Mr President! One of my first initiatives was to secure health services in Finland for undocumented children. I thought it was a good way to start working in Parliament. Although paperlessness itself is a relatively new theme in Finnish society, the demand for universal access to health care has been in the labour movement programmes from the beginning. Health care for undocumented people is not a marginal issue; it is the source of all this. Finland was not made when the gentlemen of Helsinki celebrated declarations of independence. This land was born when people began caring for one another over their own loved ones and families. From the outset, health protection for children and pregnant women was at the heart of public health work. Still today, when Finns help poorer countries to create health systems, work begins with health protection for children and pregnant people. Mr President! I come from a politically active family. It means that my parents, my grandparents and their parents have worked and sacrificed to get everyone to see a doctor. Forssa's programme of 1903 requires health services for all. Nowhere does it say that all of this should be limited to those who have the right of residence. In the labor movement of that day, the whole idea would have been absurd. Mr President! Of course, our health rights are not just due to the ticks. Another strong root lies in the millennial health work of the church and the wider Christian movement. It started with Jesus, who healed sick papers without asking questions. This example continues to affect the activities of Christians throughout the Christian world, including in Finland. Anyone is willing to make sacrifices for a friend or family member. Christian radicalism is that the unknown are also counted as fellow humans, that the needy is helped, that he was his own or another congregation, that he was his own or another nation. I understand that paperlessness still seems to be a new and confusing issue for many Finnish and Finnish politicians. Our culture has been based on careful censuses for so long that when someone is not properly in books and covers, it is uncomfortable for many. In Finland, the debate on paperlessness is still so early that many are just getting used to the idea. There are problems that disappear when you just persist enough to pretend that they do not exist. However, health care for undocumented persons is not one of these problems. In order for our system to maintain its universal nature, it must be updated in this respect. Mr President! My initiative at that time did not move forward. Unfortunately, neither did the government's proposal for the same period. I hope that this time we will be more successful. If this does not happen, we will certainly return to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u105	Madam President! The right to health is a human right that belongs to everyone, but in the case of undocumented people living in Finland this right is not fulfilled. Paperless people are not a new phenomenon, but their numbers are only increasing as a result of the government's blubbering and brutal immigration policy. Tighter immigration policy with legislative changes and stricter guidelines of the Finnish Immigration Service leave more and more people unstated. The situation of the undocumented is different throughout Finland because the municipalities have the power to decide on the scope of the services. That is also why Mr Huovinen's initiative is so important that national rules are laid down. My home city, Helsinki — as my colleague Torsti said — has set an example and taken responsibility when we decided at the end of last year to extend undocumented health services to essential services. In the past, this right was in Helsinki for children and pregnant women, while others were promised urgent treatment, as is still the main rule at the national level. In the course of this debate, fears were expressed as to how securing the necessary care would lead to health tourism, that it would attract people in need of expensive treatments to Finland or encourage them to remain undocumented, as if paperless were a desirable solution for anyone. As Mrs Huovinen explained in her speech and as the expert estimates show, fear is unfounded. At every stage, when we have expanded the rights of the undocumented in Helsinki, the end of the world has been painted. The representative, Mr Torsti, gave an excellent presentation of the key figures from the Helsinki example. The review is the mother of studies: According to a report by the City of Helsinki officials, the total cost of undocumented health care will rise to approximately EUR 400000 this year. The Helsinki Social and Health Services budget is over EUR 2 billion. A large number of undocumented residents are in Helsinki and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, and most likely also new undocumented applicants for the Helsinki Metropolitan Area due to government activities. Nevertheless, Helsinki as an individual municipality has considered that it can afford to take care of human rights. The example of Helsinki shows that ensuring the necessary care does not congest services and that the economic issue is quite marginal. If only the paperless who were driven to the edge of society had the courage to seek the help they needed. Intensified politics and delinquency drive undocumented people to avoid contact with the authorities and seeking help. If you don't go to treatment until it's fatal, it's gonna cost you a lot of money. The biggest problem for us in Helsinki is that we do not reach those who need health services. Ensuring undocumented treatment is also essential if we are to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. It is also in the interests of all of us. Now is the time to put things right nationally. Together with my group, I am one of the signatories to the bill and I thank Mrs Huov for taking the initiative and for all your valuable work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u106	Madam President! For my part, I would also like to thank Mrs Huov for her many points of cooperation and also for this legislative initiative. Of course, we have had things on which we disagree, but a number of things we have worked together on, and this is one example of the things we were able to work for as ministers last season. Finland is committed to a number of international agreements providing for the right to health. These agreements lay down minimum obligations for particularly vulnerable persons and provide that women, for example, should be entitled to free pre-natal care, childbirth and post-partum care. Children should be entitled to health services on the same basis as Finnish citizens. According to the Constitution, everyone has the right to a decent life and the necessary care. During the last parliamentary term, when the Constitutional Committee dealt with a government proposal with the same content, the committee then stated that the draft law was a minimum standard of living with dignity, which belongs to everyone. I therefore think that, in practice, the expiry of this bill at the time meant that we are not guaranteed a minimum level at the moment. In other words, according to the Constitution, the state and the municipalities have an obligation to safeguard the realisation of fundamental and human rights, and this obligation, a duty of fundamental rights, cannot be imposed on voluntary or private charity or on the third sector. We know that, for example, the Global Clinic, which operates on a voluntary basis, frequently meets people who have been turned away from public health care services even if their health status requires care, and health professionals are uncertain about what treatment it is possible to give to a patient under the current health care law. The current legislation should ensure urgent access to treatment for all. But what is problematic is how to interpret this urgent treatment. Unfortunately, it has often been interpreted as mere on-call treatment. For example, pregnant women and young children, such as vaccinations in children or follow-up of pregnancy, are among those who have not received any other treatment. Of course, this situation is inhumane, but it is also difficult for doctors and healthcare staff who, because of its uncertainty, then turn people away from services. I personally think that this situation is contrary to the ethics of the doctor, and that is the underlying reason why I myself am among the signatories to this initiative. In other words, the social status of the patient should not affect the treatment given to the patient. From the medical point of view, it is quite intolerable that there is a conflict between doctor’s professional ethics and health policy. When I was working as a doctor, as an experience of my own, there may have been people who had been injured or who had fallen ill in connection with some illegal or criminal activity, and yet no one is left untreated for it. I shall now take one extreme example — without wishing to equate paperless with these people. When Turku’s knifer was treated for a long time because of his injuries at the University Hospital in Turku, there was quite a lot of discussion about why he is being treated there as well as these victims or victims’ helpers. But that's the starting point for a doctor's ethics. So I really don't compare undocumented to terrorists, but I want to show you that the ethics of a doctor always go from helping a patient. Everyone must be able to trust that a doctor will never separate his patients for any social or any other reason, including illegal activity. Of course, we will have treason and sexual exploitation of the child as exceptions to this, but the undocumented are not among them. That is why I think that failing to treat the undocumented is deeply contrary to the ethics of the doctor, even if they are illegally staying in the country. This delay in access to treatment in these situations, which is well described in this initiative, is also economically short-sighted. Urgent treatment is always more expensive than timely treatment. For example, if a child is left unvaccinated who suffers from pertussis and then has to undergo urgent treatment, perhaps even intensive care, it is now far more expensive than that child’s being vaccinated. In Sweden, the extension of undocumented care is similar to what has been presented here for less than half of the estimated cost. To conclude, I would also like to say that: After all, the Medical Association has taken a very strong position that this should be put right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u107	Mr President! To begin with, it is probably appropriate to correct the term confusion that when people are talking about paperless people, it is actually a matter of illegal or unauthorized people in the country. [Left: No!] For example, seeking asylum may be a right, but it is not a right to receive it. Each case will be dealt with by a public authority and all available legal remedies can be launched from that process. Anyone who does not or does not reside in the country on any other legal basis must leave the country. That is quite clear and understandable. If he/she needs any immediate medical treatment when he/she leaves, he/she should be given it, but the main task of leaving must be to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u108	I give you the answer, Mr Huovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u109	Madam President! Firstly, we must correct the claim made by the representative, in which he said that the paperless are always illegal residents. In other words, we have different kinds of undocumented persons who need help under this bill: for example, persons who have come to Finland for study purposes or for reasons other than EU or EEA countries and who have received a residence permit on the basis of private health insurance but whose insurance cover has expired or is not comprehensive; persons who have come to Finland from countries other than the EU or the EEA or Switzerland, for example, whose right of residence is pending or unclear. So we have a large number of people who are covered by this definition. You might want to be very specific about these. And as for the right to treatment: I think it would be more straightforward — if there were representatives among us who believe that Finland should not be committed to international agreements that safeguard everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u110	Mr President! First of all, although some of the undocumented people are unauthorized in the country, this is a violation of the same level as, for example, speeding. I assume that Mr Mäkelä does not think that we should ban health services from all people who drive speeding or commit a similar offence. I would also like to shed some light on what Mrs Huovinen has already said about these examples, who are all undocumented: for example, a person who is married to a Finnish and who is waiting here for her residence permit and who is pregnant. He is not entitled to Finnish health services during this period until he receives his residence permit based on family ties here. In some cases, from the point of view of health rights, even a Finnish person who has lived abroad for a long time may be covered by health insurance there and subsequently moved back to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u111	If they want to make a debut on this, they're gonna open it now. Please stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u112	Mr President! When some misinterpretations were made of what I said, they must be corrected. In other words, that representative from the Kontula's point of view that I would in any way equate those in the country illegally with some other offenders is wrong. In other words, I did not go on to take this position in any way on the basis of its action, but on the basis of whether or not a person has the right to reside in our country and should therefore have the right to social security and full services in our country. Furthermore, no one has contested the doctor’s obligation to treat patients in need of urgent treatment. Nor have I taken a position on this, but on whether the rights that a foreigner legally resident in Finland or a Finnish citizen has are extended, whether illegally or without permission, to foreigners residing in Finland. I believe that this is an intolerable idea if such an extension is to be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u113	Madam President! Perhaps to this point, I understood Mr Mäkelä's first speech in such a way that this definition of paperless was different from what it was officially, and I wanted to address it. In addition, I would like to say that, when this is what many of these arguments say, that emergency treatment must of course be given to everyone by a doctor, many speeches have already been made on this subject, in which it has been explained in detail that this is a far more costly way of dealing with these people who are facing problems. It is also a humanly heavier habit. If you think of some underlying disease — untreated diabetes, neglected asthma, a variety of underlying diseases — what is the human tragedy of not getting help from anything, not to mention children and pregnant women?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u114	Congressman Mäkelä, let me give you an example. No HIV-positive children have recently been born in Finland other than paperless children. This is because our pregnancy clinic practices include a HIV test routine for all mothers. This is a disease that can be prevented if the medication is started during pregnancy, and tests for which the price is really minimal in the Finnish budget. Do you really think that there is an intolerable situation if even pregnant women in Finland who do not have papers receive HIV testing during their pregnancy? Why does that make it so unbearable?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u115	Mr President! This is now an interesting debate in the sense that first a legislative initiative is being taken calling for the opening up of healthcare to a very, very large extent for all,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u116	Madam President! This initiative is not opening up very wide-ranging health services for undocumented people, but is specifically talking about essential health services. And I believe that the essential answer to Mr Mäkelä's question is that it is not the duty of health care staff or doctors to act as a police officer or judge in other situations, even in these situations. And when it comes to essential care, it is precisely the vaccination of young children or treatment during pregnancy that may then lead to the need for urgent health care services. For example, if children do not receive vaccinations, they may then be on call later upon receiving that very pertussis — and then after infecting the Finns and their children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u117	Mr President! I would also like to say that ‘illegal’ and ‘paperless’ are not, in my opinion, synonyms. We have people in Finland who are here legally, who are in the process of asylum, for example, but who do not necessarily have papers. In that sense, too, this is a rather mazed debate. It seems that immigration critics often want to bundle this word ‘illegal’up with almostall immigration-related persons, which is a bit of a problem because everyone has their own type of situation and story. This initiative is very worthy of the fact that it is precisely in this area that we have to explain why it is these disadvantaged people, especially women and children, who must be guaranteed the necessary health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u119	Irade the Talman! It is quite clear that there may be some misunderstanding here or there will be no understanding of what is at stake. This is a measure aimed at a relatively small group to protect our society, to keep people within society for the benefit of all of us, so that society is more functional, healthier, more inclusive, more caring. And if, along with it, you are spared unnecessary, costly measures, is that not in the interests of all?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u120	Mr President! In fact, colleagues have all spoken well here. I would like to underline now that Mr Mäkelä had so many questions about the figures and their diversity that in December 2017 the Ministry of the Interior has indeed estimated that this exact figure will be 2300 people, within the framework of this definition, which is used in this debate for paperless and also for these health services. In addition, I would like to thank Mr Räsänen for his good description of what is necessary health care and its analysis — including, as with the medical profession, what is the assessment made by the health care professional and on what basis these are done. That is what this is all about, not, for example, my doctor of political science, but the possibility of giving a medical professional the opportunity to assess these situations within the framework of national standards, as it were. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u121	Mr President! To that last speech by Mr Torst: If the Ministry of the Interior estimates that there are now 2,500 people who would be in this area, how many of those people will be next year at this time when these negative asylum decisions are beginning to become final and, in practice, they will not be removed? Since no other European country can remove them, neither can Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u122	Mr President! That is precisely why, as I said in my speech, this bill is very timely, because during this year we are going to see a larger number because of Finland's own policy and its very prolonged processes, whose legal bases do not seem to have been fully implemented, and that is why they are being prolonged. It is therefore precisely for our own society, as Mr Adlercreutz described very well, that it is in the interest of everyone at this point to create one of the practices that municipalities can follow. For some of us it is, above all, a human rights issue, for others it may be a security issue, but above all it is in the interests of everyone in Finland, and it is quite difficult to argue otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u123	Madam President! Surely we all sign that Finns, but also all the people here, should be in an equal position. This is already starting from the entry in our Constitution. I do not know whether there will then be representatives in the Chamber who disagree with our Constitution on this basic line. But when this is the case, you can rightly ask why we are not in a position to legislate on this issue, which would ensure that all municipalities have the opportunity to make decisions with the same content. It is precisely because this national practice is nowhere to be done that people are in a position of inequality, and these differences between the different cities, between the different regions, are enormous. And to this end, according to this bill, the services provided by the law would be short-term health services deemed necessary by a health care professional — not a broad coverage to which this debate seems to refer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u124	Once again, Mr Kontula, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u125	Mr President! After all, we have quite a lot of experience from other countries as to how different health legislation works in relation to undocumented people. A particularly interesting example is the example of Spain, because Spain, a few years ago, limited undocumented rights to health services, not to as low a level as they are in Finland, but to a lower level than they were in the past. Among other things, local medical organizations organised thousands of doctors’ protest marches against them because they felt they were so problematic. And quite soon, it was only a couple of years before it was estimated that this was a mistake, that the cost of care for the undocumented went up, because timely treatment was no longer possible. Mortality rose, and it became more difficult to prevent infectious diseases. On the basis of these experiences, I can only recommend:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u126	Mr President, ärade talman! Society is measured by how it treats its weaker, how it pays attention to those who have the least. That, too, is what this bill is all about. But it is also a matter of healthy selfishness, as has been said on many occasions. It is clear that we, as a society, as Finns, will win if we work to ensure that everyone among us is part of this community. As Mrs Huovinen said, the State has a duty to safeguard the fundamental rights of everyone residing on its territory. This should be self-evident. For our part, we can now contribute to Finland being one step closer to this goal. In his own speech, Mr Huovinen raised the reasons for adopting this initiative. The representative, Torsti, has successfully opened up the experiences of Helsinki. It's worth taking care of the sick, it's worth preventing the disease, it's worth protecting the children. The fact that health services are provided to the undocumented not only protects them; it protects us not only from diseases and diseases, it protects us not only from the erosion of our values but also from higher costs, as Mr Räsänen said. If something moves the world forward, if something takes humanity forward, humanity, it is worth doing. It has been a question of Finland being built to this point — even if a better world may be a factor of attraction. Mr President! Cynicism does not inherit the world. Good deeds do it, caring for it does it, and in this case even selfishness. I would like to thank Mrs Huov for showing us all what the work of the MP is about with this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u128	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mrs Huov. It is a great choice that Mrs Huovinen has chosen this particular issue as her last parliamentary act. This bill has already been well-founded in this debate. I very much regret the fact that, at the end of the last Parliament, a very small number of representatives managed to giggle this issue. I believe it was against the will of the majority in the last Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u132	Mr President! I felt it was important to speak for Susanna Huovinen's initiative today, also because, at the moment, I think I am the only representative of the government party in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u135	Mr President! This bill on the obligation of municipalities to organise certain health care services for certain foreigners and the law on the amendment of the law on cross-border healthcare is therefore, as a general rule, of the same content as the government's proposal in the last parliamentary term, which thus expired at the end of the parliamentary term. After all, the former Minister for the Interior, a respected Social Democratic politician in Kari Rajamäki, played a major role in this matter, for which he deserves full and warm thanks. Mr President! During this parliamentary term, the social services granted to persons residing illegally have already been extended, not only by decisions taken by some city councils, but also by a law adopted by Parliament last December, which compensates for some of the costs incurred by the municipalities concerned by the state. This decision by the City Council of Helsinki, which has also been discussed today, came about by a rather limited majority, although, among other things, the cost estimate of the proposal was incompletely drawn up, and I would also venture to doubt strongly the estimate of the additional costs of just EUR 400000 presented here today. Later we will certainly see what they really are — I think they are far greater. Mr President! The problem for this bill and for this development in general is that certain parties are willing to extend the basic services provided by society also to persons who are not legally authorised to reside in Finland. This is not only about the economy, but also about the principle, namely whether the services paid by Finnish taxpayers also belong to persons who are not legally authorised to be in the country. Mr President! Even conservative estimates indicate that there are many thousands of illegal residents in Finland today. The situation has changed very significantly since this original government proposal in the last parliamentary term was made. The position of the Finns on this issue has certainly become very clear from what Mr Mäkelä has said, but let us say it again in the Minutes: we are not in favour of extending the social services provided to people living illegally, which is what this initiative is intended to do. The situation must be corrected rather by the return of illegal residents to their countries of origin and, of course, the correction of Finland's immigration policy must take place in such a way that the number of illegal residents does not increase any further. The Finnish social system must rely on the principle of legality, to which the representative Even before the hill, he was referring to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u136	Mr President! Let me begin by correcting a couple of minor inaccuracys from the previous speaker's speech. First of all, this estimate of 400000 Helsinki represents an additional cost, not in relation to the fact that paperless people would only be offered acute health care, but that there would be no paperless people at all, which is therefore not a realistic starting point. If only urgent treatment were offered to the undocumented, we do not know what the cost would then be, would it be 400,000 pluses or minuses, but certainly it would not be zero. Another imprecision or perhaps a logical roll is the idea that we can rely on the principle of legality and at the same time somehow remove the undocumented from Finland. That is not the case, because first of all, our ability to send people to their countries of origin is bordered by the international law that we are committed to, and these international agreements are part of our legal system and part of the rule of law that the representative spoke about. A country the size of Finland should not go down the road of resigning from international agreements and returning people to the sovereignty of other states. If we do, it may occur to a country that Finland’s sovereignty may not be sacred and untouchable, but that it may also be possible to violate it. Secondly, we have quite a lot of experience from other countries that it simply does not work by returning the paperless situation. Countries that are much more heavily armed than we are, with much larger police powers than we are, have failed to keep the number of undocumented persons to a low level, even close to the level it has been in Finland. At the moment, Europe is living, living, working, setting up its families, is likely to be studying much more than a million undocumented people, and they are not here because the European countries did not do everything to drive them away, but because it is not possible, in a civilised state, to take action in accordance with international agreements that would allow border control to succeed in this respect. As far as we are aware, this kind of policy has only succeeded in implementing one Western country, namely Germany, in the late 1930s, and I hope that at no time will we introduce the methods in which it succeeded. Mr President! When this law, the bill for extending undocumented health care, was last in this Chamber, I gave a lot of talk about it and did a lot of background work on it. In this context, I also collected a lot of material, not only international research, but also the experiences of people who in their own lives feel that our current legislation is unreasonable. I want to read about three of these experiences. The first two are the experiences of Timo Keskitalo, who was the leading worker in the organization of Christian background: “I had a conversation with a young African He had been to a doctor, and he was suspected of having breast cancer. This student had used the family savings to come to Finland and study so that he could eventually become the financial support of the entire family. He could not think of dropping out of school and wasting all the money. Of course, he had no funds for expensive cancer treatments in Finland. He decided to let cancer do his job. It was better for him to continue his studies and die than to return to his country of origin as a failure.” And another example: ‘The immigrant’s friend family was visiting Finland. He went with the family boy to the swimming pool. He slipped on a wet floor and hit his head on the floor. The unconscious, bleeding boy was lying on the floor of the swimming pool. The workers at the swimming hall first asked who would pay for the treatment before calling an ambulance. Before the ambulance started moving, the ambulance driver asked who was paying. While picking up the boy, my immigrant friend had to convince me that he would pay for the treatment.” The third example came to my attention in other ways. The translation from English to Finnish is my own: ‘After sleeping, there were no months of pregnancy, and a test of fitness,I was pregnant. I had never thought about prostitution before, it is very shameful in our culture, but what else could I do? Abortion is almost a thousand euros here, many hundred even in Tallinn. I would never have gotten that kind of money in time to beg.” These examples show a very different reality than where we, as Members of Parliament who are protected by high-quality occupational health care, live. They tell of a world in which survival is not a matter of course, a world that, however, opens only a few miles from this hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u137	Mr President! I am a little surprised by what those representatives say about the fact that it would violate the sovereignty of a country if its own citizens were returned to that country. Would it violate Finland’s sovereignty if Finns were returned to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u140	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä obviously did not listen to what I have just said when I listed the points in which the government has reduced the procedure in which the need for asylum is examined, so that the validity of the criteria on which the decision is based is worse than in the past. Not another one of these. Representative Mäkelä can read them in the parliamentary minutes, if you are interested. I asked for this floor only to express my support for Mr Elovaara's idea of establishing such an ingenuity visa, as he put it. We all know that the share of the retired and retired population in the country will increase. This is a major reason for the much-speaked sustainability gap, which is a permanent concern for the sustainability of public finances during this government and Parliament, and for many future governments and parliaments. I find it quite absurd that Finland expels people who have learned the Finnish language and who have a job here — and many families too — just because they have come as asylum seekers and then the authorities have come to the conclusion that they do not meet the criteria for granting asylum. There should also be an opportunity, so to speak, to earn a residence permit even when you have come as an asylum seeker and that asylum is not granted. We need people who are able and willing to work in this country, and in that respect it is time to make sense of our policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u141	Mr President! I was a little surprised by the threat that Mr Kontula painted that perhaps somewhere in Europe would be moving towards German policy 80 to 90 years ago. I did not quite understand what Mr Kontula was referring to. I leave his speech to himself in this regard. On the other hand, however, I would like to comment on the principle of legality, which he mentioned, and in particular on the return of illegal residents to their countries of origin. First of all, it must be remembered that, for example, negative asylum decisions go through a very multi-stage process with very many complaints, and I believe that once this whole process has been carried out, these negative decisions are very well-founded, at least in general terms. Mr President! In the autumn of 2015, when this migration crisis was at its worst, the Government proposed to conclude return agreements with Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia with a view to rapidly and effectively making these mass returns where appropriate. Over the years, such a return agreement has been reached between the EU and Afghanistan, and that is something that Finland will be able to use in the future. But, on the other hand, with Iraq, for example, such a return agreement has not been concluded, even though the Foreign Minister, in his time, that is, more than a few years ago, promised a great deal and hastily promised to promote it. Unfortunately, nothing concrete has been achieved in the negotiations and little has been done. I have been left with the impression of this debate in public about these return agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u142	Mr President! Let us go over some of these grounds of international law when Mrs Mäkelä asked about them. Indeed, national sovereignty includes, among other things, the fact that another country cannot bring people or objects or anything into an area governed by a particular state, not even its own citizens. Of course, we also have the right, in international human rights treaties, to return to our own country under any circumstances. But if a person does not show such willingness to return, the State itself can say that it is not. And there is nothing to say about it in Finland, except that Finland can withdraw from international agreements and smuggle people into its countries of origin. But this, on the other hand, has significant consequences for our position in international law, and when there are neighbours as big as Finland's, I would not seriously consider this route. What's the problem with our foreign law anyway? Well, the big problem is that it leaves the categories of residence permits and people are not categories. Foreign people, in the same way as Finns, usually want to, do, do and motivate many things at different times. At the same time, a person may be married, work or seek employment, study, and still be persecuted. In fact, most people do two or three things at the same time. For this reason, when our system of residence permits recognizes only one criterion and even condemns people as liars and abusers of the system if they present more than one criterion, as is the case with a normal person in general, at the same time, it creates unreasonable situations — that is, that our system is built on assumptions about foreign people who do not apply to human life in such a general way. To Mr Savilo, I would say that I was apparently a little unclear. The intention was not to assume or say that anyone here would like the German model, but to warn against the fact that the strategies on the basis of which the basic Finns imagine that paperlessness would be solved have worked nowhere but in Nazi Germany. It has not been possible anywhere else. For decades, with huge efforts, the United States has removed paperless people, chased paperless people, and there are paperless people more than ever. In all European countries, huge foreign raids are constantly being carried out in order to catch the paperless: to actively remove those people from the country. And undocumented living, working, forming families, having children in every European country still. However, politics should be based on some kind of realism and preferably on learning other countries' experiences.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u143	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-14-ps-66.u144	Mr President! I will now say a few words about this bill, when its author, Mr Kärna, is no longer much to our annoyance here in Parliament as our congregation. As such, the idea of tax relief for regions facing challenges of less employment and demographic development is, in a way, viable, although I would see that not all of these regions are necessarily more in need of such support than the three provinces of South-East Finland, for example, in my constituency. On the other hand, I would have some doubts as to whether the extension of such a positive special treatment to the taxation of such regions or of people living in such areas is, at least, in line with the principle of equality that is now required by law.
