ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u2	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on the national implementation of the Common Fisheries Policy of the European Union. The proposal clarifies the procedures for allocating individual fishing quotas and complements certain practical activities of the scheme. In addition, the possibility contained in the Common Fisheries Policy of the European Union to exploit the additional quantities of Finnish fishing quotas would be added to the law. I think this proposal is timely and we are heading in the right direction. In the future, it is proposed that Baltic salmon from river basins in commercial fisheries would be required to be labelled in the same way as salmon from the sea. This would improve the control of salmon fishing. Of course, the obligation to label salmon from river basins in commercial fisheries will slightly increase the role of public authorities and commercial fishermen. However, the arrangement improves the ability of the authorities and the fish trade to monitor that only legally caught salmon are caught. If the main objective of the proposal is to improve the profitability and operating conditions of commercial fishing, this proposal should be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u3	Mr President! The salmon issues evoke great emotions. It concerns, on the one hand, the role and rights of professional fishermen and, on the other hand, the possibility of taking care of their livelihoods. At the same time, we also have a lot of recreational fishing and tourism-related fishing, which are big business issues in the north. What matters is that rivers are kept open and even smaller streams, the flowing waters can pass so that salmon can spawn and the salmon can be enjoyed by a larger proportion of Finns. I therefore hope that attention will also be paid here to the role of salmon as a refresher and a producer of pleasure for all citizens and that this will not be viewed solely from the professional fishermen' s point of view, but from a slightly broader perspective when we talk about salmon. Of course, this also has to do with the way in which a sustainable salmon stock is safeguarded and the fact that salmon is not overfished, as is the case with other fish in the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u4	Madam President! We have been talking about salmon quotas in the Baltic Sea for a long time, and they always come up and have also caused quite a heated debate. I very much welcome the fact that, in the best, strongest way in seven years, we are now also dealing with illegal fishing in the Baltic Sea, where Poland is, of course, the worst region and the poaching in Poland. There is a need to find a whole and a responsible balance between ensuring that fish stocks are managed with sustainable fishing and no one is able to make this type of poaching. Mr Heinäluoma raised a very important issue, namely that fish should be allowed to board the rivers. In Finland, too, quite a few rivers are still harnessed in strength and are not equipped with fishing trails. In my opinion, there would be a joint, important project in which I would like everyone to be involved in restoring all the rivers that have been harnessed with power, at the very least by means of fishing paths, so that the salmon can move forward. We have good examples of how salmon stocks, for example, will be picking up along the Vantaanjoki river, for example, far from the Riihimäki region and from many other rivers as well. In other words, the fish road issue is one that I hope we will be more determined to raise the issue. It would certainly be a place in some way to oblige these power plants to be responsible for the construction of these fishing routes. In Finland, we have a number of excellent examples of how salmon have been brought up even surprisingly steep fishing paths.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u5	Mr President! This is an important issue, and fish policy, of course, always talks, and it is a good thing. Just as we in the Committee on the Environment are dealing with fish quotas in the Baltic Sea this year, the challenge we face in our international environment, namely that in Poland, poaching and misreporting are still a major problem. Now the Commission is finally finding ways to verify it and, hopefully, to impose sanctions in the future. As far as our Finnish environment is concerned, as the previous speakers have said, it is very important to remove the obstacles to rise. We also heard earlier in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on this subject, and one of the major obstacles that may not be dealt with so much is the use of road drums and their inadvertent installation. This is something to which attention should certainly be paid, so that the same road drums that are placed in it will in any case be either repaired or always properly installed in the future, so that the fish can get up, because there are very small streams and rivers along which the fish will spawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u6	Madam President! Fish always give rise to great emotions, and so have they in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy for the seven years I have been involved. This has come about in Poland, and as long as I have been involved in the committee, for seven years, we have always taken a stand on it, and now it seems that the message is finally moving in the right direction towards the Commission and is being addressed. In the past, we have talked about EU aid in various contexts, for example, for countries that do not comply with the EU's common agreements. It has now started a little that there will be no aid if the common rules are not of interest, and in this respect I would be equally harsh. If the common fisheries policy and rules and restrictions are not of interest, then there will be no aid. The fish roads were mentioned. We've got 30,000 climbers. We've got to take them down. And then the condition of the seas: the worst prediction is that in 2050 there will be more plastic in the seas than fish. It is absolutely shocking, and there is a need for joint efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u7	Madam President! This government has started, for the first time in fact, to invest financially in how to revitalise migratory fish stocks, and it has even been raised as a top project — 12 million were put there. It is, of course, far too small a sum as a whole, but it is a start, and I hope that the subsequent parliaments will also support it in the future. The results are positive in many places where these restoration projects have been carried out. It is certainly the case that resources should be available where power plants are used and where they are already obsolete in terms of energy efficiency. At the moment, no one is really taking responsibility for it, and efforts have also been made to find ways of doing so. Then, as far as the European fisheries policy is concerned, which is of course referred to in secret fisheries, it is good that this minor amendment to the bill also draws attention to the fact that we know what is being taken out of the sea and how much it is and everything is being labelled, as it should be. But Finland and Sweden are in a rather difficult position to do so: for example, last year when Minister Leppä negotiated these matters, I think Finland was the only one with Sweden who voted against the increase in quotas. Our line that we are in favour of the ICES recommendations on fishing quotas for salmon, for example, is very important if there is to be fish in other parts of Europe. If the salmon does not ascend into the river Tornio, the river Simo, then there will be no place else. A lot has been said here about different rights in relation to fishing. I would like to raise the issue of local rights myself, and I hope that they will be taken into account, for example, in Article 10 of the Fisheries Act, the problem which left these people's rights in the case of Upper Lapland when they were weakened, in relation to the legislation that came into force last season. In addition, it is of course the case that last season we also started with a salmon strategy and the Ministry then adopted a regulation on it. Perhaps because of this and also because of two very warm years, sea currents, other factors, but this summer the stock of fish The river Tornio has been smaller than in previous years. That is why I think it would be a good idea for the regulation to be examined in so far as there was also talk when the regulation was adopted, that it should be examined within three years. If, for a number of reasons, those peak years have now been slightly overturned, then the issue must be taken seriously that we have a viable salmon stock in our own countries and, therefore, in other words, Europeans benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u8	Madam President! I am very pleased with the tone that has now been here when we are discussing this important fisheries issue. I myself have been the daughter of such a recreational fisherman since I was little girl, and I remember how good and nice a hobby fishing itself is. That is why I found it very important in this earlier speech by Mr Heinäluoma, in which he expressed the hope that, when we look at these things, this recreational fishing and its possibilities will also be strongly involved in the future. Of course, we must always consider professional fishing, but that aspect must not be the only one, but it is also important and very important that we see this role of salmon as a refresher, as Mrs Heinäluoma said very well in her own speech. I couldn't agree more. I also found it very important that this sustainable salmon stock was raised here. That is a very good thing. I share Mr Kiuru's earlier concern about the condition of the seas, their purity and the cleanness of the waters in general today. In that respect, I am quite happy with what he has said. He continued the warm nature line of the Saloian assembly, which I very much appreciate in this hall. President! Good speeches were made on the subject of fish. I would also like to stress that they must be in good shape, and I could say in such a way that fish also need a well-functioning infrastructure for their environment. That is why it is important that we also pay attention to these matters in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u9	Mr President! When we talk about endangered species in the world, we easily think that we are talking about the species of rainforests and so on, but we often do not remember that there are fish stocks in the Baltic Sea too, which are endangered. It is very important that we also speak from this point of view at the moment. There has been talk here of the right of fish to board rivers and fishing boats. Of course, when these species are protected, it is absolutely vital that the rivers are in the condition that the fish is able to board them and that these fish roads are properly constructed. It is good, therefore, that there is now such a great consensus in this Parliament. I would also have taken one additional element in relation to this question of the fish road and the rivers. We have a number of small-scale hydropower plants, as well as Sweden, whose economic or energy output is no longer very high, but which then, by their very existence, prevent these fish from entering the rivers. A proper assessment of this should be made as to whether hydropower rights can be purchased and then, if implemented in another way, could bring entirely new perspectives to recreational activities and nature tourism. I believe that the idea raised by Mr Heinäluoto in his own speech was that, in the end, if we compare the economic advantage, nature tourism, recreational fishing, especially in the north, which brings such benefits, economic benefits, which may be many times higher than fishing off the south. This should also be considered as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u10	Madam President! When considering fish quotas, the Finnish line has been good. The scientific assessment and the ICES recommendation must always serve as the basis for quotas. However, just as has been said on many occasions in this debate, quotas alone are not enough to care for sustainable fish stocks, but we also need to work to remove migratory barriers. In fact, I think that the changes in misinstalled bridge drums are a rather small and easy way to get to grips with this, but also inefficient hydroelectric power stations should be included under the review: they could be dismantled in order to improve migration opportunities for migratory fish. The main challenge facing the EU's common fisheries policy when considering quotas is, of course, secret fishing. I hope that Finland will continue to take a firm line here, calling for a change with the other EU countries that are responsible for their fisheries policy. As far as this bill is concerned, it is therefore proposed that, if a scientific assessment appears that the quota is being significantly increased, an increase of 10 % may be allowed. Especially in the case of salmon, this does cause concern. If you look at statistics on rising salmon, they vary quite widely over a period of two to three years. In this case, a one-year recommendation may be a rather dangerous path. That is why, as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has said in its opinion, it is very important to take action here: this must be done with special care and with the principles of caution, and it is absolutely essential to monitor the effects of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u11	Mr President! The European Union's common fisheries policy is a big deal, of course, with a view to Finland holding the Presidency of the European Union from July next year. But, Mr President, I would also like to highlight this national perspective that we have recently reformed the fisheries law in this country and that it has been a long process, to do it, to implement it, but now there are messages that the current government wants to open the fisheries law. I am concerned about this in the sense that opening this Pandora's box is a problem if and when it tackles, for example, online fishing by adding the number of four networks to eight. This is a big deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u12	Responses to representatives Multala and Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u13	Mr President! I'm glad it came up here. At least we don't have the will to open up the fishing law. I know that the Minister has put this law into statements, but we have dealt with it and said that we are not supporting the opening of the law at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u15	Madam President! Yes, in my first speech, I have in fact raised the problems that have been left behind in that fishing law during the last period, particularly in terms of the rights of the local inhabitants of Upper Lapland. And yes, the Minister in this regard has also had the real problem and concern that the locals there have had, and I hope that a solution will be found. For three years we have studied and examined whether a regulation would be able to deal with it. Can't do it when it's at the level of the law, so there should be a change in that. And as far as this network issue is concerned, to which Mr Skinner referred, this is probably more of a news duck, where you based your information. Of course, the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry has not issued any opinion on such a proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u16	Madam President! It was a good thing that this matter of fisheries management fees came up. In the role of Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry myself, I have held three negotiations with the government partners on this issue, and the position of us blues is quite clear and clear: we will not accept the extension of the fisheries management fee to 65-year-olds, because we all know that grandmothers and grandfathers and grandchildren are enthusiastically fishing. Of course, they themselves do fishing, but there is a silent transfer of data then for those posterity. It is an extremely important issue for many others. And if you think of the fish management fee as just money, for us it is more a matter of principle than a question of money. If you think that these money from fisheries management fees is used to plant fish and manage fish stocks, then I would urge that controls be directed at those fishermen who need it to be paid, and then get this money for the management of fish stocks. But we don't want to open a fish-management fee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u17	Mr President! The fishing law should be opened in so far as it concerns, for example, the rights of local people in the northernmost municipalities — if there is no agreement on the overall reform of the fishing law or on a broader reform — at least that section should be opened, because it has all been recognised that, when it took shape, neither the representatives nor the lobbyists were awake and that it was purely an accident. And when it was, you would believe that there could already be a consensus in this Parliament. This number of networks is not necessarily a bad thing if more networks are available. In Lapland, many lakes are underfished, and then the increase in the number of nets would work to ensure that fishing waters can be managed much more efficiently. Then, in this salmon discussion, we must also remember the river from which the salmon has been taken entirely, the Kemi River. Salmon policy in the Baltic Sea is based on the fact that salmon can also be returned to the Kemijoki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u18	Mr President! We certainly agree that the situation in Tornio is extremely challenging. With Mr Kulmun, in particular, in the Nordic Council, we will see more broadly how big the whole was in Greenland. But, Mr President, I would like to point out that, at the end of the day, this is a question of the fisheries management charge, that we need to involve more young people, especially those who are active, because that will enable us to develop the whole, the cumulative value of the fisheries management levy, and not necessarily increase the fees for the smaller group. Everyone understands this. But, of course, it is now great if you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, acknowledge here that you do not concern this number of networks and you do not concern the 65-year-olds' issue, which is obviously the news duck.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u19	Let's go on the list for a while. About 2 minutes before half of this debate begins to be closed — in other words, the debate will be suspended — but we will now have a few more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u20	Madam President! The national implementation of the EU Common Fisheries Policy and the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry are under discussion. It is really essential that we in Finland and the EU as a whole protect endangered migratory fish that are at risk of being lost from the sea. It is also in the interests of professional fishermen and recreational fishermen that fish stocks remain viable for the future. Finland must therefore drive a sustainable scientific recommendation on fisheries policy and fisheries quotas. I welcome the fact that we are dealing with the secret fisheries that Poland is engaged in and that we are addressing all other abuses. The debate has also highlighted the fish road strategy that has been launched in the last period, and it is essential to continue the work of dismantling migratory barriers to the spawning of fish. In this context, I would also like to thank the active non-governmental organisations, who have done a very significant job in restoring the rivers of migratory fish, increasing spawning squirrels and cleaning rivers. This work should be much more supported. And as far as walking obstacles are concerned, they must be vigorously dismantled. I have to say to Mr Kulmun that in fact the government has hardly increased the resources for the fisheries strategy, because the government at first cut the traditional appropriations with which these fishing road obligations have been met and then added the cuttings to the top of the lead project. It is now truly regrettable that there is no funding for this key project in this year's budget, so there will now be a break in moving the strategy forward. However, it is not enough to build fishing roads alone, because we have a great deal of small hydropower that is irrelevant to energy production, but which is nevertheless detrimental to the vitality of fish. We need a programme to dismantle these migration barriers, as in Helsinki, for example, in the Gulf of Old Town, this dam could be partially dismantled so that the structures would remain as a historical reminder of part of the dam, but that the fish would still be better able to rise and spawn in the Vantaanjoki watercourse. There has also been a debate on the fishing law, and I personally find it very dangerous when all kinds of demands have been made about the number of additional nets and so on. We cannot afford to make such disastrous changes to the fisheries law, which last season was introduced to protect the vitality of fish.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u21	We're gonna make one more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u22	Mr President! I would like to thank all the representatives who have spoken here on behalf of our endangered or endangered migratory fish stocks. It seems that in Finland far too long we have lived in a time when we did not understand the value of our wild migratory fish stocks, and that has led to the situation that we have lost many migratory fish stocks, we have lost whole species in our waters and far too many species are at present endangered. We hold some sort of questionable world record in how we have destroyed and ruined our rivers of migratory fish, and this is not something you can be proud of in any way. That is why I welcome the debate that is taking place here. As Mr Karimäki said, Finns do defend fish stocks. People all over this country are doing a huge amount of volunteer work to restore spawning areas, to open up barriers to migration, but there is nothing they can do about it when the wall is up against, a wall that the fish cannot pass through. We know that we have a problem with our licensing system and our legislation. We have hundreds of migration barriers that are difficult to tackle. A large number of these are completely irrelevant to energy production, but they are there once they have been authorised. And once this permission has been granted to an energy company or a power company, it is really difficult to intervene. It is very difficult for us to oblige these energy companies to take care of fish stocks and to build fishing paths there. That is why I personally hope that all these groups who are now speaking for migratory fish, on behalf of endangered species, will also be involved in supporting the amendment of the Water Act so that we can increase the obligations of the power companies to which these authorisations have been granted once, because otherwise it will be very difficult for us to save endangered species and revive these endangered stocks. And I fully agree with Mr Karimäki that we must also look at the obstacles to migration in the light of what can be dismantled from there, because those who are of no use, which are only harmful, are obstacles that must be removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u23	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented in order of number 8. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 18/2018 vp is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-10-12-ps-100.u24	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented on the 9th of the order of business. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 19/2018 vp will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the second reading of the draft law.
