ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. One hour, 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 4. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u2	Mr President! The state of the roads in Finland is not easily satisfied. The main problem is the inadequacy of funding, but the issues that arise in the debate are also the lack of clear quality standards and quality control. On 12 April 2018, the Government has submitted a proposal for the reform of the Road Act. The proposal responds to these challenges. The proposal is also central to the implementation of regional reform in the transport sector. The aim of this proposal is to ensure the national coherence of the road network and an adequate level of road service throughout the country. The proposal contains new provisions on road maintenance quality requirements, road service level and maintenance level. The draft law defines service levels for different categories of road: long-distance transport service, nationally significant trunk network, power and ranges not connected to the trunk network, as well as other roads. In order to ensure the quality of roads, the proposal would also include provisions on road maintenance quality control and safety management system. A uniform, safe and good road condition through clear requirements and more effective monitoring is in the interests of both citizens and the business community. Mr President! As a result of the regional reform, the majority of the transport responsibilities of the Ely Centres will be transferred to the provinces. In the future, the tasks of road maintenance would be divided between the state and the provinces. The law would provide for the management of road maintenance on the basis of a contract procedure in cooperation between the state and the provinces. Road maintenance would remain the responsibility of the State, the roads would be owned by the State, and the Finnish Transport Agency, that is, the State, would continue to be the managing body of the road. However, most of the road maintenance tasks would be carried out by the provinces in the road maintenance areas they formed. As a result, the regional approach to road management will be significantly strengthened. In the future, the provinces and the state will agree on the organisation of road maintenance tasks and the financing of road maintenance in the regions through four-year contracts. Other transport tasks for the regions include transport system planning, private road grants and mobility management. In addition, regions may, if they so wish, take over the planning and organisation of public transport. The proposal contains provisions on the transfer of these tasks from the State to the provinces. In addition, the provisions on the possibility for regions to take on island transport tasks are included in the March proposal on the implementation of the regional reform submitted to Parliament. For the first time, transport system planning covering all modes of transport would be regulated at the level of the law. Provisions on the planning of transport systems would be added to the Road Act, which would be changed into a law on the transport system and roads. The aim is to ensure the continuation of existing good practices and to take account of new developments in transport system planning in the new provinces. There are currently no transport system plans at national level, such as guidelines for long-term measures for the development of the transport system. This is a clear deficiency. The national transport system plan would provide a state of national will for the transport system and its development to be openly used by regions, businesses and citizens and would contribute to ensuring a uniform level of service for users of the transport system throughout the country. The Government therefore proposes that the law on the transport system and roads should also provide for a 12-year national transport system plan. This will give us a whole new perspective on the development of the transport system. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has also set up a parliamentary working group to specify the procedure for drawing up the national transport system plan. Mr President! A government proposal has now been submitted to Parliament, including proposals which are important for improving road maintenance quality and quality control. In addition, the division of road maintenance tasks between the provinces and the state in accordance with the proposal will result in better account being taken of regional conditions and views while at the same time ensuring national road maintenance unity. The Government's proposal also creates the conditions for long-term, collaborative, agile and experimental transport system planning that reconciles national and regional objectives. I hope that the proposal will receive a positive response and that we will be able to implement these important reforms. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u3	Mr President! Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen and others present! Anne Berner, Minister of Transport, must be commended for the first time under your leadership, to reduce this long, years-long correction debt. There are different estimates. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, it was estimated that the correction debt was at least EUR 2.5 billion, and this parliamentary term has provided significant funding to reduce this correction debt in 2016, 2017 and 2018, i.e. this year. Nevertheless, there is still a lot of work to be done, that is, we have not yet reached the level that needs to be achieved, and that is why it is good that parliamentary consideration has also been given to the possibility of making longer plans with regard to this debt of correction, but also with regard to the financing of transport projects together over the parliamentary term. We absolutely need such a corrective debt II programme, which would now continue to go there to state roads, which are highways and rails, but, above all, smaller state roads, both asphalt roads and many gravel roads, which fall from it. I am sure that these roads will be found in the constituencies of all the MPs present in this Chamber, not to mention the public present, which will certainly find smaller roads in an unauthorized state near many homes. Here I talked with my colleague Eero Suutari about how, in their region as well as in my own region, old roads have now been peeled out of the asphalt and it has been thought that they will be made better by the fact that the oil gravel will no longer be able to fill those holes every spring. But now the problem is that quite a few of our roads, which are mainly built in the 60s to 70s, are also beginning to fail in their hulls, and then these roads will require considerable additional investment. With snow alone, or with a small leveling, these will no longer be able to cope. As part of the regional reform, the draft law on the amendment of the Road Law proposes that in a certain way this responsibility for the management and maintenance of the transport network should be transferred to the provinces, and I personally welcome that. There will certainly be better information about what you are, what kind of renovations are needed there. At present, the competitive areas, as stated in this thick proposal, are very large. We are talking about more than 1,000 kilometres, at least in this area, which I am best acquainted with, and then, with one tender, all of that motorway will be taken care of in that smallest state sand road. I would also wonder how much of this subcontracting chain can be in the background, because at the moment, especially the renovation and annual maintenance of smaller roads, even weekly, even day-to-day maintenance, is in an unauthorized condition. I personally hope that this reform will bring this decision-making process closer to the road users, to those who know what needs to be done there, and not that the computer considers that this gravel has been used and does not exist. Or, as one contractor told me, there is only a specific need for gravel in a particular area, and the contractor can lurch it all, for example, on one road block and there is none left on the other. This cannot be the case in the future. Mr President! The performance tells us that our country’s road network totals more than 450,000 kilometres, of which private and forest cars account for some 350,000 kilometres, and now quite often in rural areas it is quite close to the same size of the private road compared to the state road at the moment. And that is where it comes to asking what the problem is, and I very much welcome the fact that, under the leadership of the Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, these specifications are now also being revised in terms of road maintenance levels. One thing that also emerges here is the light - traffic routes, which we have more than 5,000 kilometres in our country — one might just as well say that only 5,000 km. The need would be significantly greater and, during my 11-year parliamentary career, they were not built by the state for more than a few funny miles. Most of them have been put in the hands of others. Then this low-traffic road, the lower treatment class, which includes 41,000 kilometres of road, or half of the entire road network in our country, is precisely what we need more investment for now. Mr President! I referred above to these areas of day-to-day maintenance. There are 80 of them, and the contracts will be competitive and will normally last for five years. It is stated here that the subcontractor chain is currently not restricted by law, and I personally hope that it will be considered that the responsibility will be more clearly known who will answer, who will be contacted. Right now, they're calling the Road Line, and it feels like those messages don't really go there. Mr President! This speech is certainly not a criticism of those who deal with you, but of the fact that too little funding is being allocated to you at the moment. And unfortunately, at the moment it feels like it — as it already felt during the last term of government — that is, all the parties in this Chamber have been in the government during that time as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u4	Mr President! I believe that the government's proposal for a new road law is good and well-founded. I hope that this law will lead to a situation in Finland where the road network throughout the country is managed in a sustainable way, so that the so-called highways, roads, trunks are maintained in excellent condition, because it is the big blood vessels on which Finland lives. But in order for the whole of Finland to be well, the lower road network is just as integral to this system. At the promised time of the bioeconomy, we must remember that every tree mott that leaves our forests always rises on rubber wheels and is on a dirt road, on a gravel road: first on a private road, on a forest road, and then on a lower road network, which is a gravel road without exception. In other words, we must now see the great wealth in this matter that, when we are creating a new system and carrying out a new regional reform, we must disperse responsibility, which is a significant one in this law. But I think it also includes an obligation for us now to see this new situation as an opportunity to change the current procedure in the direction of giving responsibility for road management to the provinces and then taking care of the better roads, the paved roads will be put in place with increased resources — let us look for new financial means or new working methods that can work more efficiently. But today’s process is no longer the case: the warmer climate, the huge rains, there can be ten winters in the same winter — between rains, 10 degrees below freezing — road salt and so forth. It eats up the road really fast and causes the road to pass much faster. After all, when there were still good winters and there were long cold periods, the road didn’t pass much, but today it does it every day. This is why the changed circumstances must be taken into account and, for example, the lower road network, the gravel roads, which there are hundreds of thousands of kilometres in Finland, must indeed be restored to the road bear. I have taken this initiative for Minister of Transport Berner regarding the province of North Karelia. There's about 4,000 kilometers of gravel network. Minister Berner has worked very well here, and we are slowly moving on, hopefully to the finish line. The 4,000 km road block that the state has a lower road network, the gravel road in North Karelia, is easy to fix today. It needs two things: one is drying the trunk of the road, i.e. digging the nutrients deep enough and running the water out of the road area completely, and the other is shaping the road surface using a grade. It's not rocket science, it's just a road grader made with crystal, a road grader made by Esa Halttunen that can do the job. It's a very cheap job. Once the trunk of the road is fixed, it will then be easy to care for and carry. Today's forest transport on our roads is something that is putting enormous pressure on us. Axle weights have increased enormously in recent years. You know the trucks now and what they were 30 years ago. The difference is like night and day. Today’s super truck can weigh between 70 and 80 tonnes, and when you drive on a bad road that is not well in its water economy, there is no other way. That is why it is important to note that we need to enter a new era, and this road law makes it possible. But it is not yet possible to do so, but there must be a common will in this House over the parliamentary term, that we genuinely address this problem: we will have sufficient funding for large infrastructure projects to manage larger roads or build new ones, and then we will have enough money for basic management and basic management. The deficit that we have experienced over the years is a billion-dollar deficit. In this parliamentary term, about EUR 1 billion has been spent on repairing them. We have made road failure stop, but some improvement has also been achieved. But there must be many of these parliamentary periods in a row so that we can reach the right level. Mr President! Finally, as far as the main road network is concerned, when road networks are put in place and we are now assessing what the national rail network is, I expect the Ministry of Transport to take seriously the proposal that we also get the Sixth Road to Joensuu and past it into a national trunk road that is being developed and repaired all the time because it is a huge wasteland for future raw material transports and also for growing tourism. And then there's the east track. It is a very good and run track today, but in practice, after Imatra, the condition of the track towards Joensuu is poor and not possible fast passenger traffic, which would be a crucially good development in achieving climate-friendly transport for the tourist side as well. And when people come to visit or go to the capital region, the train would be a very good alternative to a very large number of people under the circumstances and would also be very fast because it would reduce travel time by less than an hour, which would be a very good advance in terms of transport. I hope that this law will be successful, that it will be put into effect, and the second hope is that, even in the next parliamentary term, Parliament will be wise and will provide sufficient funds for the essential improvement of the condition of the roads.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u5	Mr President! I feel that this reform is, in a way, a regional reform on the transport side and, after the regional reform itself, quite reasonable. The major change concerns the responsibility for organisation. When Ely Centres are dismantled, regional tasks are transferred to the provinces, permit matters to the Finnish Transport Agency and road control systems to the state company of the Finnish Transport Agency in preparation. In the future, the provinces will organise road maintenance in up to nine road areas. After all, in terms of quantity, that is the same number as those currently in the transport sector. The regions then agree between them through agreements with the State. Then what happens in practice? There's no change in the funding. There will certainly be a shortage of funding. I am sure that every parliamentary party will have to admit that. Opportunities for regions e.g. the provision of regional rail transport depends mainly on the financing of municipalities, and the transport money generated by smaller regions is so small that it does not necessarily make it possible to implement the most rational way of investing in improvement. I think that, compared to the current regional union-led planning of transport systems, the role of the province will become stronger, but the final choice of words will largely be left in the pockets of the state and will therefore also require measures from future governments. In order for this change to be genuinely successful, reconciliation between the provinces and the state must be quite effective. I also see the lack of clarity in the roles as a risk. At least in the early stages, the change should increase bureaucracy and standard steering, which means that sufficient resources are a key issue. Perhaps this part of the regional reform should have been more moderate, for example through some experiments, but, as I said at the outset, once the regional reform has been carried out, this is a sensible government bill in itself, and now that this is in the referral debate today, we will be able to get to grips with this in the committee work in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u6	Mr President! The Government's proposal is mainly based on a regional reform in which the Ely Centres will cease and the new provinces will start operating at the beginning of 2020. In this context, the majority of the responsibilities of the Elyses are transferred to the provinces. In future, therefore, when the provinces carry out road maintenance tasks in nine road areas with agreements with the state, I think it is very important that special attention be paid to the tendering of road maintenance and the monitoring of their competitive tendering and the proper management of the road in the future. Safe and better roads are an extremely important issue for all of us Finns, both citizens and business. Road maintenance areas must be uniform and the right size, not too large, so that small businesses in the provinces can also operate and manage roads. This government proposal is mainly administrative, but here too I would like to mention and highlight the level of funding for basic infrastructure management, so that it will also be at an adequate level in the future. During this term of government, a record amount of around EUR 1 billion has been invested in raising the funding for basic bus maintenance, that is a good thing and we have achieved the reversal of this repair debt. This past winter has shown, in particular, that the roads are in really bad shape, and we must invest a lot in maintaining the condition of the roads, which is important to us all. Mr President! In fact, I would like to raise one more point about this big piece of legislation, which is the law on renting the part of the Saimaa Canal belonging to Russia and the associated area to the Republic of Finland. This law will include the province of South Karelia as a member of the Commission, which will be responsible for rescue services and emergency care when the Regional Law enters into force. I would like to ask you, Minister of Transport, if you are able to answer this question: who, after this regional reform, will bear the responsibility for the maintenance of the canal? That road is in really bad shape, and there have been very serious accidents over the last few years, and it has been hoped that this road will be made better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u7	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that the draft road law aims at long-term sustainability and standards for the main routes. In other words, most of the traffic responsibility of the Ely Centres will be transferred to the provinces in 20. The law also promises to safeguard the needs of the business community. The financial and operational programme is to be set up for 12 years, above all for new routes, but at the same time we must remember that the lower road network, which is particularly important for the forestry industry, must also be maintained. These weather conditions have really changed, and heavy trucks are pushing these roads. Even on the main roads, not to mention the regions, there are holes. Of course, I must thank the government and the Minister for Transport for the fact that the road repair debt has now been taken care of and that this period has come to hundreds of millions, the total contribution is approaching one billion, but at the same time the roads are getting worse and worse. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we actually have a lot of such regional cities, which are not big cities, but are doing a lot of this Finnish national product, heavy industry, wood processing, machinery. It happens at a distance from the central cities. In the development of a network of fairways to support life, it is these regions that receive direct money, and this is in line with the views of the regional cities. Of course, large cities are interested in big billion projects, metros, trams and public transport, but it is the transport routes of these cities where this Finnish national product is made that must be remembered. So much on the train side that now Finland must be really active in order to get this main TEN-T railway line in order. It includes, among other things, this Tampere-Säinäjoki interval, which should be equipped with a second track. The Pori-Parkano-Haapamäki railway line offers a good alternative for freight transport to the ports of Pori and Rauma. But if we go back to you, as has now been mentioned here and opened this Pandora's box of you, then yes. The acquisition of triplets is also important for these objectives. Think of it, in Olden's reign it was already on list number 12. Ten projects were carried out, the next government then dropped this highway 3, which is a road between many provinces and is the freeway of Western Finland. There's by far the most traffic on these northbound roads. There would certainly have to be funding in this coming period, too, so that trucks do not run through the village of Hämeenkyro. I would also fly in favour of getting these road companies too, as is the case in Central Europe, so that we also have the merit logic and tolls in some cases. I'd be ready.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u8	Irade the Talman! Tack för ministers introduction. Denna proposition föreslår ändringar i landssvägslagen för att överföra uppgifter inom trafik från staten till de föreslagna landskapen. Lagförslaget berör många olika delar som redan lyfts upp rai i debatten. Jag tänker dock focusera på förbindelsebåtarna och vägfärjornas trafik. Enligt lagförslaget är det landskapen som i framtiden ska ansvara för planeringen av skärgårdens förbindelsefartygstrafik samt för understödsuppgifterna som berör vajerfärtor och färmäplatser längs enskilda vägar. Enligt lagförslaget ska staten bevilja särskilt understöd för vajerfrirtor och frigående furir som hör till enskilda vägar. Detta är mycket bra. I väsentlig sak är att trygga denna trafik, att denna trafik fortsätter att vara avgiftsfri aven effecter att landskapen har tags över verksamheten. Särskilt för den fasta bosättningen är detta viktigt. Färsorna utgör, i synnerhet för de fast bosetta, landsvägar över vatten. Färjeservicen är en förutsättning för fungerande trafik och en Levande skärgård i såväl Åboland och Nyland som i Insjöfinland. Ministern har tidigare under perioden säkerställt att färretrafiken inte blir avgiftsbelagd, något statsrådet har öjlighet att besluta om genom förordning. Jag vill tacka ministern för att man inte infört några avgifter, och det föreslås inte Heller i detta förslag. Men det är viktigt att följa med att så inte blir fallet då landskapen kommer att taöver detta ansvar. En avgiftsbeläggning av firretrafiken skulle skapa en ojämlikhet mellan skärgården och övrigiga Finland, då man ingen annans i Finland har infört vägavgifter som skulle begränsa öjligheten att nå grundläggande bassservice såsom skola och butik eller arbetsplatser, eller begränsa öjligheter att Sköta fraktttjänster. Det är därför viktigt att säkerstalla det statliga ansvaret för att inte det ska bli fallet i de nya landskapen. Jag skulle därför grain föreslå att man tillsätter en arbetsgrupp som skulle ha som uppgift att från grunden se på hur man kunde rationalisera förbindelsebåtstrafiken och anbudsförfarandet utgående från lokal sakkunskap. Detta har aven föreslagits av utskärsdelegationen. Arbetsgruppen kunde bestå av statliga och lokala tjänstemän, skärgårdsbor och skärgårdsföretagare, och arbeta för att vöjligheterna att bo i skärgården utvecklas. Här kunde säkert också finnas öjlighet att testa oika automatiseringslösningar och andra technicalka innovationer. Den batterdrivna perärjan Elektra mellan Pargas och Nagu är ett sådant exempel. Den färjan som drifts av statliga Finferries blev förra veckan utsedd tillårets fartyg vid sjöfarts conference Sulphur Cap 2020 i Amsterdam. Vägfortorna och förbindelsebåtarna är vägar över vatten och avgörande för att skärgården ska Leva. Det är därför viktigt att säkerstalla att landskapsreformen inte aventyrar finansieringen av dem. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u9	Mr President! Thank you very much for this bill. If you look at this parliamentary term in a larger picture, then we have lived in the time of the re-entry of transport policy, the Renaissance. I am referring, among other things, to the implementation of correction debt financing, amounting to almost EUR 1 billion. By this I also refer to the fact that at the beginning of the parliamentary term many companies in the transport sector — Finnair, VR, Finavia — were in pretty bad shape, now they are in a very hard hit, thus serving Finnish traffic very extensively. We have also worked on transport network funding, both by the government and by a parliamentary working party, and it has not been easy for the Ministry of Finance to pressurise, not to say, but progress has been made. This bill, on the other hand, does not change the fact that the state continues to finance funding for the fairway, and the role of the Finnish Transport Agency remains quite the same, but on the other hand, the regions will have the power of decision to influence their own development issues, and that is, of course, a good thing. The important thing is that there is a long-term perspective: many roads go in many provinces, even though now the Ysitie, which I am driving a lot, is going from Turku to Joensuu — or you could say that from Stockholm to Petrozavodsk — and that way goes through the country. Mr President! Indeed, as a result of long development, we have a lower-level road network in a major challenge due to the current heavy traffic and, above all, the weather — for example, last autumn, when it rained every day. Especially on such clay - based roads as we do, the weather eats like a rat the condition of the roads, including the condition of the surfaces, as the weather varies on both sides of zero in the wet air. It is therefore a good thing that, as I understand it, some emergency funding has been found for this situation, but we really would like this parliamentary term to be able to look at it now, even though, through the amending budget, how, together with these reforms, we can bring relief to this situation. It is clear that we need a new corrective debt programme than we did during this parliamentary term. Finally, President-in-Office, there is a lot of talk about the hour's working area, which is important. As Mr Alatalo said, I think that these export routes should first be put in place in the towns and regional centres, but of course commuting is important, and an hour's commuting will be reduced as the means of transport and transport are improved. They can be found in different parts of Finland, although in the Joensuu-Kuopio region, especially here
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u10	Mr President! With regard to the road law presented by Minister Berner, we can see the smell of the wings of history. We have a proposal that strengthens the role of regional decision-makers in deciding on future regional planning, housing, transport, services, vitality issues related to the province's own important transport projects, infrastructure maintenance, access service level. So elected provincial decision-makers will make big, important decisions about the needs of their own vitality, including business life, and improving people's mobility in their own provinces. The three main points of the reform are that criteria for the level of service, maintenance and monitoring of road maintenance are set out in order to ensure the quality of road maintenance and to improve controls. These are all welcome when we have heard of the different needs of the province and, for example, now that the Celiriko has different needs for rehabilitation. The pattern of road maintenance brings a four-year agreement between the state and the provinces. It provides for a level that meets the service criteria and therefore also for funding. This transport system plan, according to which the use targets of the regions are very strongly introduced in the regions, must be based on and be in line with the national transport system plan of 12 years. We are now in the parliamentary group at the end of Parliament to prepare what the future transport system plan adopted by the 12-year Parliament will contain. That is why it is important for us to start this work at national level now, so that the provinces can also complete their own regional transport system plans. Mr President! I would also like to underline that, when the funding of corridors, transport, basic infrastructure management is EUR 410 million per year, will this level actually cover and be sufficient in the coming years. It is inevitable that we still need a reform of the financing of transport, which deals with the taxation of transport, the charges, the rates on how we collect transport funding. But we also need funding outside the state budget to be included in this, and that is why a common vision of project-specific companies and other future revenue streams is welcome at EU level for the coming years. We need more funding for the transport routes,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u11	Mr President! It could not be a more appropriate time of year to have a debate on the amendment of the road law than this April usually is. At this point, when there is a movement all over Finland, the condition and maintenance of the roads become the topic of discussion. The correction debt is probably the most commonly used words in this Chamber, and special attention has been paid to the consideration of the correction debt during this term of government, and it must be given special thanks to the Minister and the ministry he has led. Attention has now been paid to the real problem that has been experienced in Finland’s basic bus maintenance, that the condition of the roads or the condition of the corridors in general — but especially at this time of the year, it could be said that the condition of the roads has been too low. Anyone who moves in there has to see it every day. In addition to paying attention to road condition, quality and the quality of maintenance, funding for maintenance, repair and new construction has also been allocated in an exemplary way during this Government term, but of course in the future we will have to consider this package of funding. At the moment, this budget-based funding, which has progressed in Finland, seems to me to have come to an end, and we need to find new financing solutions. Monitoring is an interesting matter, and one example of how the road condition is monitored, for example, has been heard in the committee that, from professional groups, dairy drivers could carry out road fitness checks, thereby exploiting digitalisation and informing road operators and travellers where there is a bad condition and damage on a road that could even harm road safety. We must also pay attention to this issue. The forthcoming parliamentary working group, when it starts its work here in the 12-year follow-up group, which aims at a 12-year programme, I believe that it should start first with a core network statement defining the Finnish core network and the TEN-T network. This will enable the regions to be taken into account, and when the regional authorities are responsible for this road maintenance and in these areas in the future a considerable part will be transferred, this core network survey must be completed. After the state-owned roads retain the obligation of road keepers to the State, this transport system plan must then also include financing options and plans for future government terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u12	Mr President! First of all, I would also like to thank Minister Berner for this excellent legislative proposal. By way of exception, I also promised to thank the entire government, because I have the leadership of the government in my hands — since I borrowed the charger leadership from Mr Pakkanen here, when the speeches of colleagues from the government parties lasted so long as they thanked me so much. But it's a good show. Transport infrastructure is an important competitiveness factor and must therefore be maintained and developed. The condition of roads has been a topic of discussion year after year, and we have been wondering what the problem is with putting things in order. The debt of correction, as we have heard on several occasions here already, has increased year by year. One major problem with road maintenance has been the fact that the procurement packages have been made so large that it has been difficult to intervene in smaller parts. Flexibility is lost when you have lumped too much responsibility for the work together. It is therefore necessary to introduce a new maintenance model for start-up contracts, and more emphasis should be placed on quality factors in the selection of the contractor. In the works model, the current total price should also be replaced by the target price, i.e. the contractor would be paid on the basis of the measures and, if the target price is exceeded or below, the disadvantage or benefit would be shared between the contractor and the contractor. With current funding, the debt of correction is increasing, as has been said, and Finland is therefore forced to reform existing financial structures and operating models and decision-making. I have been allowed to participate in the parliamentary transport task force, and the parliamentary working group has just completed its work and reached unanimous agreement. The parliamentary working group on the financing of the transport network proposed a long-term 12-year transport system plan to close the debt of EUR 2.5 billion. Finding a financing model is now primarily the responsibility of the government, as groundwork for finding the model has in principle already been done. I think it would be extremely important for this matter to continue to progress during this period, now that this parliamentary follow-up working party is getting its work started. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u13	Mr President! There's an important theme here. Of course, many Finns have always spoken about roads and the level of road maintenance especially and the condition of the road, but especially in recent times, when weather conditions have deteriorated across the country due to climate change. Although there have been difficulties in the past, this debate has only grown, and now, during this winter, there have been particularly subcontractors, small entrepreneurs trying to keep you in good shape with all their businesses and resources and equipment in the region, but it has to be said that the present system has not supported this work and everyone has suffered the result. I am pleased that Minister Berner has also taken up the problems of road maintenance and winter road maintenance in particular during the winter, and I myself raised a written question on the subject at the turn of the year precisely because of these weather conditions, and we also had quite life-threatening situations on your roads as a result of this, to an increasing extent. The feedback came from both road users and contractors about the problems of organising the current level. On the basis of these discussions, when these models were reviewed how this should be improved, the reorganization of road management was considered more important than sufficient funds. In many areas, it has been particularly important during this term of government to do things differently more effectively, better. The specific problem has been regional contracts which have been so large that smaller contracting companies have not even been able to submit a tender in competition but have only been able to participate in them at national level. However, small entrepreneurs do practical work as smaller subcontractors but receive a small — very small — slice of the midwayer as part of the result is captured. The coming has no longer been able to cover the maintenance and renewal of machines today. Since the costs of road maintenance may vary much in different years too — as has been noted this winter, much more work has been done, it has also been more challenging because of the poor basic road condition — the price agreed on as fixed in such long contracts can in practice lead to losses for small entrepreneurs for several years in a row. Entrepreneurs cannot afford this, and many have stopped unprofitable activities. Now that we have taken up these criteria for road management and these competitions in the future, I would like to put a question to the Minister. I understand that in the future this contract and this amount, which will be paid for by a subcontractor or contractor for this road maintenance, can be considered on the basis of costs, the price it will receive. This would be very important. Is this model also valid in these competitions that are already starting? This concern has been raised in particular by:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u14	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that Mr Nimbalkar, President-in-Office of the Mumbai Legislative Council, has arrived with his delegation to follow this plenary session. On behalf of the Parliament, I warmly welcome guests to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u15	Mr President! It seems that our country's road infrastructure planning, maintenance and repair debt has come to an end. From a subdued and short-term level, we are returning to an old, good, tried course of action. The objective of the proposed Road Law is to create a long-term, 12-year, continuous and comprehensive transport planning system in our country, which ensures continuity of regional planning and thus maintenance of roads and repairs from the perspective of regional needs. It is important that our road network is coherent and maintained by the same quality classes regardless of the season or location. According to the proposal, the State still owns the roads and is responsible for road maintenance and road costs. The Finnish Transport Agency is the road manager and the responsible authority, and the road assets are reflected in the Agency’s balance sheet. The central government road network is maintained by separate funding provided by the Finnish Transport Agency for 18 regions, but only 9 regions would have operational responsibility for road maintenance and repairs. The financing of the road maintenance tasks to be carried out by the provinces is broken down by region on the basis of the length of the road network, traffic volumes and other circumstances, so as to ensure coherence between the road network and its condition, as well as the level of service and maintenance required by law at three levels. It would be possible for the Government's regulation to make further provisions on this issue. Let us hope that this legal possibility of regulation will also be used. Adjustable standards must be taken into account in the decision-making on the financing of state road maintenance and in the management of road maintenance tasks in the regions. It is also good that private roads of importance to society's road network are taken into account when awarding grants and that private road connections are integrated into the state-run road area. These reforms will significantly improve road safety. I also think it is extremely important in this new model that cooperation between the Finnish Transport Agency, the regions, municipalities and the roads functions smoothly. The kitka can and must also be in winter on the lower roads of the sparsely populated area. Unfortunately, in recent winters, there has not been enough of it in the main road either. Many have lost their lives or been injured in accidents on slippery roads. Hopefully, in the future, the statistics on accidents will get better. Mr President! Minister, I warmly support this good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u16	Mr President! Of course, the opposition must also join in thanking the Minister for the fact that there are many good elements in this proposal. Other models in the Nordic countries have been well highlighted, such as the Swedish way of working. After all, Sweden is talking about the right road managers' responsibilities and thus emphasises the responsibility for road maintenance between the state, municipalities and private road operators, and that is the question of how this cooperation will work in the future, how the roles will work, but also, of course, how this whole thing will be managed. In fact, I would have asked the Minister whether, now that you have been following this Finnish transport policy for a long time now, you are satisfied with the current situation, for example, with the role of your ministry, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, overall, or whether this whole transport policy should be more at Government level so that it would then be shared by the entire Government if and when, among other things, these European funds are being presented, for example, what Mrs Pakkanen rightly said here, is that there should be a big picture, the big frame networks have been mapped, so that we can then go to Brussels and propose, for example, TEN-T funding and other funding models in Finland. Mr President! Of course, the fact that the debt of correction is large and that it has been decided by Parliament to invest in it is a good thing. EUR 300 million, that too is something, and hopefully it will also be seen as it should be in Finland. But I would actually have asked the Minister another question about it: How, then, do you realistically see the role of the potential provinces to be active in carrying out these projects? And does legislation make it possible for the province itself to be not only a payer, but also a benefit, by which I mean that legislation allows for participation in, for example, a project company or other kind of financial company? In other words, not only would it be paid for, but it would be a genuine benefit for the project. Thirdly, Minister, I would also like to highlight the role of the municipalities. Already today, many municipalities are struggling with their own roads and with the slow progress of renovations even on life - threatening roads. I therefore ask you how you will see the development of such a post-financing model in such a way that, in future, a given project could be carried out by a province or a municipality, or jointly by a municipality, and then, by way of ex-post funding, the State would be able to recover this investment from the State, and that would leave the municipality only and only
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we are running out of time for the first part of this debate. This will continue once other matters have been dealt with, but now, before the suspension, I will give a few minutes to Minister Berner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u18	Mr President! I would like to thank you for this debate, for your feedback and for your lunch. This is a wide-ranging, comprehensive new legislation which, in many respects, is historic in itself, because the law, for the first time, takes up the planning of the 12-year transport system, ensures that road maintenance criteria for road and road network service levels are laid down by law and that road maintenance criteria, in addition to road maintenance, are brought to the level of legislation. However, this does not automatically mean that this legislation will solve funding. This will enable long-term planning, on the other hand, to ensure that the minimum level of funding is ensured through the service level. Funding is still an issue that needs to be worked on. Much progress has now been made in the parliamentary working group on how to take care of the debt of repair and basic infrastructure management and, possibly, how to finance very large projects of EUR 1 billion and larger. In addition to this, however, we still have to resolve the way in which we take care of investment debt when, in the 2020s, we are likely to be in a situation where transport funding is in a very challenging situation. Saimaa Canal's service route will be the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Agency, Mr Torniainen. The road ferries that Mr Löfström asked about are the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Agency. However, the liaison vessels are the responsibility of the provinces. Of course, the future and development of these things can be explored together. The career model will be reformed and ready by autumn. There is a desire to leave some room for agreement, and not everything is regulated at the level of the law. A study is currently being carried out on the frame network, which should be completed by autumn, and this, as Mr Skinner said, is a very important tool and will contribute to our TNT online negotiations in the coming year. Both the province and the municipality can be the beneficiaries of this — above all the beneficiaries of the increase in land value and also by participating in the development, financing and post-financing of these projects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u19	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u20	We shall now continue to deal with the third item, which was suspended earlier in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u21	Mr President! We know how to build roads for the transport needs of the past, but road transport is also changing rapidly with technological progress. It is no longer just asphalt and traffic signs that are needed, for example, fast communication connections and real-time traffic data analysis. In future, the actual road system must also be designed not only for human perception and response but also for the perceptive ability of the car-owner's car sensors and the ability of artificial intelligence to react. Now that we are talking about the future of road construction and road maintenance decades away, we must be able to take account of these changes in technology and business models, even though we do not yet know exactly what engineers and economists are still inventing. My main concern in this bill is whether we dare to do a law on road traffic in the future, or whether we cling to patching up the pits of the past. The renewal and updating of the road network is hindered by the constant maintenance of the old road network, which absorbs all the available resources — and it is not always enough. Mr President! We are very keen here in this Parliament to build new roads, and there is nothing that inspires the opinion of a Member of Parliament, as is the opening of a new road in his own constituency. But every new road also requires more road maintenance. Every time we open up a new road, we should, by the same decision, increase the funding for road maintenance and on the next road again and on the next road again. Otherwise, these new roads will only increase the much - buttered maintenance debt. In fact, road construction is cheap when compared to road maintenance during the life cycle. Every time new roads are opened, we should also think about giving up old roads or counting some old roads. Otherwise, the money will in no way be enough to build and maintain new roads, let alone to update the technology of the old road network, to the needs of future road transport and transport services, which we often talk about here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u22	Madam Speaker! This point was illustrated this morning by a telephone call from a Honka River large pig owner who built a thousand new pig buildings. There was anthrax draining right now. In fact, the road authority introduced a weight restriction on the road in question, and the concrete truck was unable to reach it. He contacted the road authorities and would have wanted a few loads of shards on that broken spot, but there was no budget for it. So this illustrates how important we are in this matter. Thanks to Minister Berner and the entire government, especially Berner's activity and non-discrimination, we had less than a million additional funds, especially for maintenance, and they are now running out. There should be something positive about them in the budget. That would be necessary. Minister Berner's work has been very unique in transport matters in general, and this very thick nivaska also describes the activity that is now on the agenda in road matters, and provinciality — better knowledge of regional transport issues to the Finnish Transport Agency and here in the capital, so it is possible to focus on the necessary road improvements and road projects. I also welcome these project-specific financing models for roads. They will certainly be necessary in the future, because this gap is so great in state-led road maintenance that it is quite impossible to close, although it has now been very good work done by this government, and for that to the government, and especially to Minister Berner, thank you very much. This transport system plan is extremely well thought out, and its financial problems, both in the major projects in force and in the repair projects themselves, highlight well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u23	Mr President! Although the Minister is not here, it is good to thank him for putting that task force and this infrastructure project under proper control and for seeking a long-term solution as to how our roads will remain in order and how this repair debt will be brought together. In fact, I still need such an objective of how to reduce the heavy traffic from you to inland waterways too — this pressure on us in terms of the increase in the repair debt would be slowed down. Now, in this bill, the tasks of road maintenance are transferred to the provinces. It is actually a good thing that regional decision-makers now have to measure how things are done. To date, however, the provincial government has always submitted a wish list to the state that how to proceed with the correction of the infrastructure. They are regional, regional, and then the representatives here are trying to get the Minister of Transport to agree to their own projects. At the moment, we are doing very well in business, especially in the forest industry. It is reflected in the fact that the lower road network is under heavy strain. Big loads are being carried, and that's a lot of work to do. Therefore, in its basic maintenance, when Mr Hoskonen spoke earlier about the road bear, it is a good tool for restoring these sand roads, keeping shape in that, although it does not in itself increase the load capacity, it reduces the volume of water, which then improves the load capacity — it is a better thing and goes on. Such investments should be taken into account in the internal work input of these regions. But the reason why this amount of our debt to repair is that we have such a terrible repair debt on the infra side of this kingdom is simply a decision-making mechanism. When the money is tight, from normal social services, from training, it is difficult to cut these, but the infrastructure does not scream, the road does not scream back there that I need money here too. That money will only not be given, and then it will be a place for all of us, representatives and councillors in the municipalities, to look in the mirror how this job has been calculated to get in such poor shape. Fortunately, the Minister has now taken this task force and the work to be done, and I look forward with great interest to the long-term work and a good result.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u24	Mr President! It is good to continue this debate. In response to Mr Plant's speech, I would like to make a comment. Of course, digitalisation is important, a great opportunity to develop transport chains and transport infrastructure. Nevertheless, I think it can and should be honourable to talk about bridge drum policy and the development of smaller roads, lower-level roads. It is, in a way, a fundamental right for man — as Mr Juhantalo said, people have the right to pursue a business, including the right to go to work in their own home. At the moment, as Mr Semi said, there is an increasing demand for wood at our disposal. The price of pulp rises like a rocket to the southeast now that no more wood is imported from Russia and the situation in the United States and Canada is what it is. Wood must be able to move: it is our export product, our well-being depends on it. That is why, and when many other industries, as the economy grows also in the regions and regions, where our export industries are largely... There is no export industry here in Helsinki. One of the Russian shipyards is, but there's no orders there, and that's for sale, too, if I make a little fuss. So I come to the point that the lower level of road is also important for the national economy. It is important for human rights. In that sense, as Mr Juhani said, we also need more money for it this spring, because as I told you, this change in the weather, the constant rain is eating up the condition of the road like a rat and is not allowed to go through with reasonable efforts. In this respect, this debate has been important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u25	Mr President! Of course, in the context of this road law, it is also good to discuss the road issues of the future, but the most important thing is to remember to stay in this day and remember that the existing roads must be taken care of. Our road network is in bad shape and is getting worse and worse. No one has built you there for pleasure — yes, they are needed for the needs of industry, for work and for life in general, when people live elsewhere than here in the capital region. The fact that a road exists at all or even in a superficial state does not mean that the road is at its disposal, compared to the traffic that goes along it, is of sufficient quality and is in good condition. For example, in my own region of South-East Finland, which is just the core area of the forest industry, we have invested in the freeways — thanks to Parliament for the fact that the money has been found there for the construction of the freeways — but then, on the other hand, the transversalists, which are very important for the transport of the forest industry, are still unhealed. You have structural inclinations and complexities and there are no bypass lanes or similar, and repairing them as a whole would be a project of tens of millions, even hundreds of millions, for which there will be no resources in the near future which is reasonably to be seen. Now that we are wrestling with such things, it seems very strange to plan new billions of bus projects or even tens of billions of tunnel projects. Things should be prioritised. Let us remember, however, that 8 billion taxes are levied on passenger cars, but only 2 billion are returned to road maintenance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u26	Mr President! However, when we representatives from those sparsely populated areas are happy to talk about the debt of repair and the maintenance of these small, less valuable, inferior roads, we here do not want to look down on our main road network in any way. It has also emerged from this debate that, for example, I am in a very important position for highway 8, Mr Alatalo stressed the importance of highway 3, Mr Ala-Nissilä here in the middle of the highway. We don't despise them. They're a necessity. But as President of the Section for Economic Affairs, I must, in exactly the same way as Mr Ala-Nissila, point out the need for business. This inferior road has risen in value each year, and now in a accelerating way. If we are thinking of Finland's exports at the moment, it underlines the importance of wood processing, the world's success of wood products. At this very moment, the wood trade is at its most intense. All forest companies put their salesmen in the provinces: effectively, efficiently, efficiently, we need wood, we need wood. And, as we know, we have very large pulpwork projects that are currently under way. This necessity for the entire Finnish people and Finns is so important that it is therefore never possible to overemphasize this need for inferior sciences. It is common to all of us, including those people who go from the south to their cottages and vacations who in practice see the state of the roads with these appropriations. That is why, as Mr Ala-Nissilä has mentioned, in the context of the budget debate, we need to find something more in real terms so that this fine development is not disrupted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u27	Madam President! It is precisely in connection with the speech by Mr Juhantalo that I would like to raise a point in this debate about the state of the road, road maintenance and the amendment of the road law, which is a very potential new way of doing things. We need means that have the potential to achieve not only cost savings but also considerable benefits in terms of the circular economy and the re-use of non-renewable materials. Just as Mr Juhani pointed out, the Finnish forest industry is strong, but it produces relatively small quantities of chemicals and raw materials, such as pine oil, as a by-product. There are at least two refineries in the chemical industry in Finland, of which at least one has developed a kind of bitumen embalming agent for road paving, which makes the bitumen re-flexible and thus enables the reuse of asphalt and even the construction of recycling roads. Such a method for paving roads is already in place in the Netherlands, for example, and has been proven to be as effective as virgin bitumen has been found to be in the tests, inter alia, in terms of the durability of the road surface. Madam President! Now we are in favour of legislation and public procurement and support policy to ensure that this type of innovation, which is fully aligned with the government's circular economy thinking, moves towards Finnish road maintenance and the surface of roads. When our common and legitimate concern is the repair debt accumulated in basic infrastructure maintenance, it is very important to look in all directions where there is scope for reducing costs but at the same time improving road condition and road safety. There is no harm in the fact that 25 % less CO2 emissions are generated in the further processing of tall oil used for the recycling of asphalt than if biofuels were produced as a single-use commodity from the same quantity of tall oil. Mr President! Here is a good example of the real potential of the bioeconomy by investing in long-lived products at a high level of processing. We can even reuse the asphalt. This is something to be called for in the procurement process and to bear in mind in relation to the amendment of the road law.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u28	A noble man! There is a lot of bits and bitumen in this debate, and that is important. With more power on the part of the provinces, one important possibility is — and it is also important from an environmental point of view — local rail transport. Now the government is opening up rail transport to competition. The railways remain state-owned, but I know that the regions are considering the possibility of re-establishing commuter trains. In Sweden — a group of Southwest Finland unions went there last week — local rail traffic is working well in the region and regions of Stockholm. Trains stop even in small towns. The Swedes are starting from the fact that the locality can be small. But I noticed that the vitality of commuter trains is beginning to grow and the localities are beginning to grow. Of course, there is some support for commuter trains in Sweden, but I see a new opportunity for regions to develop regionally as well, to bring vitality to the regions, to the towns and cities of the region, when the commuter trains start to operate. I see that in Varsinais-Suomi, between Turku and Salo, between Turku and Uusikaupunki, between Turku and Loimaa, it would be possible for this to be done if you only have functional business concepts, as is entirely possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u29	Mr President! Important things have been raised here and, of course, it must be remembered that when we talk about road law, regional decision-making and local democracy will also be on the way. Mr Ala-Nissilä made a good point about rail transport. It has, however, been overlooked in the way in which rail transport within the province can also contribute to and increase local transport. I myself come from Pirkanmaa, and I can say that the increase in the Pori-Tampere rail link alone means very much to us within Pirkanmaa to promote workplace traffic between Sastamala-Tampere-Nokia, which is reflected in everyday life, and that is what we need to promote. But, of course, now that we are talking about the highway, the renovation of the main routes, such as Highway 3, must be on the list and must be taken forward. And, in view of the way in which these funds will be collected in the future, we will have a situation here in the future where we will have to be able to give greater priority to the way in which these projects, which now go beyond the province, can be carried out. These are vital when we talk about business, talk about mobility, talk about meeting work and employment. Then these things must also be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u30	Mr President! Even though a lot of money has been allocated to the road repair project under this government, there are still challenges, as has been said here in the debate. Good speeches have been made on the routes, the condition and maintenance of the corridors. It is clear, as Mr Juhani said earlier here, that routes should not be set against each other, neither in terms of funding nor otherwise. It is clear that major new projects, such as large bus projects or, for example, an hour train, should be taken forward as projects of national significance, but just as much we must ensure that people and products from our industry are able to travel smoothly to the market. Just as well, people, residents, workers, entrepreneurs must be able to move smoothly on the more remote and smaller routes — the routes that make up a large part of the raw material of our industry, a large part of the workforce and knowledge. In other words, the main routes need to be developed, but just as much of the entire capillary of the fairways, which feeds on walking along the fairways, must be taken care of all the way to the last forest road.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u31	Madam President! Here I drew attention to this opportunity for the province to organise rail transport. If we are aware at the moment that these provinces are leaving the back-loaded budget of hundreds of millions of dollars, and we know that these forecasts, which are currently linked to this global budget, are billions down the drain, then I just want to see the head of the province who then decides to increase train traffic and take it away from doctors. After all, at the moment there has been a fear so far that, in terms of the overall budget, the services of the Labour Administration will have to be cut in order to ensure that the social services are at least kept to a minimum. Now, if the line is in this room to add to the possibility of using it for rail transport, then where is it taken away from, from the doctors? That's unrealistic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u32	Mr President! The universal funding raised by Mr Paatero is something I myself drew attention to here. I was wondering how it would be, then, if one of the administrative branches of the provincial administration went as long as it was, and yet the law was directed to the provision that the next year we should balance the budget, that from whom the money would be taken away. Second thing. When you think about the development of business in different regions, at least it is now certain that if this approach is transferred to the regions, very good cooperation between the regions is needed in order to ensure the future of business in the regions in terms of infrastructure construction and maintenance projects. It's a sine qua non for us to survive there. As far as rail transport is concerned, as far as Eastern Finland is concerned — when I live there, I have followed and have to use public transport, particularly bus transport — it is so that when the small side of the rail network is partly dependent on rail bus traffic — or rail buses, what they are called — if that is to be reduced, then they are no longer there at all. This is what's gonna happen. I hope that we will be able to invest more in it in the future, and with global funding we will find more money for that approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u33	Madam Speaker! Inspired by what Mr Paatero has said, I have just thought that, although it is a question of a road law, a transport law in that respect, this railway will also become the case in such a way that we often have projects on the table, rail projects which will save road transport, which is very consuming. For example, we have a track project that is closed to a large extent, but the track is still there, Pori-Haapamäki, which is the transversal track. There's gonna be a LNG gas system on the pine line. Its importance as a new engine power is very significant, and then, given that more ore themes are constantly coming from Eastern Lapland, Eastern Finland, from there high, to be processed in Satakunta's Outokumpu Harjavalta. This timber transport is now carried by huge lorries to the Jyväskylä region, from there to Kuopio area, and its replacement by train is important, and it is the transport of timber and the transport of ore that is suitable for transport. The Parkano station, for example, has a great deal of timber trade today. It distributes a great deal of wood to these factories, and the train is very good at it. It is even agile when the track is taken directly to the industrial area. It's worth saving on the road. Both of these must of course be thought of precisely in terms of saving money, because money is so scarce and it is difficult to allocate it precisely to such necessary expenses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u34	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs must deliver an opinion. One hour, from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 5. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u35	Mr President! At this point, it seems that the flock has already voted on this law with their feet and left. The proposal proposes to introduce a new Code of Business Confidentiality. The law would provide for the protection of business secrets and civil remedies. The proposal would implement the Directive on the protection of business secrets of the European Parliament and of the Council. At the same time, the regulation on the protection of business secrets from the law on unfair conduct in business would be repealed and the existing regulation would be transferred to the Code of Business Secrets with some clarifications. The regulation of the Business Secrets Act would apply, where applicable, to technical instructions. Business secrets can be a wide range of technical or financial information. In order to be classified as a business secret, the information must be classified. In addition, the information must have an economic value and the data holder must take reasonable steps to keep the information confidential. The aim of the proposal is to maintain a high level of protection of business secrets. The protection of business secrets aims to promote technical and economic development through research and product development and to prevent the use of undesirable means to obtain information, such as corporate espionage. Business secrets protect a wide range of know-how and business information either by supplementing intellectual property rights or as an alternative to them. Business secrets are particularly important for business competitiveness and R & D and innovation performance. For many smaller companies in particular, business secrecy is a key way to ensure the protection of the company’s intangible assets. Patenting is not always a procedure that works for everyone, for example because of the associated costs. The Code of Business Secrets would provide for the definition of business secrets and for the unauthorised acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets. The law would also provide for permitted forms of business secrecy. The law would also lay down the conditions under which abuses and unlawful conduct can be reported and the freedom of expression exercised despite the protection of business secrecy. Similarly, conditions would be laid down for the disclosure of a business secret to an employee's representative. The new law would include civil remedies in the event of breaches of business secrecy. The proposal proposes to amend the Employment Contracts Act. The law would be specified in such a way that, in the course of the employment relationship, the employee should not, in particular, be unfairly exploited or disclose the business secrets of the employer to others. A reference to the Business Secrets Act would also be included in the Employment Contracts Act, as the proposed provision on trade secrets in the Employment Contracts Act would also receive its content from the proposed Business Secrets Act. The proposal proposes that disputes concerning infringements of business secrets be dealt with in a district court. In an individual case, the competent district court would be determined on the basis of general rules of jurisdiction. In addition to the district court, the market law would be the competent court to investigate disputes concerning an infringement of a trade secret in which the defendant is a legal person or a natural person engaged in a business activity. The rule of law requires revisions, inter alia, to the length of the court proceedings and to the law on legal proceedings in the field of market law. The proposal proposes that the concept of business secrecy be harmonised in such a way as to ensure consistent use of the concept of ‘business secret’ in the legislation. For this reason,for example,the public authorities’publicity and the This concept would also be changed by a number of other laws. The proposed laws are intended to enter into force by 9 June 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u36	Mr. Speaker! The legislation on business secrecy, as proposed by the Government, is welcome as it clarifies operating models and harmonises practices. The basis is the EU directive, which in practice means that practices are becoming more coherent across the EU. A more comprehensive legal protection strengthens the position of companies with regard to business secrets and thus improves business conditions. Up to now, companies have had to rely mainly on agreements to protect business secrets in employment relations, as well as in business transactions and in preparing them for hidden dangers. The new law does not remove the need for contracts but also protects companies in situations where confidentiality agreements have not been drawn up. In this way, it contributes to improving the conditions for businesses to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u37	Mr President! Just as the introduction and Mr Kiviranta's speech have shown, there are sound and sound arguments for this proposal, and all in all this seems necessary. But I drew attention to the fact that a number of concerns have been raised in connection with the drafting of the law, such as those raised by the Evaluation Council at the draft stage. Perhaps the main concern raised was the position of workers, which the evaluation council considers should be dealt with in more detail in the draft proposal. For example, in cases of malpractice it was stated that the status of worker remains unclear, and I would ask the Minister about this: has this concern been taken into account in this final proposal, and did it change after the statement of the opinion of the evaluation council? I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it has just been announced today that the European Commission wants to safeguard the rights of those who have reported irregularities, i.e. to propose a completely new directive to protect people who report information of general interest, so-called whistleblowers, which would make it illegal for them to be expelled from the workplace, among other things. How do you estimate that this new directive will then be related to this legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u38	Mr President! As Mr Räsänen said earlier, there are many good elements here, including the fact that the definition of business secrecy has now been opened and defined in three ways. But all in all, of course, it is a matter of course, as the Minister said, that in Finland we must first and foremost be aware of how we protect business secrets, intellectual property rights, those valuable elements in Finland, and then they will not end up in the wrong hands. But I would actually have asked what Mr Räsänen was referring to on the same subject. After all, there are many things that have come to light in the consultation, but in particular this worker's position and perhaps the awareness and knowledge of what business secrecy really means and whether the employee understands what he is committed to when concluding the contract. So I ask you: do you have the idea, at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, that this training, information should somehow be presented? Do you have any tools for that?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u39	Mr President! The world's economic history knows business secrets from a long time ago: making porcelain, making paper, and perhaps the world's most common business secret — whether it is, I don't know — is Coca-Cola's recipe. The Finnish business structure is constantly entering a high-level area of expertise, where the relative importance of business secrets is emphasised. Nokian, let me say, the patent portfolio is a good example: the company remains heavily dependent on its income, and the Finnish industry will continue to use Tekes and others to develop products where the competitive advantage is business secret. The question raised here by two representatives, Mr Räsänen and Mr Skinner: does the worker understand? I think I understand. In practice, there are no problems so great that what is secret and what is not. What is commonly known is not secret. Anyone who is not known as a competitive factor in a company is classified. This may be difficult to detect for a person who is not employed in the company in question. In my opinion, this is a welcome law, and the fact that it can be implemented so quickly is an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u40	Mr. Speaker! Thank you, Minister Lintilä, for opening up the question. In this business secret matter, of course, the key thing is a secret, and in today’s world — by modern methods and by making access to modern information easier — it is very difficult to keep a secret, and sometimes it turns out that this slips too early into general knowledge, even a good invention. Nokia, mentioned by Congressman Lehde, is a good example of how Nokia, at least on the other foot, is able to stand well on the proceeds of patents. Therefore, with such a modest working community, a lone developer or so on, it is very important to quickly obtain a patent in order to keep a secret, and therefore, when the search for a patent scares many people with its costs, that applicant in particular, it would be necessary to moderate the many costs involved in the search for a patent. With the help of its large cashier and the process, Nokia was able to automatically collect a large number of them, which has been a great success, but for a small entrepreneur or a small community this may be too heavy a cost.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u41	Mr President! Of course, first of all, business secrets are needed and patent protection must be for inventions. It's obvious. But it also has to be said that business secrets can also be misused, i.e. the power of society to protect the interests of private companies without proper justification. This is also happening on the public side, it is said that documents will be stamped secret for a little certainty without even identifying what is being labelled secret and on what basis. Now, if too much decision-making power is given to private companies in what is declared secret, there is a risk that anything that is not wanted to be made public will be declared secret, i.e. people’s mouths will be caught up even in the mishaps of working life and other things that are by no means covered by business secrecy, but you can write an NDA in the American model with an NDA contract whose employee will then sign or change jobs. That's the options. In order to prevent this from happening, consideration must be given to the fact that, from a social point of view, there is a legal right that is sufficiently protected to establish this secret. This cannot be the case if private companies dictate to us what is a secret matter and what is not.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u42	Mr President! It is certainly as Mr Lehti said that the worker generally knows what is secret and what is not, and I would like to emphasise that I think this proposal is good and worthy of support. But I think that there are sometimes problems — albeit rarely and rarely, fortunately, but sometimes — when there are potential abuses in the company, such as tax evasion or corruption, environmental protection, health or safety, and the situation arises for the worker to consider how to react to this situation. Well, here in the explanatory statement of the proposal it is stated that when assessing the status of an employee, consideration will be given to whether the company is using this kind of abuse reporting channel. If this is the case, then it should be used, but then it is stated here that this internal notification is not the best solution if the notification concerns the manager or the persons in the management of the company — and these situations are generally those of the management of the company, so this internal notification channel is not a viable solution. And now I would like to hear: when there seems to be a need for this new directive, how does this relate to this law that is now being presented, and what is the legal protection of an employee, if this law comes into force, in situations of this kind?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u43	Mr President! I feel that two things are going to go wrong in this debate. Business secret is, for example, a customer list, raw material prices, agreements with a distribution organisation, drawings or similar. Inappropriate behavior, criminal activity is another matter. There is nothing, in itself, in these company secrets that has anything to do with criminal activity. They are often the company's ability to succeed in the market and intellectual property rights knowledge and skills acquired by the company itself. The patent is linked in a certain way to these intellectual matters, but I think that patents are being made for perhaps one hundred thousand company secrets, since the patent is already making it public in a certain way and is not a practical way for a small company. Many companies, even if they could patent, are not patenting because they expect their product development to go so fast that the patent would not have the same value. These abuses of the company, let me say, against staff or customers or public authorities, do not, in my view, fall within the concept of company secrecy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u44	Mr President! In the last sentence of Mr Lehde's speech, the word 'in my mind' came up. In my opinion, it does not fall within the scope of business secrecy either, but now the question arises as to what is covered by the law by business secrecy: Who can define what is covered by corporate secrecy? What do we, under the guise of the law, consider to be a secret matter? Who's allowed to define it? Now, if it is allowed to be defined by the company, then the company defines the things that it is in their interests to define there. Mr Räsänen made a clear mistake earlier. In my opinion, internal reporting on these matters is not enough. Yes, employees must have the right to express maladministration and abuse in working life without prejudice to business secrecy, and it is up to Parliament to protect this right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u45	And in this debate, if the Minister wishes to speak for a few minutes. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u46	Thank you, Your Honor. Good comments, all of them. Mr Kiviranta was right that the main purpose of this is to clarify. There is this basis for a directive on which all this is based. Mr Räsänen spoke about the Council's concern about what has happened, for example, to the status of an employee. This final version takes account of these concerns on the basis of the evaluation council and amended the original proposal for it. Mr Skinner asked if there were any measures to disseminate this information. The responsibility for disseminating information lies, of course, with employers and then with trade unions, who can disseminate information to their own members. Representative Mäkelä: that is to say, the law will have a precise definition of business secrecy — what comes into it. Mr Räsänen has already asked how this new directive will come about for whistle-blowers. It has not yet been fully analysed. We know what it is. There are a lot of factors that are on the sidelines of the Justice Department, which means that they cannot be said straight away, but of course it has been considered that they are not going to be contradictory at the moment, that is probably the number one and the number two, which will then come. So that protection will come, just as the protection of the notice will be wider, and it will probably be reviewed later on in the case of its second. My own view is that this clearly improves the position of workers, clarifies this overall situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u47	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 45 minutes is set aside for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 6. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u48	Mr President! This government proposal therefore proposes to amend the law on civil servants, the law on municipal officials and the law on police administration. The amendments to the Civil Service Act have, in principle, been welcomed by the contributors. I would now like to highlight a few aspects of this legislation. In recent history, the State Civil Service Act has been amended by a number of separate legislative changes affecting the legal status of civil servants. These include, for example, the regulation of dual nationality, the proposal on the right of appeal to a decision appointing a post and a post, and the present proposal for changes in the status of civil servant. It should be noted that when changes in the legal and regulatory levels are made separately, it may be difficult to perceive the overall regulation of posts and the legal status of civil servants. This proposal would add to the law on police administration the possibility of extending the police’s employment relationship after the age of resignation for a maximum of two years with the agreement of the police officer. After all, the age of a police officer’s resignation has been set at 68 years in the law on police administration. In addition, specific retirement ages of 60 and 63 years have been laid down for certain groups of policemen. For the latter groups, the transitional provision already states that a police officer is not obliged to resign at that age. Policemen must indeed have the opportunity to continue their duties if they so wish after the end of their retirement age, as do other government officials. This is justified from the point of view of equality between officials, and that is what this whole bill is based on. This proposal would amend the provisions of the Act on transfers of posts by reducing the procedure for transfers of posts, i.e. the transfer from one administrative sector to another would be decided by the Ministry of Finance instead of the Ministry of Finance, whose administrative branch will be transferred to another. I also welcome this change. Given that the delegation would continue to require the agreement of both the outgoing and the host ministry and the donor and receiving agency and the agreement of the official, it would also be bureaucratic to require the decision of the Ministry of Finance. For example, in their joint opinion, the main state contracting organisations have expressed their support for this process. President! Finally, I also welcome the amendment to Article 35, which, with the agreement of the official, would allow for a two-year extension of the term of office after the expiry of the retirement age. This amendment will enable the official's experience and expertise to be used after reaching the age of resignation, if he so wishes. This is, of course, a positive thing when it is hoped that working careers can be extended and people's skills and capacity to work together will also be used for longer. The practical application of this provision would require a genuine need for the professional skills of the official concerned and, above all, his own willingness to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u49	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. Forty-five minutes are reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item in the order of business is the seventh item. Minister Saarikko, gone. Congressman Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u50	Mr President! It is a pity, of course, that the Minister did not make it, but it is certainly an honour to have this bill presented. The purpose of this proposal by the government before us is therefore to increase the donation of non-renewable organs or non-renewable tissues from a living person, practically kidney donations, by enabling donors to be other than the immediate and other close relatives of the recipient within the meaning of the law in force. I believe that this objective is very important and that this draft law is very much to be welcomed. This change is indeed needed. I would now like to point out here that this proposal is based on a legislative initiative by Christian Democrat MP Sari Tanus in 2016 to facilitate transplantation. I myself have also worked for several parliamentary years and have spoken in favour of facilitating transplants and, for my part, I have also contributed to the previous legislative changes which have made it possible to reduce the procedure for carrying out transplants from a deceased person, which can then be used to get these organs into donation. There are too few transplants in Finland, and there is a continuing shortage of organs suitable for transplantation. We have people who are constantly dying because they cannot have a transplanted organ in time. Currently, Finnish legislation prevents the donation of a kidney to a person in need who is not the donor’s next of kin or residing at the same address. According to the Tissue Act, an adult who is able to decide on his or her treatment can only donate a non-renewable organ for the treatment of his or her next of kin or other illness. According to this law in force, neighbors are a marriage mate, a child, parents and siblings. In turn, a common-law spouse or other person living with the donor at the same address, in the same household. This narrow interpretation has narrowed out such things as aunts, uncles, cousins and friends. It is quite unusual in itself that a common household, a common address, is still a determining factor in transplantation in Finland. It is therefore necessary to have the Finnish tissue law on the Nordic and pan-European lines. Legislation in the Nordic countries and many other Western countries allows a non-renewable organ or tissue donor to act as a friend of the recipient or other healthy volunteer. Indeed, according to this proposal, which is now under discussion, an adult who is able to decide on his or her treatment could transfer an organ for the treatment of his or her relative or other family member’s illness or injury. If a relative or other close person is not fit to be a donor, then the organ or tissue could also be donated by another appropriate adult who is able to decide on his treatment. Indeed, it is justified that the law also includes provisions on investigations and investigations of the donor, which require the independence of studies and studies relating to voluntary and possible economic interests when deciding on the withdrawal measure. Mr President! Transplantation is an established form of treatment in life-threatening organ failure. By international standards, the results of transplants in Finland are very good. In Finland, between 200 and 250 kidney transplants are carried out each year. Last year, 240 were made. However, 450 people are currently waiting for a new kidney in Finland. On average, it takes a year and a half to find a suitable kidney in a dead donor, and many have to wait longer. In approximately 90% of our kidney transplants, the transplant has been obtained from a brain-dead donor, while on average 40% of the kidney transplants are made from living donors worldwide. The lack of suitable donors limits the number of transfers. As a result, several patients die each year from complications of kidney failure while waiting for that transplant. Kidney donation is a safe procedure for a carefully examined donor. A person does well with one kidney as well. The remaining kidney is able to improve its function in such a way that it is consistent with normal two kidney function. And indeed a kidney transplant is the best treatment for severe kidney failure. It releases its recipients from heavy dialysis or artificial kidney treatment, allows them to lead a normal life, many are able to return to work after the transplant, and the kidney transferred from the living donor almost always starts to function immediately after the transplant operation, which speeds up recovery from surgery, and the long-term prognosis of the transplant is better than the transplant from the deceased donor. I would add that kidney transplantation is also a cost-effective treatment because it saves society hundreds of thousands of euros compared to dialysis. Dialysis treatment costs the municipality approximately 60000 euros a year, but according to Finnish studies, a functioning kidney transplant saves society some 40000 euros a year from surgery compared to dialysis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u51	Mr President! I am very pleased that this has progressed to this stage, that there is a government proposal on something that so many people have been waiting for, especially those who are waiting in line for a transplant. In other words, just as the previous representative described this issue, this will significantly speed up the progress of these queues. There are situations where a close person, but not in line with the current definition of the law, would have the opportunity to donate the organ and thus bring forward treatment lines. In particular, I am pleased with the young people that we are making progress here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-24-ps-40.u52	Mr President! I would also like to mention that it is noteworthy that this objective of increasing organ transplantation was supported by all the rapporteurs and that this formulation of the tissue law also received very strong support. For example, Finland In its opinion, the Medical Association has considered it important to increase organ donation, as organ transplant queues are still long, and The Medical Association has pointed out that the primary means of increasing organ donation should continue to be to improve the functioning of hospitals so that as much as possible of the organs of brain-dead donors can be used for transplantation because it remains the most important method of donation, even if this law enters into force. I also see the importance of increasing information and training on transplants throughout the field of health care services, as well as information for citizens about this important opportunity. I hope that this change in the law that saves lives will come into force as soon as possible, because we really do have the 450 people waiting for this possibility of a kidney transplant at the moment.
