ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u2	Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Social Democratic Parliament Group, representative Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u3	Mr President! Everyone in this room knows that many pensioners in Finland live in poverty. People struggle in their everyday lives when they don't have enough money. They often have to choose between food and medicine. Often they are older women, women with long careers, women with children. Prime Minister Sipilä, you promised before the last election that pensioners would not be cut a cent. That promise has not kept. In 2017, the SDP already proposed a monthly increase of EUR 30 per month in its alternative budget for pensioners receiving less than EUR 1400. This is the first step in the goal of several years of raising the minimum pensions by EUR 100. Not at once or overnight, but on a realistic timetable and within the limits of public finances. Mr Mattila, are you now prepared, as Minister of State, to catch up on this and make a proposal for next year's budget to raise the level of these small pensions by EUR 30 per month?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u4	Mr President! Thank you for asking. After all, this government has not cut everything, as you suggest. For example, the pension subsidy for the long-term unemployed raised well more than EUR 30. This government has also increased the guarantee pension. We're counting the roof of the medicine. The lowest per diems have been raised. Yes, I believe that pension poverty must be combated. We do not only have old-age pensioners, we have disability pensioners, young pensioners — we all need to be improved. What is being done and what has been done in the framework is a joint and several decision of the government, and that is the responsibility of the whole government, and how things are going to be done what has been decided in the framework will also be decided by the whole government, and we will jointly see what happens in the budget debate next autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u6	Mr President! It is not part of the welfare state that we have a couple of hundred thousand pensioners living in poverty or at its borders. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about our own parents, people who have built this country. I therefore wonder why the Prime Minister and also Minister Orpo attacked this motion. Mr Government, last summer the leadership of the central parliamentary group called for a programme of measures to combat the poverty of pensioners. The former central prime minister has also said today that it is possible to improve the status of pensioners. Prime Minister Sipilä, when I do not receive a reply from Minister Mattila, you promised before the elections that pensioners would not be cut. Now that your own party is proposing a programme of measures of some kind, could you agree with this idea of raising the level of these small pensions step by step towards the EUR 100, next year EUR 30 net?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u7	Madam President! This is precisely the reason why this government has increased the guarantee pension three times, already around 40 this season. Our common concern is that the income level of the most low-income pensioners would be raised. We share this common concern for low-income pensioners. But, Mr Rinne, we are talking about a EUR 100 net, which, according to the calculation by the Centre for Pensions, amounts to EUR 1.4 billion,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u8	Mr President! In addition to income, services affect the well-being of elderly people. Last week we discussed home care here and Minister Saarikko said that the aim is to increase home care focus and reduce improved service housing. This is a worrying message, because there is a huge shortage of places for enhanced service housing across Finland, and this is partly due to this home care crisis, which was mentioned last week. There are elderly people living at home, especially those with memory problems, whose right place to live is no longer home. They should have the opportunity to move to community homes offering 24-hour care. Are you sure, Minister Saarikko, that this mantra “the best costume for all ages is as far away as possible ”on a sustainable basis?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u9	Mr President! It is important to continue the debate on this last week. I see that the Socialist line has changed in this regard. I have had a firm understanding that in Finland all parties have accepted the general principle that we try to organise services better in people's homes. The old-age service law, which was adopted during the last parliamentary term under the leadership of the Social Democrats, also came out of that spirit and the strong stream of thought. Mr President, at no time have I said from this box or anywhere else that the best place for all the elderly is at home. I have only stressed the view that the most humane thing is if we are able to make the service system better so that everyone at home can experience their everyday life as a safe life despite ageing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u10	Madam President! The number of pensioners in Finland is increasing enormously, and their purchasing power would also be of great importance for the national economy. At least as a new Member of Parliament, I find this debate in this Chamber rather confusing. It is the kind of jupas-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no, Now our opposition colleagues have even gone out to propose these concrete, indeed EUR 100 and such auctions, who offers the most money to pensioners. This would require a completely new, intelligent approach, which would pay attention to just the issues which are particularly disturbing to pensioners, and one of them is that pension taxes are still quite heavy in relation to the taxation of earned income. Would it not be possible to consider that, now that the most low-income pensioners have already gone to help, we would also help those who receive around EUR 1200 to EUR 1,300 in gross perhaps through taxation? Would this be possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u11	Mr President! First of all, I must say that I share the concern that we have a huge number of very low-income pensioners in Finland. That is why we need to make a good economic and employment policy so that we have a strong welfare society so that we can take care of pension promises and service promises. But we have a lot of different tools, and taxation is one of the most important. This government has made determined decisions so that once we have reduced the tax burden on labour, the same reductions have also been made for pensioners, with the exception of the reduction in earnings that was made at the beginning of the period. It was aimed specifically at making the lowest-income jobs more attractive and below the threshold of receiving work. But otherwise we have wanted to make a very fair and fair tax policy and thus also, to a small extent, improve the purchasing power of even a low-income pensioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u12	Madam President! The government's actions have weakened the position of many low-income pensioners. Drug payments have been weakened. Many pensioners wonder if they can afford food or medicine. But Minister Mattila also pointed out that we also have too many young pensioners on disability pension and many of them could work, something different from what they have received incapacity pension, but they are afraid to take up the possibility of working because they fear losing their livelihoods, fear losing their pension. Has the government considered whether there would be any change or improvement in the way in which the disability pension could be better linked to earnings, that it could combine this work and social security and give so many young pensioners better opportunities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u14	Mr President! That's an extremely good question. There are projects under way in the government. One is the so-called OTE project, which will continue to work with Osku from the previous governments, i.e. the road to working life for part-time workers, which has specifically developed a so-called linear model that reconciles pensions and incomes in a sensible way. We also have an inclusive social security project under way, and I am sure we can expect much from the completion of the National Incomes Register, where wages and pensions are stored in real time. It also helps to reconcile work and pension, i.e. to facilitate part-time work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u15	Madam President! Many low-income pensioners already have to choose between medicines and food, for example, today, indeed. This situation may get worse when the government reform of social and regional affairs — if it goes through. Experts have warned that, in practice, there is no alternative for the provinces to repair their economies when they are in distress, other than an increase in customer charges. Experts have warned that high customer fees can lead to the situation that the freedom of choice that the government so highly praises is such that a low-income pensioner, a low-income person, has to choose whether to accept social and health services or to buy food. How does the government intend to deal with the matter in such a way that neither the Act on Customer Fees nor the Social and Regional Reform will lead to a situation where a low-income pensioner or other low-income person will have to choose between receiving social and health care services and food?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u16	Mr President! The question is valuable and important. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to dispel the fears that have been associated specifically with the pressure to increase customer charges in the social welfare reform. As part of the reform, the Board of Directors has prepared a reform of the Consumer Fees Act. In fact, the most critical and most important aspect of the reform is the long-term provision of services, particularly for older people, whose payment practices are very unequal and varied depending on the municipality of residence. Now, first of all, these charges are introduced more clearly for the first time at the level of the law, their criteria are harmonised, and, most importantly, the government is committed to ensuring that the total revenue collected through customer charges, which currently accounts for around 7% of the total funding of our services, is not an attempt to increase through this legislation. There can be no backboard or backdoor for regions to ensure the adequacy of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u17	Mr President! Taking care of the income of those receiving the lowest pension is an extremely important issue, and that is why a guarantee pension was created some years ago and an increase of EUR 100 was added. But this is a subject that should not be auctioned. [Antti Rinne requests the reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u18	Madam President! Yes, the government has raised the guarantee pension three times, and now in the debate we have reached the conclusion that we will also be able to reduce the cap on medicines in the future. In addition, we have a basic income test, although it does not directly relate to these pensions,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u21	Let us take a supplementary question before the actual questioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u22	Madam President! Today's Finnish Broadcasting Party gallup said that the Prime Minister's race between President Rinte and President Orpo seems to be going to be very tight in the light of today. [of the Group of the European People's Party: There are others!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u23	Mr President! Admittedly, the promises made by the Social Democrats in recent days have become quite a concern. So if this pension promise as a whole is about 1.5 billion, more than one billion in any case, depends a little on how it is calculated, if your inequality programme was 850 million, then you have a social security model that would be interesting to see your calculations, these are absolutely terrible sums,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u24	Mr Rinne, the author of the original question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u25	Mr President! It is interesting in itself that the Coalition Party considers that it is time to take care of pensioners' livelihoods. It is inconceivable in itself that the Prime Minister calls it irresponsible to want to take care of the livelihood of low-income pensioners. [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u26	Madam President! As I said in my first speech, it is precisely because of this concern that the government has increased the pensions of the smallest people on bail.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u29	Next question, Parliament Group of Finns, representative Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u30	Mr President! The European Commission has presented a budget to the EU since 21. The Government’s statements that the effects of Britain’s separation will not be offset by an increase in net payments are becoming empty. On the contrary: EU expenditure is even proposed to be increased. Even now, Finland is costing the Union half a billion more on average than it is getting back, and this is threatening to increase further. According to the Government Programme, EU funding negotiations must be subject to strict budgetary discipline and Finland's contribution to the EU should be fair and fair. In February, the Minister of Finance, Orpo, declared that there was no mass and no allocation reserve when the people demanded that the holiday allowance cuts be cancelled; now there is a mass when the bureaucrats in Brussels have to be funded. Is that what the government thinks is reasonable and fair? The Finns believe it is not. How does the government explain this? Are you going to hand over the interests of Finland and the taxpayers' money again in front of the Brussels gentlemen?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u31	Mr President! Of course we won't. You are talking about the Commission's proposal, and not about Finland's position. This is where the negotiations begin. Finland will do everything in its power to make this unreasonable and over-emphasizing proposal count — and it will count, because many other Member States agree with this. We can expect a process of approximately 1.5 years, a negotiation process of at least one year, which is likely to run until the next parliamentary term, both for the European elections and for the Finnish parliamentary term. And we will go a long way before the final result, which is something quite different from this Commission proposal, which is going in the wrong orbit, with which we really have nothing to do, but we will be expressing our own positions, which are already known. Among other things, Brexit must be fully taken into account in the future financial framework. So don't worry, the Commission's proposal is a very long way from what the real outcome is, when one day and a half years from now it may be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u32	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — The other two groups have the same question, but Mr Mäkelä, please continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u33	Mr President! There is now a clear contradiction between what the government has said. Prime Minister Sipilä thanked the Commission's proposal and praised the fact that Finland's positions have been taken into account. In practice, therefore, the government has already accepted this increase in membership fees, and now the Minister for European Affairs is saying otherwise. In all the other net contributor countries, the government has knocked out the increase. Will Finland now be alone in handing out piles of banknotes in Brussels? Prime Minister Sipilä, you represent a party which, at least according to its own words, is in favour of agriculture. Have you perhaps noticed that in this proposal the EU is going to cut agricultural subsidies by up to 5%? Now the city centre spreads its hands and surrenders in front of this? Agricultural profitability is already weak and subsidising bureaucracy is heavy, producer prices are not worth producing, farms are being cut off and young people are not going into the sector. This is a serious risk for the security of supply of our country. My question is: how does the government intend to ensure, under pressure from these cuts, the security of supply of Finnish agriculture and food production, a central part of Finland's security of supply?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u34	Mr President! There was now quite a contradiction between the two speeches in Mr Mäkelä. If nothing were to be cut, that would go up to 1.2 of GDP. So who do you think you are now, that you have to lower that level or increase payments and receivables? We believe that this overall budget level is too high, as Minister Terho described there. But there's a lot of good in the budget. It has gone well with Finland's objectives of developing defence cooperation, of providing money for it, of the Erasmus programme, which enables European students to study, will double. There are also new financial instruments for companies that Finland has been able to make good use of. The final net contribution to Finland will then depend on how well we get from agricultural policy, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u35	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Det har nu föreslagits att EU:s budget ska utvidgas något för de kommande åren, och Finland har inte sagt nej till att höja medlemsavgiften i EU, Vilket är bra, men samtidigt har Europaminister Terhos signal variant en helt anna, åtminstone har jag fått den uppfattningen. Regeringen verkar nu köra på två spår.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u36	Mr President! The overall level is too high, as I said and as the Prime Minister said, and of this the government's line is crystal clear. It will be brought down because many of the net contributor countries are dissatisfied with this level. This is a perfectly normal process for the Commission to first propose something that is just hypothetically high and then negotiate down, something that is realistic. As far as Finland's achievements are concerned in the future financial framework, that is not defined in advance when we are going through this process. It does not decide which country will receive it, but it will then take place on a country-by-country basis through the various programmes, so it is impossible to say in advance exactly what will be the net contributorship of which country in the coming financial framework period. Of course, Finland is trying to obtain as much funding as possible from the various EU programmes, and in this respect there are also good signs that it will also focus more strongly on the issues that Finland has specifically wanted there, such as security, such as cooperation in education, such as the management of immigration, which you would think would be a significant revenue item or expenditure item for another party here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u37	The Blue Parliamentary Group also has a similar question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u38	Mr President! The blue future is an EU-critical party. It is a good thing that we are in the government negotiating this, because another party here seems to have not even noticed that the negotiations have begun at all, but think that this was already there. But as Minister Terho said, this is the Commission's proposal and now we are beginning long negotiations to defend Finland's national interests, and I believe that its government will also do so. Our peer countries, such as Sweden, the Netherlands, have knocked this performance out. The Swedish Minister for Economic Affairs, Magdalena Andersson, called the proposal unreasonable for Sweden, and that is also the case for Finland. The long process of this obviously becomes that yes, the Blue Future will make it a parliamentary election theme, that this is not the kind of thing that the Finnish taxpayers' money is going to be put into. [Demand: Silly! — A commotion]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u39	Mr President! At this stage, preliminary estimates can be made, and if this Commission proposal, as I have emphasised several times, were to go through, it would mean an increase in billions of payments to Finland over the next seven years. However, in the negotiations, of course, we assume that nothing like this will happen, but that we are aiming for a much lower level of cost throughout the EU. Here we will receive strong support from those net contributors who are dissatisfied with this Commission proposal. Indeed, there is a long way to go in which there will be a debate between the net contributor countries and the net beneficiary countries, because those countries that are on the receiving side may be much more positive about this Commission proposal. Finland will strongly defend its national interests with the same-minded Member States, which are large enough. There is no sense of surrender here, but we are only at the beginning of a long process and it will be pursued decisively.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u40	The Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party has also called for the same issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u41	Madam President! Indeed, as Minister Terho has said, this additional decrease in Finland is up to 200 million per year, i.e. billions. There would certainly be a wide range of savings in the EU budget, but at the moment it seems that they have not been very sought out. There would also be room for improvement. Year after year, the EU Court of Auditors shows red as to how these common EU funds have been used. In what way does Finland now, in this situation, ensure that these cuts, which have been directed specifically at areas that are important to us, agriculture and also regional aid, do not seriously jeopardise the future of Finnish agriculture? How will we also ensure that the cohesion aid that is important to us in the sparsely populated regions of Eastern and Northern Finland, among others, can be taken into account and ensured in the future? Do we, at the moment, have a clear list of priorities for the government, with which we are going to defend these interests of our own in these difficult negotiations?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u42	Mr President! First of all, this first comment. STT reported: “Prime Minister Sipilä : the EU Commission’s budget proposal at a higher level than Finland’s. “ There is no contradiction in this matter. But for this agricultural and cohesion funding. When Commissioner Oettinger visited us, we made a clear priority of Finland's needs, where the priority mentions agriculture and mentions cohesion and, in particular, keeping the low population criterion in cohesion policy. These are our priorities, and in the end this net contribution will depend on how well we manage to achieve these objectives. That is what our work will be focusing on from now on. As far as this timetable is concerned, there was considerable doubt at the European Council that this European Parliament would be able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u43	Mr President! It will certainly take time to process this budget, and just as the Prime Minister suggested, it may be that Finland, as President of the EU in 2019, will be solving this big common issue of the EU budget, and that is why these positions, which you are taking, may also be relevant. It is not every cent that Finland pays and receives from the EU that is relevant; it is essential that we make a budget for Europe. What the EU is doing with this budget is essential. I often hear everyone say that the EU should do this to control the external border, that the EU should do this to increase development cooperation, or that the EU should develop a common defence that is important to us Finns – it is done with a common EU budget, and that is what we are now preparing here. President! Of course it is also important to ensure that Finland does not bear too much burden, and this draft budget was an interesting point in the development of the EU's own resources system, including a common corporate tax base, which would also curb tax competition. How do you feel about this, Prime Minister Sipilä?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u44	Mr President! This is indeed a lot of good for Europe as a whole, for example these new instruments, which are loan-based, of which Finland has good experiences, such as EFSI money for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. We also got the element we wanted here, that is, this conditionality. In other words, when the rule of law is violated, it can then affect cohesion funding. This was an important element. Education, product development, research and, as you said, defence is also provided for in the budget. There are a lot of things that have gone in the direction that Finland wants. But then Finland will have a more difficult share of this share of own resources, i.e. in practice different taxes in addition to customs on that EU budget, and Finland has taken these very cautiously. It would be if we were able to harmonise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u45	Mr President! Apart from the very last speeches, we must be surprised at this debate. Is it not now essential, in this respect, to what, together, is the added value of all of us countries and European people? That if we develop European defence together, if we are better able to control our external borders and thereby support internal security, if we promote the Erasmus programme and thereby increase the opportunities for our young people to study in Europe and increase the level of interaction in general, are these not all positive things? And a lot of other things that have been said here. So we need to think about what it is wise to do together and invest in it. The most amazing thing is that it is stated in the same speech that this is too expensive a solution, and there is concern that there will not be enough money for agriculture when agriculture is the biggest thing that Finland receives from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u48	Mr President! Of course, the budget should also be assessed on its practical side. The overall level is what is the first thing to look at in this Commission proposal as different from the positions and objectives of Finland. Then, as we have already said, there are also promising new priorities in this budget for the things you have mentioned, such as defence and also for research, student exchange and other cooperation in this area, which are just the core of the EU, why the Member States want to be part of the EU at all. It is, of course, important in the development of the EU that the Member States feel that they are getting value for money. This is the debate that always comes back to: when taxpayers' pockets are held, taxpayers must get value for money. According to Finland's views, the EU produces it from these priorities that I have highlighted, but this overall level is too high, and it is not in the interests of the Finnish taxpayer, and this will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u49	Madam President! The new CAP reform will give the national states more power of decision. This may make the financial framework easier. I note that Minister Leppä is not here, but I think it is vital that he has taken the message that agriculture must be preserved everywhere, that subsidies linked to production are important to us, and that he has taken the example of Finland as an example to others of how we can manage this consideration in common sense. I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: what has been done on the TEM side to promote a more rational use of cohesion funds? There, if anything, there must also be a reduction in red tape.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u50	Madam President! With regard to cohesion funding, I have now met five different Commissioners and several colleagues across Europe. It has been very nice to see that everyone has had a relatively much similar line. Cohesion funding must continue in all regions, but we must develop cohesion funding more in order to improve our competitiveness, that is, to improve European competitiveness, skills in relation to the USA, in relation to Asia. We are well aware that in Finland cohesion funding has been very well spent on funding universities and universities of applied sciences, and thus its approval is very high in Finland. However, all cohesion funding needs its own kind of reform to be accepted, and bureaucracy plays a very central role in that. Many project leaders feel that access to finance is too bureaucratic and therefore do not use it, i.e. reform for cohesion funding and thus efficiency for spending money.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u51	Since the Council of Presidents has just decided that a topical debate on this subject will take place next week in this Chamber, one more question will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u52	Mr President! In recent years, we in the EU have started to see more and more autocratic countries or countries moving in a more and more autocratic direction. Hungary and Poland are good examples of these countries. These countries silence their own media, reduce freedom of expression, the judiciary, NGOs are in a very bad place. There has been a lot of debate about the fact that there are more autocratic countries within the EU, how they should be affected, and the budget is one big issue in this regard. It is precisely this cohesion funding and the means to influence it that have been introduced as an alternative to bringing these countries in a more democratic direction. What are your options in this regard, Mr Finnish Government? Is it, for example, a reduction in cohesion funding for countries which do not respect democratic and European principles?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u53	Mr President! This Commission proposal contains a sentence which states that the Commission will propose a separate regulation to create conditionality between the reception and use of EU funds and respect for the rule of law. This aims to ensure the commitment of all Member States to respect the fundamental values of the EU, in particular the rule of law. As Finland, we have also supported this in various contexts and debates, and also in preparatory discussions this was our message to Commissioner Oettinge-ri.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u54	The next question — we will move on for a moment to the social and health reform — is the Green Parliamentary Group, represented by Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u55	Madam President! The child health clinic system is the crown jewel of the Finnish health care system. The clinic is a place where all families meet experienced and reliable support regardless of their pay, education or life situation. This is the core of our world-famous maternity clinic system. The clinic is a place where every Finn, all of us, has got a good start in life. The clinics allow children to participate in the national vaccination programme, support and counselling for parents, early detection of children’s illnesses and injuries. However, in the context of the social welfare reform, the government is now planning to privatise the maternity clinics in part by bringing them into the customer voucher. Private companies would therefore start providing maternity and maternity clinic services. The Ombudsman for Children and health care experts are shocked: why should a company address such sensitive issues as:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u56	Mr President! The representative of Aalto's assessment of the significance of the maternity clinics is certainly easy for all of us to agree with. It is the cornerstone of Finnish child policy and a direct success story. Therefore, the related reforms must be carried out with caution, but at the same time care must be taken to ensure that the maternity clinics stick to time and support for parenthood and support for the growth and development of the child, their tasks and up-to-date. Finnish nurses do a great job every day. In the Freedom of Choice Act, maternity and child health clinics are not compulsory for customer voucher services. They are discretionary services in the province, and if, Mrs. Aalto, you are familiar with that Act on Freedom of Choice and its impact assessments, the Government itself, in its own texts, estimates that it is very unlikely that this would be a service to which the provinces would target customer vouchers. That is why I hope that this question will not be unnecessarily intimidated. I am not aware, Mr President, of any province,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u57	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u58	Mr President! If this is as Minister Saarikko pointed out, why do you not restrict the customer voucher from the maternity clinic services, as has been done with regard to school health care? [of the Socialist Group: Right! ] No one knows about the effects of wars on people's lives and lives. Child health clinics are just one example of this. The change in the maternity clinic would require a thorough examination of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health because of its importance, but the chaotic — I repeat: chaotic — timetable prevents this. The timetable for dealing with the whole of the war is very incomprehensible, as the opposition as a whole pointed out in its joint statement. Preparation is urgent, experts are not consulted or listened to. There will be no good in slumping, and it will be necessary to give parliamentarians the opportunity to do their job well, to give them the opportunity to hear the experts without the kind of rush that hinders good legislative work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u59	Mr President! The Government has brought the proposals to Parliament, in fact the majority of the laws relating to this province, the social reform, more than a year ago. The Act on Freedom of Choice was in the Council of State in early March. From then on, in the hands of Parliament, there is the desire and the way in which the motion is dealt with here. I know that ministerial officials work day and night to support the work of the committee with their expertise and to answer the committee's questions. For that work, I give great thanks and value to this, yes, in dealing with a large and demanding whole. As a member of the committee at the time, Mrs Aalto, in fact last year, when the reform was discussed for the first time, I know that the advisory services were being processed and, in fact, precisely because of the fact that this proposal, which has now been brought to Parliament, is in a different position. It is now discretionary within the customer voucher, and according to its own impact assessments it is not included in customer voucher services
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u60	The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party also has a question about social affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u61	Mr President! Safety and continuity of care are important factors for human well-being. These are particularly highlighted in the services and care housing of disabled or elderly people. Changes in the social and health care reform are expected to improve the situation of people with disabilities and other groups with high service needs through personal budgets and the introduction of customer vouchers. They have the potential to increase the self-determination and freedom of a person. This major change in organisation is one of the gems of social welfare reform that will improve the position of special groups and customers who need a lot of services in the system. It puts people at the centre and can provide services based on their own needs. This is an excellent step towards more customer-oriented services. I ask, Minister Saarikko: can the future reform of social and regional services ensure the continuity of care housing for people with disabilities and the elderly without the uncertainty created by the current competitive situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u62	Mr President! A part of our national legislation, originally based on the EU, makes services competitive when their euro-denominated amount exceeds a certain threshold, has been a matter that has spoken to Parliament throughout the period. I believe that this has been justified because we know that the possibility of tendering and the procurement law have not been used in the best possible way by those responsible who now provide services, in practice, for example in municipalities. In itself, there is nothing wrong with tendering and procurement law itself, but I absolutely agree with the opinion of the representative that the possibility of providing services as a tool under the Freedom of Choice Act is strengthened more by the choice made by the user of the services, such as the disabled person and his/her loved ones together, who produces the services to which the person is considered entitled — and yes, it also allows for longer periods of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u63	Mr President! Yes, this is a run from responsibility now. The law allows for the transfer of maternity clinics to the market. In fact, when I read the section where the maternity clinics are listed as one, that section is one for you—mulle. It shows the political trade, and there are also maternity clinics. I must say that, for example, the difficulties of breast - feeding, the ability of parents to cope and the concerns about the development of the child are best taken seriously at the moment they come. In this case, additional visits are required, in contrast to the standard visit order of the maternity and child health clinic. In the case of a customer voucher, these additional visits should always be applied for because the customer voucher is only specified for certain services. Is the parent in the baby blues able to apply for additional visits to the maternity clinic when he needs help? He can't do it. How on earth did this come about? All I ask is, Minister Saarikko: why are the maternity clinics placed at the mercy of the market?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u64	Mr President! I may be opening up more broadly the basis of the Freedom of Choice Act, as you are now referring to a single form of service. It is true that it is stated that ‘in customer voucherservices in such a service district ‘—long list —’which,when a province wishes to consider,can also beprovided with a customer voucher’,a whole service or some part of it. As the representative rightly points out, the maternity clinic service is more than just annual or monthly regular checks or monitoring the growth of the fetus. It is, for example, parental support and cross-sectoral service. But in my opinion, as I told you here about the preparation, the majority of the regions — I understand everything — are based on the idea that this service is regarded as a public service, precisely because it is now seen as an effective service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u65	We have time to take one more question, the question of the Left Alliance delegation. Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u66	Mr President! Yesterday in Helsingin Sanomat, an anonymous government official wrote about aggressive lobbying of private companies to privatise employment services. The Government wants to place employment services on the market more widely, even though the research evidence does not support the idea of superiority of private services. The Act on growth services related to regional reform is now under discussion in the Parliament, and employment services are also part of it. Today, however, the government has adopted a separate urgent bill on the privatisation of employment services. The question arises as to whether the government itself no longer even believes in its own regional reform, as privatisation is now being speeded up with a separate urgent bill of law. Is the privatisation of employment services such an important objective that it should be brought to Parliament by means of a legislative proposal separate from the urgent reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u67	Madam President! Indeed, the first HE of growth services, the government proposal, was presented here in Parliament by Minister Lintilä, and I was also involved in that debate. In the course of that debate, these content laws and financial laws were backed up here in order to be able to hold a proper debate. Well, now that we bring more of this stuff here as a matter of urgency, that's a bad thing. The second question here is this troll of privatisation. It is not the government that is pushing for any privatisation, but that the services for the unemployed are improving. There is privatisation, there is public service and there is a third sector, and the combination of these creates the whole idea of the growth service: that the unemployed will receive the best service in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u68	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Sarkkinen continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u69	Mr President! This bill, adopted today, is not a law on the content of regional reform, but a law that ensures that employment services can be privatised even if the regional reform does not take place. But let's stick to the truth now. Mr President! There are no grounds for privatisation of employment services in the Government's own draft Act on Growth Services. The proposal states that outsourcing of employment services generally does not seem to lead to the desired efficiency gains. The real problem with employment services is the under-measured resources and unemployment-sucking systems that the government is not correcting. On the other hand, it is expected that cuts will be made in the management of employment when services are transferred to the provinces, because social costs will increase as a result of the reform of the government and will take the money from the provinces. Mr President! I would like to ask: how will the legal protection of the jobseeker be ensured in a system in which private companies are responsible for the person's employment service process which affects his or her employment policies?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u70	Madam President! This is quite a gloomy intimidation that the Left Alliance is engaged in in relation to the services of the unemployed. This is precisely what we are looking for. If anyone believes that employment services are currently working perfectly, then fine, may be of the opinion, but they do not work, and therefore reform is being made to make them work better so that the unemployed and those in need of the labour force can get better services. This is a pointless confrontation to intimidate privatisation. And we need results here and now, that is why we bring these things urgently so that they move forward faster — so that the unemployed will benefit in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u71	Mr President! When the content laws were called for in this Chamber, it was precisely the Business and Employment Services Act, which is the content to which the Growth Services Act creates the frame, and the Finance Act, which is completely missing. And the big problem with this whole thing is that we are starting to have the whole social package together, even though it is still not as a whole, but the growth service sector, which has already fallen short, is completely fragmented. Now we are in a hurry to pilots and the framework of the Growth Services Act, but we have no idea what is going to happen with regard to the incentive of funding, what is going to happen with the public employment and business services, and that is the big worry. Private services may well be complementary to public employment services, but I would like to ask whether the Minister is aware that when we are looking for results from the private sector, we are, for example, in the process of creating situations where integration is paid to ensure that the customer gets into employment as quickly as possible. Good so far, but if there's a company on the other side that integrates,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u72	Mr President! Mr Filatov has made a sound speech. Exactly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u75	Mr President! It is great that the Minister for Labour now admits that there are not enough services for the unemployed in Finland. I remember when we were discussing the active model here in December whether the whole government thought that the services of the unemployed were enough for any unemployed person, wherever he lives in Finland, to be able to demonstrate by taking part in the services of the unemployed, that he is active. So, what happened now? There has been a SAK study, there have been several studies by Kela which show that the services of the unemployed are really not sufficient throughout Finland and that the Finnish unemployed are in a very unequal position as to whether or not the services of the unemployed exist in their locality. Both the SAK study and Kela statistics have shown that these services are insufficient. Do these reports not show that you should simply withdraw this active model of the unemployed, which merely disciplines and punishes people who try to show that they are active in every way? They will therefore be cut unemployment benefit even if they have done their best to find employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u76	Madam President! This does not indicate that the active model should be withdrawn, but shows that we are doing the work that Parliament has required of us. We have decided to increase additional resources
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u77	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 4/2018 vp. The chairman of the committee, Mr Kiuru, will present the report, and then we will go on to the list of speakers for a while and only be debated a little later.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u78	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. There is a serious issue here regarding both human dignity, self-determination, good treatment and valuable death. The citizens' initiative proposes that legislative measures be taken to establish the law on euthanasia and legalise euthanasia in Finland. This initiative sets out criteria for allowing euthanasia to take place in situations where treatment of an incurable terminally ill patient is not sufficient to alleviate his intolerable suffering and a well-functioning adult patient makes a deliberate and voluntary request for euthanasia. The citizens' initiative also emphasises very high levels of palliative care and hospice care, as well as adequate access to treatment throughout Finland. Mr President! Euthanasia usually refers to speeding up the death of a patient with terminal terminal illness with the help of a doctor, in accordance with his own will. The committee has heard very different views on the consequences of adopting euthanasia. There has been a common view that the patient’s will should be taken into account in the treatment. However, it is clear that euthanasia is also a broad issue of value, and therefore the positions also vary a great deal. The variety of positions on this serious issue is also illustrated by various studies, namely that the committee has also wanted to bring some examples to the debate in Parliament. Firstly, there is broad public support for euthanasia in various opinion polls. While almost half of the medical community seems to be in favour of allowing euthanasia, there is clearly less support for euthanasia among doctors treating dying patients. The Committee notes, therefore, that the trend seems to be in the direction of euthanasia, but, on the other hand, there has been much less support for those involved in hospice care. However, the studies have been limited and cannot be reliably drawn from them. The committee also examined the criminal law problems of the current legislation. Aiding in Finland to commit suicide is not, in principle, a punishable act. However, there may be problems with the application of the Criminal Code in drawing the border at the request of a person to be punished for killing and assisting in suicide. It should also be noted that the professional ethical responsibilities of health care staff and the acceptable medical practice actually affect the borderline. Mr President! In addition to euthanasia, there has been a broad review of the implementation of palliative care in the committee. According to the reports received, this treatment is incomplete in Finland. While recent recommendations for palliative care and hospice care from 2017 have been issued to support equality and quality of treatment, unfortunately the studies received show that there are gaps in the data of nurses and doctors, especially in the face of a dying patient and in the treatment of pain and other symptoms, which also underlines the importance of training in improving the quality of care. However, these are serious messages that a person could also die with dignity. The Committee considers it important that palliative care and hospice care are implemented in a high-quality manner throughout the country and that the regulation on palliative care be improved in order to achieve good care. Mr President! The debate that the citizens' initiative has sparked is needed. There is a need for careful ethical evaluation and follow-up on issues such as fundamental rights, criminal law and the status of healthcare personnel. The question of whether new regulation or other measures are needed to ensure the good care and self-determination of an incurable patient in the final stages of life remains open in this committee's work. This is justified by the fact that these reports are still incomplete enough to require further analysis in order to ensure that this important issue and the spirit of the citizens' initiative are assured that progress can be made. In the view of the committee, the need for legislation on the treatment and euthanasia of dying people should be assessed once these studies have been carried out. The committee's proposal for a decision on this citizens' initiative is that the committee technically rejects the citizens' initiative but points out that, in its actual spirit, a unanimous statement has been made which is reflected in the committee's report. The statement therefore supports the establishment of a broad-based expert group to identify the regulatory needs of end-of-life care and hospice care and euthanasia. In this respect, the committee also agrees that the regulatory needs for both euthanasia and for the care of the whole of the dying person should be clarified. This proposal is unanimous and this broad-based group of experts will then make proposals for legislative changes when the time comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u79	First of all, let us go to the list of speakers for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u80	Mr President! There are different views on the functioning of Parliament and politics. However, I believe that we have made some progress when the committee adopts a unanimous report on such a difficult and painful subject as euthanasia. The Social Affairs and Health Board therefore proposes to reject the citizens' initiative. In addition, a statement on the establishment of an expert working group is proposed. I would like to thank the committee and the chairman of the committee, Mr Kiuru, for having listened extensively to the experts. I believe that the right solution has been found here for everyone. This citizens' initiative has done a good job in raising the status of hospice care to public debate. Mr President! I would also like to remind you of what euthanasia has led to in some countries. In the Netherlands, suicide mortality has increased by about 35% since euthanasia was permitted. This can happen when society accepts deliberate killing. A study in Belgium found that half of the euthanasia is committed without reporting. 87% of this is done without a written request from a patient required by law. Killing a person against his will is the worst possible crime against self-determination. It is not worth taking a step in this direction in Finland. In fact, the elderly are already treated in part as an expense item. Would the right to die be an obligation to die? This must not happen to any elderly or sick person in Finland. No one should be afraid that relatives may hope to take a poison syringe. In Oregon, for example, 55 percent of assisted suicides are made by people who fear that they are a burden to their loved ones. This is official state statistics. Mr President! The committee's proposal respects fundamental rights. No one is to be killed intentionally. The performance also respects the 2400-year-old tradition of respecting life by doctors. The Finnish Medical Association, the Standing Committee of European Doctors, the World Medical Association and the World Health Organization are opposed to euthanasia. I think we have reason to appreciate the fact that under no circumstances does a doctor want to take life. According to a survey by the Medical Association, 83% of hospice doctors were not in favour of allowing euthanasia. I don't think they're indifferent to the patient's pain, though. However, I believe that doctors can see beyond the surface. Pain and death are never easy or light things. However, it is not worth looking for too simple answers, as such answers can lead to even greater difficulties. However, medical solutions are better than ever before. Shortness of breath, cancer pain and other pains can now be treated very well, but not all patients have access to this knowledge. We must do everything we can to ensure that it is. We need both more training and more resources. In recent times, different measures have been taken. I hope that the setting up of an expert group could bring further progress. It is therefore an important task for the group to assess the adequacy of good management and funding. Finally, I would like to say that I hope that Finland will never be in the same state as the Netherlands. The lives of sick and old people no longer have the same value. Several ministers have even proposed death support for all the elderly who want it. Age limits of 70 or 75 years have been discussed. Finland does not need the Dutch way. Every human life in Finland must be of equal value. Mr President! There's one more thing I have to say. Mr Heinonen's proposal to enact the Euthanasia Act, contrary to the unanimous motion of every party in the committee, amazes me. I know, Mr Heinonen, that you are diligent in taking a stand on this matter. Now, however, it seems that you are willing to risk the reliability of health care, the well-being of people, and even someone’s life for a moment of publicity. Legalising killing is not such a light thing that it should be promoted in this way. The committee has chosen its line after consulting experts, and that is the right line. Even in very limited cases, there are so many problems with the legalisation of killing that no one knows about that road. We should allow hospice professionals and workers to focus on improving hospice care. It is a priority, it is right, it is decent.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u81	Congressman Räsänen. — And it is good that we stick to the proper language.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u82	Mr President! I would like to thank the committee for its thorough examination of the citizens' initiative, which has resulted in the proposal to reject this initiative and the proposal to set up a working group of experts. I consider this to be the right and constructive line. I would also like to say at this stage that I am not in favour of that statement on behalf of Mrs Heinonen, who has been distributed to the tables, which would require the Government to take legislative measures to legislate on euthanasia and legalise euthanasia. But it is a good thing that the committee's report is unanimous, and I believe that it has indeed been decided on a very solid basis and on the basis of consultation with experts. That report highlights what the President has also pointed out here that the level of hospice care is not everywhere what it should be, and unfortunately it varies. However, this should not lead to the conclusion that euthanasia is the right solution to these problems at the end of life. It would be quite remarkable if we were to have the euthanasia law and at the same time be without the hospice law, without the legislation that justifies good hospice care. At the beginning of last year, there was a survey of doctors treating patients who were dying, and more than 70% of these experts wanted a hospice law, and I hope that this message will be taken seriously in the expert group there. In hospice, pain is not, surprisingly, the main problem, and in fact the means to control it are there, as long as they are used and used. There are only a small number of dying patients in Finland who suffer from particularly difficult treatments, and they can have so-called palliative sedation, which does not mean euthanasia. In this palliative sedation, the level of consciousness is calculated medically to the extent necessary to control symptoms, either intermittently or continuously, right there in the last stages of life. In Finland, about 100 people a year receive palliative sedation. It can be used to deal with this so-called intolerable suffering, and there is a way. Sedation can be awakened, and studies show that it does not shorten even the life expectancy of man. Hospice treatment is based on a good treatment of physical symptoms, comprehensive consideration of human needs, and even if not all symptoms have been eliminated, many fears have been dispelled and the desire to speed up death has been abandoned when the last days of human hospice have been perceived to be worth living. The Euthanasia Act would mean giving society the right to touch the individual's spirit, and this would be a radical change in the ethics of health care. Its arguments would then be undermined. It must be borne in mind that there are no exceptions to euthanasia in international agreements, such as the UN and the European Conventions on Human Rights. A legislative proposal to allow euthanasia would mean that doctors, as a profession, would be obliged to put an end to the lives of patients selectively and to take responsibility for this. [ Hustles from the left] Euthanasia does not use the medicines used for hospice — this is a fairly common misunderstanding — and hospice does not use the substances used for euthanasia in the Netherlands, for example. Instead, the same substances are used in execution procedures in the United States, for example. It's the same stuff. Mr President! I would like to return to this citizens' initiative: it would limit the freedom of conscience of doctors even more than in the Netherlands, for example, because the citizens' initiative would require the doctor to be obliged to refer the patient to another doctor if he did not accept euthanasia. The fundamental values of medical ethics are respect for life and humanity, the promotion of health, the avoidance of harm to the patient, and the obligation to relieve suffering cannot lead to an obligation or the right to kill the patient, to stop the patient’s life. The World Medical Association and also the Finnish Medical Association see that euthanasia is an ethically untenable act and it should not be imposed by law or allowed by anyone to do so. We see that in the Netherlands this so-called escalating surface has been realised as euthanasia spreads to more and more vulnerable groups of people, such as children, demented, mental health problems and so on. For example, disability organisations in Finland have been concerned about this. Argument of individual self-determination is not sustainable when it is required that the evaluation and decision on euthanasia is ultimately taken by doctors. There is no unambiguous and firm definition of intolerable suffering as a basis for euthanasia and, as has happened in the Netherlands, it is easy to extend the concept of euthanasia.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u83	However, let us take this list of speakers for a while. According to the information I have received, the Minister will be taking part in the near future, and then it will be good for us to have that debate, at the latest. But for a while now, this list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u84	Mr President! We are dealing with a citizens' initiative on euthanasia. I believe that we all share the same will and hope that everyone can have a good and dignified death when the time comes — but that does not mean that it comes through euthanasia. Since I know that people have different knowledge and different perceptions of what euthanasia means, I am opening up the euthanasia concept here: euthanasia refers to drugs deliberately committed by a doctor to kill a patient by giving him a recurring voluntary request for legal capacity. Why has the euthanasia debate become topical right now? In our present society, death is no longer present in the same way as it has been in the past, when the majority of deaths earlier occurred at home. Today, instead of dying in the family circle, people die in institutions, 70% of deaths are now in institutions. More and more death has been delegated to institutions — out of sight, out of mind, so to speak. Human beings are increasingly subject to legislation and political guidance. In countries where people die surrounded by their families, death is seen as a natural part of the life cycle, and there is no need for euthanasia conversations in those countries. It is also now possible to influence the time of death by means of medicine, such as stopping treatment or not starting treatment. Medical solutions that affect the patient’s life expectancy are made every day throughout Finland in social welfare and health care. In this case, it is precisely what is the best treatment for each patient. Almost always it is not the most effective treatment, but it is a treatment that takes into account the overall situation of the patient, the nature of the disease, the prognosis and the patient’s will condition. The solutions in these are not unambiguous and easy either. As far as possible, the red thread is always the patient’s own wish if he is able to decide on his condition. If he is not in that condition, then there will be discussions with family and loved ones. Even then, the starting point is always the treatment that is medically and ethically justified. Experience of suffering is always a subjective experience. It can be measured with different indicators, but in the end it is subjective, everyone's own experience. There are many good ways of alleviating the suffering of the patient, as Mr Räsänen has pointed out here. Good palliative and hospice treatment is one that takes into account a person as a whole. It is not just medicine; hospice treatment is more than mere treatment of medicines and pain. Society's ethics are life-saving. Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights states that every person's life must be protected by law, and no one should be deliberately deprived of his life. The Council of Europe has condemned euthanasia. Article 7 of the Finnish Constitution defines that everyone has the right to life, personal liberty and integrity, and Article 22 For its part, public authority must ensure the implementation of fundamental rights and human rights. The World Medical Association, the Standing Committee of European Doctors and Finland The Medical Association condemns euthanasia as unethical. Euthanasia is contrary to the ethics and fundamental values of a doctor, such as respect for life, humanity, ethics, professionalism. I would like to mention a few aspects of euthanasia, so that we can also think about its multidimensional nature. Firstly, the impact of euthanasia on society: Would death as a standard of good death be assisted? How long do you get to die? Is a dying patient less worthy than someone who needs active treatment? Should we speed things up with euthanasia?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u87	Ärade talman, Mr President! In the autumn of 2016, the citizens' initiative for good death collected the 50,000 more names needed in just over five weeks and then 13000 more before they decided to collect the names. The initiative has now been examined by committee, a report has been produced and it is gradually time for the actual conclusions to be drawn. Too often the debate on euthanasia stumbles at the fact that we cannot keep apart what euthanasia really means and wants and what it does not mean and does not want. Putting Euthanasia against hospice treatment is an example of the wrong approach. It is a question of both- and-situation, not of either-or-or. So we need legal, even better hospice treatment for those who want better hospice at the end of their lives, and we need the right to euthanasia for those for whom hospice is not the option, but euthanasia is the alternative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u90	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing here today with a citizens' initiative which proposes allowing euthanasia to be allowed in situations where the treatment of a terminally ill patient is not sufficient to alleviate his intolerable suffering and a well-functioning adult patient makes a deliberate and voluntary request for euthanasia. Thank you very much to the authors of this citizens' initiative. This is an important initiative and it is also an important one. It's signed by over 63,000 citizens. It is a great thing that this initiative is in this Chamber openly in the debate. I am a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I must say that it was a painful long time to deal with this initiative, but fortunately we have now completed this report. Mr President! I haven't written a speech since I thought I'd talk like that how I feel. I think if we had the hospice issues in order, perhaps we would not have to talk about euthanasia, or vice versa. I see that euthanasia and hospice are two different things, but they are linked by pain, combined with death and the fact that everything can be done is done and nothing can be done anymore. In those moments, in that situation, there is intolerable suffering for some people, and in those situations I see and feel that the person who cannot be helped by medical means has the right to express his will to stop suffering. I am in favour of euthanasia. I am also in favour of good hospice treatment. In connection with the bill, I have made provision for a law on hospice care in Finland. Since last season, 2011-2015, I have done some 20 different measures in relation to the development of hospice care. There have been written questions, there have been policy initiatives, there have been budget initiatives, and now there is this bill. I've been hoping that when you make a sound, the voice will carry and things will move forward. I would like to thank the government for allocating EUR 1 million to the development of hospice care in Finland for this year. I've been working on hospice myself, 24 years in old people's care. It has seen and experienced things, it has seen good successes, it has seen very bad failures, and they have remained in mind forever. Mr President! When there is probably nothing to give to this question, how would I want to die, if there is a disease for which there is no medicine — and there are conditions that do not have proper pain relief, there are such cancers, it was also in expert reports, there is no — yes, the person himself — think for himself, and this is what I think in those situations when the person himself says that I want to have no suffering — the voice must be heard. And as a nurse, I personally feel that the job of a nurse is to ease the basic care very far, to do everything in my power to make a person feel good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u93	Madam President! Today we are on a very important and serious issue, and I too would like to thank the authors of this citizens' initiative. Each of us has the right to a good and dignified death. As has already been well demonstrated in this debate so far, much work has been done in Finland in recent decades and even in recent years to ensure that we know how to deal with the professionals but also, more widely in society, to meet the dying person and give him the best care possible. Here, too, the chairman of the committee stated in his presentation that new guidelines and recommendations had been made. Of course, these are not enough, but a lot of training and advice is needed to ensure that these recommendations are then translated into real work, a respectful activity in the everyday life, and it is good that this citizens' initiative has led to a very wide and open debate on this serious, partly difficult subject. Although work has been done on development and the promotion of recommendations, it is important to note the fact that the committee's report also points out that we still have serious deficiencies in hospice care, in its high level of implementation across the country. In addition to this, it is important and good to recognise that all pain, all suffering, despite good treatment, cannot be eliminated. It is therefore quite understandable that many citizens, probably many of the signatories to this citizens' initiative, are concerned about the care of their loved ones as well as their own future, that they could leave without great pain and suffering. Therefore, we here in Parliament also have a responsibility to have a proper and thorough debate on this issue. Mr President, I did find it a little confusing that the terms used in this debate have already been such as ‘killing’ and that it has been established that there is a need for a European civil society to be given the opportunity to kill its own citizens. I find these choices of words regrettable, given that the basis for this debate is a very factual and unanimous report from the committee. I would also like to ask that if, then, in this Chamber, you insist on using these terms on this serious matter, where will you forget your own self-determination? In my view, reference was also partly made to the European Court of Human Rights and its positions, when the committee's report itself states that the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights have considered that Article 2 of the Convention on Human Rights, namely the right to life, does not prevent Member States from adopting euthanasia. It is good to bring out both points of view and not just half the truth. Mr President! I would also like to underline the point which has already been raised here in Mrs Wallin's speech, which is also reflected in this committee's report, and that is that there is broad public support for euthanasia in various polls, and I believe that this also obliges us to conduct this debate constructively in front of this Chamber. Mr President! Of course, it is quite clear that this issue is not a light issue at all, it is not a light issue at all, and I think it is also evident from this report by the committee. Such a serious issue calls for a very careful ethical assessment. In previous speeches here, we have already looked at the possible problems of euthanasia, and I believe that all these issues are exactly what should then be covered in this possible investigation. But I think it is quite impossible for us, as representatives of the Finnish people here in Parliament, to say to the suffering person who wishes euthanasia that we cannot allow you to do this when there are so many problematic points, the possibility of abuse and many other problems. I consider it impossible for me to say it to a person who hopes for a merciful end. This would be a disregard for one’s own firm desire and a misinterpretation of sovereignty. Therefore, Mr President, we have a proposal from Mr Heinonen which, in my view, takes this issue forward more quickly than that of the committee's report, and I will therefore support the proposal that Mr Heinonen has presented to the tables.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u94	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank the citizens' initiative for a valuable initiative. This is a very serious and important issue and a debate on such a sensitive subject is not easy. For my part, I try to choose my words with thoughtfulness and respect. Everyone deserves a dignified and merciful death. At the moment, it's not going to happen. In order to achieve this, it should be ensured that high-quality hospice care is available to all throughout Finland when it is needed and allow euthanasia. I see that euthanasia and hospice should not be contrasted. Euthanasia is the last choice that belongs to each of us. It is for him who is dying of an incurable illness and for whom the rest would inevitably be suffering. By providing for a high-quality Euthanasia law, we can ensure that the choice is always a free choice for a person and that no one is put before it against his will. But just as important is that quality and optimal hospice care is available throughout the country for all those who need it. We need a hospice law, and it is incomprehensible that we do not have one, but now there seems to be a consensus in the Chamber on the importance of its adoption. I believe that this citizens' initiative sets out good and very strict criteria for access to euthanasia. Of course, the most important criterion is the patient's own will and repeated request. In addition, the patient must be of age and full capacity to make the decision not to suffer from mental health problems, for example, which could impair judgment. He should have an incurable illness that brings death near and suffers intolerable pains that are not medically assisted. At a point like this, I hope that a person can choose a safe euthanasia. This citizens' initiative provides a good basis for preparing new legislation. We can also respond in a qualitative and good way to the concerns that have been expressed here so that it cannot be used against its purpose and can ensure that it is a person's own, well thought-out decision and that it takes place under control and when the time comes. But doctors and all medical personnel must also be provided with adequate training and support to meet a dying person. Medical education is not automatically a guarantee that in the best way possible you can meet a person and his loved ones at the sensitive moment of death. We need the hospice law, but we also need the euthanasia law. I believe that the greatest respect for life is not to force anyone into unnecessary suffering. There is suffering, for which we unfortunately do not have medical assistance. I don't see the value of the patient being able to suffer as long as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u95	Mr President! Death is perhaps the most difficult thing in human life, and it is also a difficult thing for society. At the same time, however, death is a natural part of life, our destiny. Society must guarantee people the opportunity to die with mercy and dignity. At present, however, the Finnish health system is not sufficiently prepared for the needs of the dying patient and his/her loved ones. Finland needs both better hospice care and euthanasia. A better, all - dying hospice system is needed to ensure the best possible and most valuable end-stage care and pain relief for all dying people. Doctors and medical staff should be better equipped to meet the dying and help the dying person. However, hospice does not solve the situations where euthanasia is needed when the possibilities of hospice are exhausted and the person himself wants to end his suffering. To this end, euthanasia law is needed as proposed by the citizens' initiative: strict criteria and careful drafting of legislation. Euthanasia is a matter of the deathly ill patient's own request to be freed from intolerable pains. Euthanasia is the realization of man’s own free will in a situation where life can no longer be expected except pain and despair. I do not think that the legislator should prevent this human will from being carried out. I think it is unethical to deny the firm will of a suffering person on the grounds that this is a difficult matter. Euthanasia always happens only at the patient’s own request, and no one can ask for it on behalf of any other person. Euthanasia will be obtained, and no one will go against their own will if the legislation is good. It is basically a question of human self-determination and respect for human will. The committee's report is diverse and quite good. However, I do not see that Parliament can circumvent its responsibilities and push the euthanasia decision of the citizens' initiative behind the work of the expert group. Parliament must take a position on the adoption of the euthanasia law on the basis of the citizens' initiative now, so I support the table proposal, which is likely to be presented here shortly. Mr President! I would also like to express my thanks to those who took the initiative. This important issue has finally been brought before Parliament and the Chamber. The initiative also has the support of the majority of the people. I hope that this initiative will now also receive the support of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u96	Madam President! Dear fellow Members and good citizens' initiatives, former representatives Lax and Seppänen! Thank you also to the former representatives of Soininvaara, Taipalee and Viinanen, who have been working on this citizens' initiative. I hope that my conscience will also be respected in this Chamber, and that is why I have wanted to take this opportunity to say that I have long thought that we need this type of legislation in Finland, as experienced former representatives have suggested in the citizens' initiative. This citizens' initiative collected a large number of signatures for a good death. In their citizens' initiative, they say that the Euthanasia Act is needed to add an alternative to the rest of life to those of our fellow citizens who do not receive adequate relief from their intolerable suffering, even from good palliative care. I personally do not see this in any way as a contradiction between hospice treatment or euthanasia. I'm in favour of both. Personally, I want a good law on hospice care in this country, but in my opinion, as the authors of the initiative say, it is good and right for people to be this option as well. They note that it is important to ensure, alongside the adoption of the law, that municipalities and/or hospital districts and future provinces are obliged to organise this hospice care and that they are available comprehensively throughout Finland. This citizens' initiative goes through these various steps required to implement euthanasia in a very detailed way: If other treatments are not sufficient to alleviate the suffering of a dying person, they propose that euthanasia be allowed in Finland when several criteria are met. These include intolerable physical and mental symptoms, pain and suffering, which cannot be significantly alleviated by good hospice or palliative therapy and medical means, or the patient suffers from incurable fatal disease and death in the near future without euthanasia. The patient’s condition must be medically hopeless, without any hope of healing. The patient is also legal, adult and cognitively competitive. The doctor has informed the patient about the situation, prognosis and available treatment options. The patient himself has made a voluntary, deliberate and repeated request for mercy killing, and the decision has not been made as a result of outside pressure. The doctor has discussed this euthanasia request with the patient several times and is convinced that the patient’s request is of a lasting nature. The doctor and the patient both agree that there are no other meaningful alternatives to the patient’s condition. The doctor is convinced that the patient is not suffering from a psychiatric illness that weakens his judgment. Clinical depression should always be treated before any decision on euthanasia is made. The doctor has consulted at least one impartial doctor who must also meet and evaluate the patient’s condition personally. The doctor will perform the euthanasia properly, will be present until the patient’s death and will again be required to report the euthanasia to a monitoring body established for that purpose, to which he will have to provide detailed information on the reasons for the euthanasia decision, on the implementation of euthanasia and on any other event information as specified in the law. Doctors or medical staff should not be obliged to participate in euthanasia. If a doctor wishes to refuse euthanasia, he should refer the patient to a doctor who is ready to do so when the criteria are met. No one can and cannot make a euthanasia decision for anyone else. They state in the explanatory statement: ‘The number of people who may be expected annually to be subject to the criteria proposed Otherwise, everyone will soon be dying of a disease that even the best medical expertise can not cure. When there is no alternative, the euthanasia will enable them to have a good death by speeding it up. When medical means of pain relief have been exhausted and our fellows suffer from their own free will and, according to their own firm determination, death aid, euthanasia literally means good death for them.” This is written by the citizens' initiative makers, and this has been signed by a large number of Finns. Also, before the last election, the majority of MPs in the electoral machine expressed their full or some agreement on allowing euthanasia in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u101	Well, it looks like we're hoping for a debut, so I'm gonna open a debate. Those who wish to speak in the debate will press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u102	Madam President! I appreciate the valuable consideration given to the citizens' initiative in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I appreciate the fact that we have reached a unanimous position on it, even though we have already spoken in committee, as has been the case here. — We have no personal knowledge of the experiences of the end of life. What we are now deciding is that the citizens' initiative is precisely aimed at helping our fellow citizens to die at the moment they choose, and I do not think that it is in line with the unanimous position of the committee, but that we should go ahead and evaluate it. This statement, too, assumes that, as a matter of priority, we must legislate on euthanasia and assess hospice care and its structure. It is precisely hospice treatment that is lacking on a uniform basis. We do not have training programmes in primary education. We do not have further training programmes for the uniform implementation of hospice care; we do not have the resources to do so. The citizens' initiative also started from the point of view that the first step should be to organise:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u103	Mr President! The committee consulted extensively both for and against the experts. I think the conclusion that further careful ethical reflection and evaluation is needed is very good. I believe that the expert group will be able to identify regulatory needs in terms of both euthanasia and hospice care. It is clear that the varying levels and resources of hospice care and the training of care staff are challenges that must be met as quickly as possible in order to guarantee a dignified death throughout our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u104	Madam President! Euthanasia is a very personal matter, as we have heard here today. I myself am in favour of euthanasia, but I am also behind this statement by our committee. We heard widely in committee from various experts, all of whom were very competent, good, and the hearings were of high quality. However, there was no common view of euthanasia. High-quality hospice therapy received strong support from everyone. That is why I am very pleased that we have received a joint statement which clearly illustrates our preparations for both euthanasia and hospice care. I personally take this statement very seriously and do not consider it to be trivial, but I want a clear message from Parliament that this work of inquiry will be done in a high-quality and good manner and that it will then be assessed whether we need euthanasia and how hospice care will be improved in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u105	Mr President! Death touches all of us. The citizens' initiative Euthanasia has brought a serious and painful issue to the debate, and it is a very good thing that this is being discussed. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has dealt with this issue in a wide range of ways. The report has been drawn up on the basis of a broad consultation of experts. I support this report, which has been adopted unanimously. Pain relief and hospice treatment must be as complete as it is possible with modern methods at all. I myself have been in the nursing business as an X-ray nurse and an elderly nurse, and I have seen and experienced a lot of human pain and death through it. At the moment, I would not be prepared to support euthanasia. But since this is what the report says and I hope that there will be a working group, an expert group that will deal with this in a comprehensive way, then I am ready to reconsider. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u106	Madam President! Let's talk about a very serious and emotional issue. Good and, in my opinion, well-founded contributions have been used for and against this debate. I am not going to judge or criticise the opinions of my colleagues, for I believe that everyone is right with their own opinion. I therefore believe that I too am entitled to my own opinion. Mr President! I think life is a gift from God. What God has given man as a gift has no right to take away. Therefore, Mr President, I am against euthanasia in all its forms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u108	Madam President! I am grateful to the draftsmen and authors of the citizens' initiative, because I think it is very important that we have an ethical debate in Parliament on the euthanasia issue. I think that it is not possible to reject the issue of euthanasia and that running away from it is cowardice. The development of medical and medical technology will ensure that we cannot evade the ethical issue of euthanasia in the future. I believe that it is necessary to clarify the conditions for regulating euthanasia by law and to develop hospice care. However, hospice and euthanasia are separate issues because even the highest quality hospice treatment is not always enough. I am in favour of the right of a person to decide his own death when it is possible — not always so. I myself am one of those who have had to stand by and watch their loved ones suffer for months in the face of inevitable death, in a hopeless situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u109	Mr President! In fact, I find it rather sad that we do not currently have sufficient resources and know-how for good hospice care in Finland without it being provided for by law. I believe that good hospice treatment should be developed and regulated by law, but hospice treatment, good hospice treatment, and euthanasia, good death, are not mutually exclusive. According to the citizens' initiative before us, euthanasia could always be carried out only by the patient's own will and it could not be decided by anyone other than the person himself, and the citizens' initiative proposes very strict conditions for receiving euthanasia. In addition to the patient’s own request, the most important criterion is that the patient suffers from an incurable disease that he is about to die of. We heard experts on a very broad scale in committee, and we unanimously demand further clarification, but ultimately Parliament is the one who decides. Euthanasia has to be decided by law, and we cannot escape that responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u110	Mr President, värderade talman! It must always be possible to ease the suffering of the end of life by means of proper care. As one possibility, the authors of the initiative propose allowing euthanasia under certain strict conditions. The intolerable suffering of the patient is one of the criteria. However, the definition of intolerable suffering is very difficult and often very personal. It is therefore up to the treating physician to decide on euthanasia. On the basis of expert opinions The Medical Association and a large number of doctors are not in favour of euthanasia for this reason. Instead, doctors and medical staff want and need more hospice care skills. That's what I'm hoping.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u111	Madam President! High-quality hospice therapy, which treats the patient’s pain and other symptoms, fear and loneliness, and so on, should be available to all those in need throughout Finland. Instead, euthanasia, the deliberate killing of another person, is not part of a society that values man and respects human life. Today, in Finland, we have the opportunity to treat the symptoms, to relieve them sufficiently, and we also have the opportunity to do so, so I would like us to be honest: today we have every opportunity to deal with the sufferings and symptoms of the patient. Then: We also have experience in Europe. There is no point in thinking that euthanasia remains on strict criteria. In the Netherlands and Belgium, it has expanded to include children, young people, dementias, mentally disabled people, even without a diagnosis. Euthanasia comes
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u112	And then I give the floor to the Minister. Minister Saarikko, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u113	Mr President! I would like to take the floor in this debate to extend warm thanks to the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to the chairman and to the members of the committee, for the commendable and exceptionally demanding work you have done on this report. I do not think that the debate on good death or our perception of what death is should be feared by society. In my opinion, we in Finland have been silent too much about the fact that life ends for all of us, and it does not matter how it ends, and under what circumstances or in what kind of experiences, hopes and, above all, fears it happens. My personal opinion is that I do not welcome euthanasia. Although I recognise from previous speeches that some people here find it problematic that this debate is so strongly linked to the importance of hospice treatment and pain relief, I still consider it our preferred option. But perhaps it would be better if we at least did not contradict each other in the debate, and I have never understood anyone in favour of euthanasia claiming that hospice treatment would not matter. It is essential that neither here nor here should talk past. With my parliamentary background, this is the most difficult debate I have ever had. I think that is why this requires exceptional responsibility on the part of all of us. I thank you for this report, above all, because you have balanced the various values and positions of the members of the committee in such a way that you have formed a uniform position, and I take very seriously the statement you have written in this report. The last time I went through with the department's administration today is what would be the way in which your entry would be carried out as soon as possible. I think it is important for the ministry's administration to take part in this, because I do not think it is so much a party-political or government-participation debate, but that this theme will continue in one way or another during the next parliamentary term. In any event, the Ministry intends to work with external experts and officials on the recommendation work on hospice and pain relief that was published at the end of last year. Above all, it is responsible for the university medical districts as a spearhead to look through our entire health care system so that hospice treatment at all levels could be possible for good treatment of pain and a dignified death, even at best in home care, but also in basic health care, in different types of institutional housing — regardless of time and place. And with the support of the government, the concreteisation of that recommendation takes place in the sense that we allocated an appropriation to the training of health care staff and to the concreteisation of these recommendations in the everyday life of practical health care. I remember, Mr President, that in Finland, where there are scarce resources — and this is a time to shudder — we should not invest in a group of people who are going to leave us anyway. That's the kind of human image I can't understand. I think that responsible health care looks at a person’s life from birth to death in a dignified and good way. This is something that you too, Mr Social Affairs and Health, have identified in your report. Under the obligation of your report, the Ministry will launch a work that responds to the content of your statement, i.e. to maintain a civil debate on the themes of euthanasia and good death, to strengthen expertise on what this really means, this very demanding concept of ‘euthanasia’, which may well be thrown out on different topics. But above all, according to my own choice of values, the emphasis of that work is on strengthening hospice and palliative care at all levels of the entire health system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u114	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u115	Mr President! For my part, I would like to thank the authors of the initiative for the fact that this important issue has emerged in the debate. Good life also includes the right to a good death, and people must be valued from beginning to end of life. I would also like to thank the committee for having received a joint report after a long and thorough consultation of experts. Now we have heard that, if and when Parliament approves this statement here, what I hope, and I appeal to the majority to do so, then the ministry will begin that work. Yes, I say that legislation is needed to bring forward hospice care. It is a sore need, and what concerns people have when it is not available on an equal basis. People's concerns are touching. But that skill. One of the key issues raised in the expert consultation is the need for hospice care skills. Medical staff and medical staff need training, and I very much welcome the fact that we now have the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u116	I would ask that we stick to this timetable: one minute for each debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u117	Mr President! Firstly, on behalf of the entire committee, I would like to thank you for the work we have done together on this very sensitive and serious issue. I believe that the authors of the citizens' initiative have done Finland a great service in stimulating the debate on values in that such issues also need to be discussed in Finland, and with this seriousness we have also gone on to do this work in committee. However, despite the fact that we disagree, for and against this issue too, perhaps someone is still considering which one would think, as in the case of value issues in general, that common will has been the fact that the head has not been put in the sand or in a difficult question, but that these matters have been clarified. That's where I'm thinking,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u118	Madam President! However, Minister Saarikko gave an extremely well-founded, well-balanced and fine speech on this difficult issue of death, hospice treatment, euthanasia, which this citizens' initiative is also dealing with. Under no circumstances should anyone suffer during the last years or moments of their life. That is also why this citizens' initiative has been taken, and it is good that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has tackled this issue so strongly and has produced a good report on this. I am in favour of this report myself, which is now required by this motion for a statement by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that this should be carried out in depth without setting matters against each other and bringing here a clear proposal on how progress can be made on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u119	Madam President! A few speeches here have made me feel that it has been suggested that we, who are in favour of euthanasia, are now taking the decision when someone dies, when I see for myself that we want to allow the free choice of those who are terminally ill and who are near death, suffering unreasonable and for whom there is no help. I thought it valuable that the Minister stressed that hospice treatment and euthanasia should not be contrasted. But it is good that this debate has highlighted the fact that it is extremely important that we develop hospice care in such a way that quality hospice care is available everywhere in Finland when the time comes. I usually try to look past my own little subjective experience in this room, but on this question, it is impossible to see what a neighbor is suffering, what nothing can be done, and every moment you wish that he could get away with his suffering. I, too, would like to guarantee that choice if that moment comes. I appreciate the fact that you, Minister, want to take part in the debate, even though we see this question differently as people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u120	Madam President! Although I disagree with this euthanasia aspect of the citizens' initiative and I regard it as contrary to the human dignity of medical ethics and respect for human life, I do consider this initiative to be a valuable initiative if it is to do us a favour of developing hospice therapy more vigorously and I hope it will indeed lead to it. I would like to hear from the Minister that, now that this working group of experts is being set up, what timetable is this set, how you have thought about the composition and what timetables are being given to this working group of experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u121	Mr President! Although this is a very difficult and complex issue, or perhaps for that very reason, I think we have been able to have a good debate here on this subject. All we have to do is accept that we have a completely different starting point in this area. Some have convictions in a certain direction, while others have very strong faith in individual freedom and the right to draw their own conclusions from their own lives, but I think that all the discussion has been quite good. One important point worth repeating is this confrontation, which always occurs in this debate, that it is either hospice or euthanasia. This is not the case; they support each other, they complement each other, they are for those people who want that particular option. This has become very clear here, and I believe that no one will be able and willing to maintain this confrontation after this debate. It's also worth reading expert statements. Juha Hänninen, a long-term chief of medicine at Terhokoti, among others,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u122	Madam President! In my previous speech, I tried to appreciate this work done by the committee because I understand that it is not easy to seek unanimity when views can be very far apart, and in that way I would like to value it for having found a common view in committee. But of course this cannot mean that all of us here are tied to this common position on this issue, especially since we have justifiably different views on this issue. That is what I would like to underline in this brief speech. Then, Mr President, I would like to say that when this statement by Mr Heinonen talks about legislative measures, I believe that this also means careful ethical consideration. So we are not modeling any other country, but making our own Finnish model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u123	And now, Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u124	Mr President! In my speech, I forgot to point out that, by means of hospice care alone, more parliamentary groups have taken initiatives and legislative initiatives during this parliamentary term too, that hospice care should be subject to its own, even separate law or at least to legislative provisions. I am very open-minded about that idea. For example, the Health Care Act is changing in any case with the reform of social welfare and health care, and so it is possible to consider this in this context. At the same time, of course, perhaps I will say that this quality recommendation work and the practical implementation that will follow will perhaps show that we primarily need, under the legal clause perhaps, understanding and training and resources at the various levels of our health care, so that we can succeed. But as part of that work, it is also appropriate for me to consider through this thinking of the legal terms of hospice treatment. This working group to which Mr Räsänen referred by his question: Of course, I am now waiting in peace for Parliament to go through this whole and whatever solution it comes to. My personal wish would be a strong common will from Parliament on this issue. The primary objective of that working party, which was prepared in the Ministry without knowing the end of the committee, focused on the development of hospice care and palliative care on the basis of its work on recommendation, but now, if Parliament approves this statement, I think it is appropriate to take a broader view of that composition, in so far as the committee's very well balanced statement also on the continuation of this euthanasia debate and what it really means will be taken into account in one way or another. I am also very open to expert proposals and other marginal conditions, because I think that work is not just a government job but a response to a parliamentary statement. And it suits me that the work will start as soon as possible, when Parliament has formed its position.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u125	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his very wise contributions and also the committee for the valuable debate we had there. I believe that the committee's statement is also very well founded from the point of view of the objectives of the citizens' initiative, although I do not agree with them. Many speakers have called for strict criteria for the citizens' initiative, but the model it requires is not easy to implement in the current health system. Let me take one example: a responsible doctor is required who has long-standing knowledge of both the patient and his illness. This is not the case in Finland but in very few cases. In the Netherlands, however, the family doctor’s model makes it possible to evaluate the patient’s life cycle and his free will in a completely different way. In any case, we need a good hospice care system, a good palliative care organisation and, above all, as the Minister said, we need a high-quality training for the whole medical staff, but also for doctors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u126	Madam President! There has been a good debate on the euthanasia issue and on the basis of the citizens' initiative. My position on this is clear: respect for life. Life is a gift from God, and man should not go into that area to tamper. I don't think that's a human task. There are some interesting points in this report. It is indeed a good thing that this issue is now being examined on the basis of the mandate given by Parliament, and it was interesting that at the beginning of this year the Government adopted a regulation according to which university hospitals in their own territory are developing this palliative care and hospice care, and then the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health gave instructions last year. This issue, the development of hospice and palliative care in Finland, is, in a way, still at its origins, so that we need to pay much more attention to this. But it must be because human life is respected, and I do not think it is up to a person to be that judge. It belongs to far higher quarters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u127	Mr President! This citizens' initiative, on the other hand, shows how important citizens' initiatives are. They bring things to the debate in Parliament where we decision-makers are not as courageous as the citizens are. It is easy to say that euthanasia is not possible; in fact, it is easy to close your eyes to where people need euthanasia in everyday life. But I myself have thought that we should not look at it through the system, but through people. I particularly appreciate those who see people dying in their work and who already do the best hospice care in the country, for example. Hospice doctor Juha Hänninen stated in his own statement that euthanasia law is important for situations where even good hospice treatment cannot help to eliminate pre-death suffering. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u128	Madam President! After all, the Medical Association is opposed to legalising euthanasia, and they argue that euthanasia is never just a private matter for an individual, but a choice of values for society. This sovereignty has been referred to in many speeches, and I am thinking about where the border is. Why do we legislate differently, why can't there be self-determination in all matters, or just in certain things, when we think this is a good thing? There are also arguments used here that life is a gift from God. Well, I'm glad to hear that a lot of representatives have the courage to recognize the color. There is also this self-determination. As humans, we cannot decide when we are born into this world, we cannot decide when we are born into this world. That's why I think it's not right either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u129	Mr President! It has been said here that we must not go against euthanasia and hospice, and I entirely agree. I'm sure this is where we know it, but I think it's going to get really messed up in people's perceptions. If a person wants euthanasia because he does not receive quality and good hospice treatment, then these concepts get confused. We need to focus on the real names. I warmly appreciate the unanimous decision taken by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the work done and also the inclusion of this statement in this package. Hospice care requires competence, increasing competence throughout Finland. We have a lot of people living in nursing homes, and that's where we need to get that know-how added. Everyone has a valuable death, and hospice is an improvement in quality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u130	Mr President! It is difficult and sensitive and deeply touches our basic values. Fortunately, the debate here has been of good quality and I thank all those who took part in the debate. I personally do not believe that allowing euthanasia, within the limits of strict criteria and good preparation, would have any other consequences than for a mortally ill person in incurable pain to have a dignified death if he so wishes. Euthanasia remains within the criteria laid down for it. It's up to the regulator. Mr President! Hospice treatment is an important issue and must be developed. However, the citizens' initiative concerned euthanasia, so I believe that Parliament should now take a position on euthanasia. The committee's statement is a good one, and a common view of the difficult issue has been obtained, but I fear that it will mean that the matter can be buried in the working group and that it will then be up to the government whether the euthanasia law will ever be brought to the decision of Parliament. I therefore see the need for us to vote in this context on the preparation of the Euthanasia law, which is the subject of the initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u131	Madam President! I would also like to thank the authors of the initiative for bringing this difficult question to us about good death and for having us think about it. Mr Juvonen here called for everyone to think of a difficult, incurable illness, whether for himself or in close proximity, in which the pain is unbearable, and to defend euthanasia. I've had some personal experience with this. In close proximity, at 43 years of age, the mother died of cancer and the father died of heart failure. It wasn't easy for either of us to leave. Nevertheless, I have not become a supporter of euthanasia, perhaps precisely because I know how difficult and complex this is. On the second day, lifeline can be strong when on the second day you wish to die. Hospice therapy and euthanasia should not be contrasted. Good hospice treatment and pain relief are needed, but from a euthanasia point of view, I am more cautious. I support the committee's report on:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u132	Madam President! I also appreciate the work done by the committee, of course, but, on the other hand, I do not quite understand why we should at least seek unity in such a matter, something that cannot really be found. I do not think that this working group will be making a proposal that everyone here will ultimately be in favour of, and I personally feel that this is going back to the study and putting the head in the sand on the essentials. As mentioned above, Juha Hänninen, former director of Terhokoti, pointed out very well that we are not taking a model, and we should not take a model from Holland or Belgium, but we should make our own, good Finnish model on this issue. And I myself underline the urgent need to improve hospice care. It is still possible that this situation is somewhat confused in this debate by the fact that in some way it would be
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u133	Madam President! I would like to thank Minister Saarikko for his promise to move the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health forward quickly. Mr Östman's comment that allowing euthanasia also gives some kind of impression to society: That is our value issue, whether we allow it in the ways in which life ends or ends. It's up to the citizen himself to decide his own life. This is justified, but many times in our neighborhoods the terms ‘palliative therapy’, ‘save therapy’, ‘don’t revive’ decisions are confused. We each have experiences of palliative treatment through close relatives. We see how patients may suffer, but this reflects the fact that we do not have adequate quality methods of hospice, palliative care available. It is precisely this development of hospice care that we must focus on in the future, and it is the authors of this Euthanasia initiative that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u134	Congressman Kymäläinen. And after this speech, let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u135	Madam President! I myself am in favour of euthanasia and I am also very much in favour of the development of hospice care. Often, people who have witnessed the painful and difficult death of their loved ones wonder whether it is right, and often on the basis of it, the development of hospice care as well as euthanasia will be supported. From this light thought base one might conclude that in many places in Finland, many aspects of hospice care can be developed, as support for euthanasia has increased in Finland in recent years. The committee has done a fine job, and I support that statement, but I also support the stronger wording that has been put forward here, and precisely so that Finland is given its own criteria and its own Finnish model, because hospice care is often also a prolonging of life. It is no longer a quality life when you have been put to sleep, or when you are dealing with pain and taking medication.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u136	I will give one last speaker to Mr Niiko, and then we will certainly go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Representative Hoskonen mentioned here that life is a gift from God and one can agree on it. In fact, the reason I asked for the floor was that the first speech I made was a little tactless on one point. In fact, Mr Heinonen, while you are here, I apologise publicly for being a little tactless in my personal assessment of the motivation for protest. I know you a lot of years ago, seven years ago. I know you're a very hard worker, and I appreciate your work and your honesty. Usually, what you do and say, that's the word. You are one of the few representatives I can trust in this house when things are discussed and decided, the word you say holds. So on these grounds it must be acknowledged that sometimes the leg of the rushing one goes astray, and I got lost when I went too hard to judge your statement, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u138	When Mr Heinonen's name was mentioned, I will give the floor to Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Niiko, for the fine words. Forgiveness and respect for others are important, and I appreciate that you did so. You had also done well by e-mail and also by sending a message to my phone. Things like this are difficult, and sometimes feelings may be racing, but forgiveness has been given and work together goes on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u140	All right, let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u141	Madam President! Quality hospice treatment must be made available to all those in need throughout Finland. This means that the individual needs of a dying patient are met, pains and other symptoms are eased, fears, feelings of worthlessness and burden are overcome, and questions of eternity are also met together. Good hospice treatment also meets the relatives and loved ones of the dying patient. Good hospice treatment appreciates and respects the patient and also helps to keep quiet. In this, the patient can have complete confidence in his doctor and nurses. Good hospice treatment cannot include killing a patient. There are many people behind the Euthanasia citizens' initiative who have unfortunately had to see the enormous suffering of their loved ones and loved ones. Years ago, the chances of relief of pain and other symptoms have been considerably lower. Today, there is a large effective range of measures to relieve symptoms and, if necessary, sedation is also available to alleviate even the most severe symptoms. Let us be honest: today, the possibilities for relief of pain and symptoms are quite different from years ago. Of course, there have been omissions and irregularities. Depending on the location, availability of hospice treatment and effective relief of symptoms may have varied, but there should be no legalisation of the killing of the patient. It is important to note that when we talk about euthanasia, we are talking specifically about the deliberate, deliberate killing of a patient. It is an active act of killing. From time to time, there is still talk of passive euthanasia, but such an expression should not be used at all. Euthanasia is only active and only active. It is quite different when talking about stopping unnecessary treatments or, according to the patient’s wishes, not starting some treatments at all. These treatment guidelines, which are carried out with the patient and often with the patient’s family, are part of normal, good practice. This is also the case when a so-called non-resuscitation decision is taken, that is, the decision that if the breathing or heart rate stops, the patient may die in peace and the resuscitation is not initiated. It is worth mentioning at this stage that many supporters of the citizens' initiative were in fact in favour of good hospice treatment and abstinence of unnecessary treatments and not active killing of the patient. Euthanasia, the deliberate killing of another person, we have experience in a few countries. In Europe, the Netherlands and Belgium are manifestations of gloom in this respect. If someone had the idea that, after legalising euthanasia, it would only be used with strict criteria, very rarely, then it is indeed wrong. In the countries that have legalised Euthanasia, the use of euthanasia has multiplied. It is also used for young people and children, mentally disabled, mentally ill and dementias. Euthanasia has also been used in the very usual problems of ageing. It has also been said that a quarter, perhaps even a lot more, of euthanasia is not fully reported. There is also an initiative in the Netherlands that euthanasia should be possible without any further diagnosis or trouble, only if you feel that you have already lived enough. Slippery Slope is not just a threat, it is a reality from the experience of Europe. Once the door to euthanasia has been opened, it enters society with its own dynamics. Its use is expanding. At the same time, with the legalisation of killing, suicide rates have clearly increased in these countries. Euthanasia must not be opened to the slightest extent. It is not part of a society that values man and respects human life. On the other hand, quality hospice care should be made available to all those in need throughout Finland, and I would like to invite you to Tampere, for example, to the Pirkanmaa hospice home, which is the first hospice home in Finland as well as in the Nordic countries, where the slogan is: “There is much to be done in the tasks of the municipality. “ When a dying person is near and needs are met, there have been no euthanasia vows, and I personally see as a doctor that if the euthanasia wing is presented, then there is not enough treatment and relief, not enough contact, not enough near and present. Then I would also ask you how you see that I, as a doctor, have given an oath: ‘Entultify anyone with a deadly poison,even if I were asked to do so,and not to advise them. ‘Hippocrete oath. The doctor’s policy of abstaining from taking life has enabled the development of health care and has also protected dissidents in different ages of history. I have given the oath to take care of and cherish. I have given an oath that I will not kill or help anyone to kill. How do you feel that doctors and health workers could act after the task of killing another person? Besides, there is no need for it when we have good quality hospice treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u142	Madam President! According to surveys, the vast majority of Finns are ready to accept euthanasia, or good death.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u147	Mr President! Death and death are inevitable for all of us. Consciousness of the end of life, the impending death, is causing at least some mental crisis for everyone. I have often heard people wish death would come unexpectedly or in a dream so as not to have to consciously face the thought of coming from their own death. Medical development has increased life expectancy, improved well - being, and enabled many people to live even in situations where injuries, inborns or those born during life would have ended life much earlier. Many serious diseases today can be cured, or with them it is possible to live a full life without hope of final healing. In my study, while I was still doing the work of a cancer doctor, there was a painting that said: “The doctor can change the name of death, but not in his death row. “ So the development of technology and science will not bring eternal life, and death will remain a part of the story of each of us. The attitude toward death also reflects the values and everyday life of every historical age. In the past, not even so long ago, death and death were present in man’s everyday life. Today, death has been transferred to institutions, hospitals, out of sight. In this time, the need to manage, control and schedule is emphasised. Efficiency, productivity, determination and ambition are the words of the day. Death and its expectation are very ill suited to the pace of life today. A person who is old, fragile or dying is not very trendy, and we are afraid of a situation where we need the help of others. Man doesn't want to be a burden. In the movies, we have seen a model in hero stories of people who have taken the decision into their own hands. Euthanasia has created a certain ideal model in which man, according to his so - called free will, saves himself and his loved ones the suffering that it would mean to wait for natural death. The emphasis on free will and individual rights is the main argument of the defenders of euthanasia. I still do not know how the free will of another person is truly defined. Few of us travel this journey of our lives without family, friends, or community that influence people’s opinions. The majority of loved ones support a sick person with love and caring care. However, in my previous job, I have unfortunately often encountered situations in which a patient dying of that support does not receive it. The meeting of a sick loved one is considered a pregnancy and the patient is considered a financial burden. Fortunately, I have also witnessed a lot of genuine sympathies, but I have had to face direct evil and cruelty that the loved ones pressure the patient to give up treatment or ask the doctor to rush the patient’s death for economic reasons. On what basis and by what training can the doctor determine whose free will is sufficient to satisfy the conditions of any legislation? The debate in the hall also confuses the fact that many of the most passionate defenders of freedom of choice in euthanasia are those who are most fiercely opposed to human right to freedom of choice in healthcare services. I've been working with dying patients for years, and I know that every death, like life, is different. Means and skills for good death exist but are not accessible to all today. Pain, shortness of breath and other physical symptoms can be treated. Of course, mental and spiritual distress are more difficult. The ignorance represented by Mr Pekonen in his speech, among other things, about the use of sedation, well illustrates how many misconceptions there are about the means of everyday hospice care for people who have received training in this field. However, this is not where I am going to teach a lesson on good hospice care. When hospice services are adequately organised and no one has to fear that they will not receive sufficient help when they need them, we can also consider other means of legislation. The committee has done a great deal of work on the citizens' initiative. It's been given a very valuable hearing. The committee's position will enable not only the important debate on social values to continue but also the increase in information for both citizens and decision-makers and, above all, the realisation of both my heart and hope, of valuable and comprehensive hospice care throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u148	Mr President! I understand the meritful purpose of the citizens' initiative: they want to increase human self-determination and the right to avoid pain. But the initiative does not only increase the individual’s right to a dignified death, but at the same time gives the authorities not only the right but also the obligation to define the human viability. Most doctors do not want to take responsibility for breaking up a person’s life. For many, it is against the Hippocratic oath. Deciding on life is such a complex ethical issue that it cannot be resolved on the basis of the expertise of a particular profession. It would narrow ethical reflection to a technocratic solution, as if there were even a right and wrong answer to break life. It must therefore be understood that allowing euthanasia is not a medical or even scientific issue. The way the permissive law is applied is always a political issue, it reflects society and its values. Although the doctor is responsible for a clinical assessment of the patient’s genuine will, ultimately the power of decision rests with the courts and supervisory authorities, and their activities are guided by social understanding, epistem, or deep structure of hidden forms of information, from which are defined healthy and sick, normal and abnormal, permitted and forbidden, acceptable and reprehensible, life and death. Michel Foucault has shown in his studies of madness and sexuality how different ages and forms of society have created mechanisms of rejection and exclusion; ways of subjugation change in time. Let's just go back one generation, and homosexuality was a crime. It was out of criminal law in my lifetime. At the same time, it was only at the beginning of the 1970s that the law of sterilisation was repealed, by which society defined the right of people it considered to be antisocial to children and families. Apart from people suffering from mental symptoms and developmental disorders, any person who is different from the Community standards could be subjected to drastic coercion. The Sterilization Act was enacted in 1935 at a time when eugenics was a leading European idea, including in Finland. In the name of national interest and racial purity, it was right to subjugate minorities, those who were defined by the majority as unfit, rejected and removed. Under appropriate circumstances, a cruel and cruelly indifferent majority can lead to the destruction of a minority. It is the duty of this hall to defend the wrong people, the wrong and the wrong thinking, the poor and the small, the weak and the unfit, because they themselves cannot defend themselves against violence. Today, too, the exchange of legal sex requires proof of infertility, a practical reason for which it is impossible to understand — rather, it is an example of subjugation of defenceless persons written into every society. This government has agreed with one another not to change the law in a more humane way, and that is the only principle that has been put forward. In other words, coercion is justified by an argument of authority. That's something to think about. I personally identify with a minority which the majority do not consider viable. ‘It shall also be deafening to allow such a lawful marriage to The 1929 Marriage Act also prohibits marriage to epileptics. This article was not removed until 69 C.E., and only for 30 years have all disabled persons been entitled to marry and to start a family. Mr President! Although I have just described progress in the lives of rejected minorities, there is nothing to guarantee that the area of liberalisation and equality will always expand. A group can always be excluded from the Community and defined as inviolable. Although in this Parliament a large majority sign undivided human dignity, even in civilized societies ethnic subordination and even racial doctrines have received new support. It is quite possible that the violent climate will increase and that the democratic negotiating system will have to give way to the promotion of stronger rights. The ideas of the '30s have never disappeared. In the world of international migration, they offer those who feel threatened the opportunity to retaliate against the uncertainty caused by globalisation. Those who are left behind in the storms of change but those who are born may be tempted to ethnic purity, and the doctrine of ethnic purity is not a long way off to carry out ethnic cleansing. There are also mechanisms of violence nesting inside seemingly democratic structures, which make dissidents outlawed and, as has been alarmingly seen again in Europe, killing them. Mr President! If you'll excuse me, just a few more words. As I said, I fully believe in the goodwill of the authors, signatories and supporters of the Euthanasia initiative, human love and respect for life. However, allow one in this Chamber, which shares a liberal, individual and secular view of the world, to remain sceptical about proposals that create a legal basis for separation, exclusion and even elimination. It is not impossible at all that racial breeding does not become the ideological mainstream of even civilized societies, generally accepted, even everyday life. There are signs in sight, and I do not want to give any tools to criticise viability and its tragic consequences. I therefore add to the committee's unanimous report these aspects, which are intended to remind each society and every time at least of the latent possibility of violence and coercion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u150	Madam President! First of all, on this matter for me: In no way am I in favour of allowing euthanasia. Life is a gift from God to man, and I do not think it is a human matter to decide it with a human hand. This society is very much moving towards a career in which secularism, secularisation, etc., has progressed all the time and, for example, respect for Christian values, respect for the integrity of another person is falling behind. It has been replaced by greed, self-interest, and it seems possible to use any force and any amount of force to pursue these goals. I think it is a terrible consequence of forgetting these Christian values. In this report, which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has done, there are very interesting details: First of all: ‘A survey of doctors treating patients who are dying So 17 percent of doctors were in favour of allowing euthanasia. This figure is quite small in itself, however, when one can say that 83% of the sample was against euthanasia, in accordance with this report. It occurred to me that when you look at this matter from a doctor’s point of view, as Mr Raassissina has just said in his excellent speech about the doctor’s work and what it involves, forgetting the Hippocrates oath from the doctor or, in general, from the medical staff, so that life is not respected, is something I very much wonder. Life has been given a gift, and playing with a man’s hand to decide the end of life, not my ethics, then nothing. This same report also shows that the level of palliative care and hospice care in this country is poor. Of course, there are places and specialised hospitals that do it with merit — I do not blame health care people under any circumstances — but now we have to really and truly start working on this in Finland in order to achieve high levels of hospice care throughout the country. Last year, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health issued guidelines for this purpose, its own recommendations. The STM report 44/2017 shows these guidelines, and the Government Decree from the beginning of this year has ordered university hospitals in their respective areas to operate in such a way as to update the guidelines for care and to a good level. I think this is the way forward. But that we should leave human life to decide, and that we should become the decision maker who then decides the human life, I absolutely do not approve. It is a phenomenon of our time, and all I could think of was where is the limit, who then draws the last line from who gets to live, who dies. It's a terrible idea for me. Life is a gift from God, and that is how it should be kept, and let man not beat his fingers on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u151	Mr President! A few years ago, I met a friend on the street who mourned the death of a loved one. Long illness with its many stages had finally ended in death. The last months of a sick life had been spent with the family, at the concert together dancing, at home fighting hard pains. A strong desire for life and tenacity, as well as the family, were able to participate in many kinds of events when they were sick. Despite the desire to live, the last few weeks of this dying person were painful for both himself and his loved ones. A strong heart filled with love endured disease much more than he himself would have endured pain and slow decay toward death. His last request to his loved ones to help him get out was overwhelming, for his family could not help him in any other way than by taking care of the pain relief. When we met, my friend asked me why this suffering should be prolonged, whether Finland could not also have the right to die. Every life is a gift that is given to us. The gift is received as it is received. Do we, though, have the right, when seriously ill, to decide on death? The debate on euthanasia has been taking place for a long time. The subject was once easy for the debater at the school, as there were always good and credible arguments for and against it. Today, it is no longer a question of winning or losing the debate, but of understanding right and wrong for society and for man. As a legislator, it is difficult to define many things, and this is particularly the case in euthanasia. What kind of suffering should society respond to with euthanasia? When making the law, it should be possible to determine when suffering could be considered intolerable to the extent that it would lead to euthanasia following repeated, personal death requests of the patient. How would the legal protection of doctors be defined when they take responsibility for suffering and the patient’s desire for legal interpretation? Many who oppose euthanasia see the danger of an outsider putting pressure on a patient to die or even, at worst, society begins to save on expensive treatments with euthanasia. Mr President! Although all these aspects must be taken into account, they still seem secondary to the wish of a seriously ill person. Even the promise to improve hospice care and pain relief does not remove the fact that not all seriously ill persons can find a human way to die, even by modern means. For many long - suffering ones, it is also important to be close at the time of death. It's also important to someone close to you. Should not everyone in a welfare society have the right to a good and dignified death? My friend's question confirmed in my mind the idea of making euthanasia possible in Finland. The decision-makers must not hide behind a difficult and complex matter. We need to find solutions to obstacles instead of stopping. Legislation must protect people and the right to life and good death, not the system. It must respect human dignity and self-determination.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u152	Madam President! The citizens' initiative and this debate have justified the need for euthanasia with two arguments, on the one hand, the suffering of an incurable patient and, on the other hand, his sovereignty, the right to decide on his death. I would argue that these arguments are not supported by the ethics of health care and also by the choice of means of hospice care. Hospice therapy is more advanced than ever in human history. Even severe pains can be treated asymptomatic. For example, the same opioids that are used to treat severe pain are also effective in relieving the feeling of shortness of breath that has also been mentioned here. And if other means are not sufficient to relieve anxiety or shortness of breath or mental distress or pain, then we really have that palliative sedation method in place, and that is not euthanasia. Studies have shown that the mean survival time in patients with cancer who have been Sedated does not differ without sedation from that in patients who have been treated. The concept of ‘justice death’ is also misleading and, in fact, it is a contradiction in International human rights conventions recognise the right of man to life, not the right to death. In no country, including the Netherlands, has the patient been protected from this statutory so-called right to die — there the doctor has the right to escape punishment if, under certain conditions, he kills his patients. In health care, the essence of self-determination is that the patient has the right to refuse treatment but does not have the right to decide for himself what treatment he is given, what measures are being taken. Why would euthanasia be an exception to this principle? The defenders of Euthanasia often speak of the right to die with dignity. This wish is justified and must be taken seriously. Personally, I think that a dignified death should mean this very good palliative treatment, good hospice treatment. Killing a human being is not a valuable activity. If it is thought that a person has the right to determine his own death by another man, then this is an obligation for the medical profession to carry out this killing. This affects the ethics of the doctor very deeply, since doctors have received an informed and attitudeal training to protect life. That is precisely the starting point of human medicine, unlike veterinary medicine — it can end the animal’s life in some situations, but it is not part of human medicine. There has also been a debate here about Holland. After all, this law was passed in the Netherlands in 2002, and some 1,600 euthanasia deaths were registered in the Netherlands in 2003. In 2015, there were almost 5,500 of these cases. This has certainly not been a solution in Holland to reduce suicides, since at the same time the number of suicides has increased by 35%. In the Netherlands, there has also been a slip of the death tree, which is given even when the patient’s own will is uncertain, for example in patients with dementia. A whole new concept has been created for these cases. Although the same measure is used, in these situations, we talk about ‘life-to-life care’, ‘life-terminating treatment’. A person also has the right to change his view. How should a patient’s previous euthanasia urge be viewed if, in an acute situation, he is no longer able to express the present will? In contrast to the will expressed in that treatment will, half of the Finns who were over 80 years old were interviewed and told that, in the current situation, they were hoping for recovery. So the desire to live is often much stronger when death approaches than when we are healthy. Then I would also like to point out that euthanasia must be separated from treatment for symptoms that may have a side effect of shortening life. Yes, in many situations the doctor will have to weigh the benefits and disadvantages of medicines and various treatments, but the purpose of the treatment is never to kill the patient, even if it may be associated with fatal side effects. Doses of painkillers, such as morphine, may be very high as the patient tolerates an increasing number of medicines. Euthanasia doctors do not use morphine to kill, but muscle paralyzing and cardiac arresters that are not used in hospice. When looking at the substances used, it can be concluded whether they are hospice or euthanasia. Mr President! On hospice, I would like to say that, if properly implemented, it is no more expensive than running patients in queues and on-call police if it is implemented comprehensively and on the basis of the principle that the needs of hospice care should be treated in the same way as emergency emergency situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u153	Mr President! I would like to thank all of you for a wide-ranging debate on a difficult subject. There are different opinions on the matter on different grounds and in particular on the basis of different values. But, Mr President, in this speech I support the statement made by Mr Heinonen, which has been distributed on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u154	Madam President! It is a pity that Mr Pekonen has just left the Chamber, because I would have liked to have liked to have commented on his speech on the subject of sedation. I was very surprised how such thoughts or misconceptions can be expressed by the representative in relation to sedation, especially when the subject has already been discussed in this Chamber. Sedation is by no means euthanasia or even part of it. Sedation can be used overnight, the level of consciousness can be reduced, sleep can be reduced for a day or two. And as the doctors who have treated dying patients have told us, after two days of sedation, for example, the pain is so much less that pain killers, pain killers, have also been able to reduce. So once the brain and body have also been able to relax, rest, then sedation may be possible to reduce the medication as well. It is understandable that the people who launched the citizens' initiative and many supporters have unfortunately suffered the suffering of someone close to them. There were several speeches here that raised the issue of people's self-determination, but this citizens' initiative specifically talks about the fact that if a person had intolerable suffering, it would be as if euthanasia could be used in that situation. Now, if you carefully read the various sections of this citizens' initiative and consider that high-quality hospice care can be carried out in Finland, then quality hospice treatment will meet all these needs, i.e. there will not even be any indication of the use of euthanasia in the citizens' initiative. Here in Parliament, one of the most important meetings was here a few weeks ago, when Dr. Rob Jonquiere, however rightly said, was one of the executives of Dutch euthanasia practices, who visited Parliament on 6.3. As a family doctor, he said that he had practiced euthanasia long before legalizing euthanasia. How is it possible that the doctor was not put in charge of the illegal killing of patients? How could he retain the doctor’s rights, I found myself wondering when I was looking at that man. So he went around and around the world speaking for euthanasia and openly himself said that he had carried out euthanasia long before it was legal and for some reason did not fall under criminal responsibility. Mr Jonquiere painted a rather rosy picture of the Dutch and Belgian euthanasia situation, also stating that, according to the regulations, an assessment before euthanasia would always be carried out by several doctors and that all cases of euthanasia would be carefully reviewed afterwards by the evaluation committee. A completely different truth has emerged from the situation description of the professor of health ethics, Theo Boer, in the Netherlands. From 2005 to 2014, Professor Boer worked in the Netherlands together with the euthanasia evaluation committees and has been through over 4,000 cases of euthanasia. Last year he spoke to Parliament at a major euthanasia seminar. The use of euthanasia in the Netherlands has increased strongly: around 7000 reported euthanasias last year and a large number of non-reported cases. There has been an increase in the number of causes and also in the number of disputes. The so-called escalating surface for the expansion of euthanasia is not just a threat; it has already taken place in Europe. In addition to cancer cases, the causes of non-terminal disease in euthanasia have increased by 600 % since 2007. There has been a special debate about the increase in euthanasia due to psychiatric disorders and dementia. In 2006, there were three cases of dementia euthanasia, 41 cases in 2012 and 141 cases in 2016. There has also been an increase in euthanasia caused by various aging problems, visual and hearing problems, loneliness and grief, such as the loss of a loved one. At the moment, there is also a case in the Dutch Court of Justice where, despite opposition, euthanasia was no longer wanted euthanasia to be carried out by an old man who had previously given him a vague euthanasia. In both the Netherlands and Belgium, there are many instances of non-compliance, the assessment of a second or third impartial doctor is ignored, not all euthanasia cases are reported and not all cases of non-compliance have been subject to legal liability. Between 1990 and 2010, an estimated 23 cases of euthanasia in the Netherlands, a much larger proportion according to some sources, have been left completely unreported. According to Professor Boer, euthanasia brings with it an attempt to normalize the killing of another, the death caused upon request. The possibility of palliative therapy is left out. Professor Boer himself supported the possibility of using euthanasia in extreme cases at the beginning of the 21st century. After seeing an increase in the slope, use of euthanasia and abuse, he strongly warns Finnish legislators and pleads that euthanasia should not be legalized, but that all resources should be used to develop palliative care and hospice care. We have a clear experience in Europe. I hope that we Finnish decision-makers are wiser and by no means open the door to euthanasia. You were also given such a booklet, ‘legalisation’ of euthanasia and assisted suicide. We received such a booklet from Europe and it was distributed to every Member of Parliament. One who is interested can read figures, history, how euthanasia has developed,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u155	Mr President! I myself wanted to thank you for this valuable debate on a valuable matter, and at the same time to say it, as many of us have said today, that it is difficult and challenging in many ways, and that is why it is really important that we have this debate. But in fact I wanted to ask for the floor, too, because now that I have followed the life of a long-standing parliamentarian whom I have appreciated, including Esko Seppänen — the last time I had the honour, in the cafeteria today, of discussing with him the stages of his life and the things he has experienced and why he has been active in this matter — I think that when we are discussing human dignity, self-determination, at the same time the right to life, or, say, the very basic things of life, as we are supposed to do, it is valuable in the sense that this debate is taking place. For me, too, this has been a very difficult matter. I have been living in the Netherlands, in Central Europe, following that atmosphere of debate since the '90s, and of course, as Mr Tanus has said, this debate has been taking place in Europe for a long time and there have been different solutions. Of course, I appreciate the opinions of the medical profession, representative Räsänen and other professionals in the field, and you rightly said how good hospice care is in Finland, and I have followed it closely myself. But actually for myself this question came up in April 2016, when my father was in Lahti doing hospice, and then I thought as far away as euthanasia in that way — or quite literally — that a few days before my father died, my father asked me: Son, could you arrange a one-way ticket for me to Geneva? The doctors did not understand what he meant, nor the nurses, but I did. The question that I was unable to answer then has stuck in my mind in the sense that I knew right away that he meant that he could determine for himself what is going to happen, while surely knowing that there is not much left to live. By this I would like to say that, even in such a difficult matter, sometimes that experience helps to make the decision of its own conscience. On this basis, Mr President, I support the citizens' initiative and support the proposal made by Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u156	Madam President! I, too, am in favour of Mr Heinonen's proposal. Mr President! I have already made a small speech in that toilet, but the fact that in December we renewed the guidelines for hospice care in the Ministry, and yet the group that has yet to be ignored, is the children. In other words, we do not have the current treatment recommendations in Finland for paediatric patients, but there are the current treatment recommendations for hospice patients. In other words, I think it is extremely important that we also take into account the fact that we have hospice care of all ages, including children. It has also been especially emotional to face parents whose children have been hospice. This is a very important issue, and I have made it an initiative for action, that we should also put these recommendations in order and start developing them. Of course, it is understandable that we are talking about big things and we need a lot of knowledge, knowledge and also time to move things forward. Hospice is something that touches when it comes to it — now I am talking about hospice, euthanasia I have already taken a stand in that speech. It is important for those close to you who follow the success of the treatment, of course also for the patient who is at the heart of it, but also for the medical staff. It is very important that training should be increased at the stage of primary care education as well as in further training. In other words, throughout the course of the nursing career, opportunities are given to take part in various training courses, it is very important. I hope that there will be an atmosphere in which no one has to fear the moments when you get sick, that you can trust that you will get good treatment, get pain relief and help and have warm, helpful hands around you. But it is at the heart of life to help one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u157	Madam President! A number of very good and touching speeches have been made here, and the common denominator in almost all speeches has been calling for good, high-quality hospice care available to all dying patients, and I really hope that this debate will also lead to concrete action on this issue. The development of hospice care is essential for all health care professionals who are involved in the care of dying patients, but also for the proper organisation, for example, so that a patient in a home care unit is allowed to enter at any time without queues, without special referrals, only by going there, and, secondly, there must be proper consultation channels. Hospice treatment in a health centre or at home is often possible with the usual methods, pain medication and other relief treatments, but sometimes the means of particularly demanding hospice care are needed, and consultation with a health centre doctor, a ward physician, should be available at any time to a special emergency care unit. Such procedures have been carried out somewhere in Finland, but everywhere they are not yet, and that is why the development of national hospice care is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u158	Madam President! I also wanted to take the floor to remind you that the messages from Europe have also been such that, before any alternative to euthanasia is considered, hospice treatment should be in order and should be extended to all those who need it throughout the country. It was also a very clear message from Dr Boer that this should be done, because, as he said, in the Netherlands, when euthanasia is legalized, the development of hospice care has, however, been sidelined. Currently, about 9% of people with cancer in Holland are dying of euthanasia. I do not know how many of the representatives who have spoken here or how many of the signatories to the citizens' initiative have been present when death has come when a loved one or a loved one has crossed the border. For myself, for 30 years I have been a doctor and several times I have been present when the cross-border movement has taken place. I do not know how many of the supporters of the Euthanasia initiative have wondered whether you would be prepared to implement euthanasia yourself, give them those drugs and then watch that the breath stops, the heart rate stops. I don't know how many of you have wondered what it means to a doctor, to a doctor. While the doctor is trained and hopefully also retains his sensitivity to the sense and communicate with the patient, look for ways to treat, comfort, find together dignity for life in those difficult days, what does it mean for the medical community if the job should include ending life? In Finland, for example, with the exception of four European countries, abortion is an essential task for gynecologists. Many people would like to specialise in women's diseases and births, but Finland has so far been demanding that the small life also be put to an end. In other words, many leave the births of gynaecology, women’s diseases, completely out of the question because it is not possible to select tasks. The citizens' initiative on freedom of conscience in this Chamber was rejected. Now, if euthanasia is legalized, what field can a doctor specialize in? A request may come in every field.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u159	Mr President! Mr Tanus asked a very good and profound question, and I am now trying to answer it. My own experience as a layman, not as a doctor itself, in various situations, is that when you follow the situation of a hospice patient, it is admittedly a feeling — when this condition can often continue not for days but weeks and be in a pain pump, increasing the amount of medicine, being sedated or anesthetic in Finnish — and of course the question is: how long, and how human is that life, and how much such a situation for the loved ones to ask? I admit that this has been a very difficult question for me as a whole, but after the arguments I have just given about that toilet and my own experience, I have personally come to the conclusion that we should nevertheless be open-minded and respect the right to self-determination and, in that sense, follow the European example.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u160	Madam Speaker! In response to Mr Skinner's intervention, I would like to ask how we can ensure that the request for euthanasia is indeed a patient's own request, a firm will. How do we know that euthanasia is not requested because there is an experience of being a burden or of being a burden or something else? There has been talk of hospice treatment in this Chamber several times, and I myself have said on many occasions that one weak link that has existed in Finland in hospice care is, in my opinion, the consideration of family members. The pain and anxiety that relatives often have to go through in the suffering of a loved one, a loved one, and indeed while they are increasing the pain medication or waiting for the effect of sedation — many times the loved ones and loved ones suffer so deeply and so much, and the help, support that the loved ones need, I do not believe that there is enough evidence yet in Finland. In fact, I think that if good hospice treatment had been available everywhere in Finland for all those who need it, and if it had taken sufficient account of the pain and pain and anxiety of the loved ones and, possibly, even after the death of the loved one, these traumas, wounds, pains, I do not believe that today we would have this citizens' initiative on the table at all. This citizens' initiative has come out of the pain and pain of many people, precisely from the experience of suffering that I believe should not have been experienced in Finland today by using the means of medicine. And when I think of this, I must of course say to the people who launched the citizens' initiative and to many supporters that I really regret that there have been neglects in health care, that there has not been enough effort, that there has not been an effective response. But I do not believe that efforts should be made to legalise killing, but that high-quality hospice care should be provided for all those who need it throughout Finland, such hospice care that takes sufficient account of the family and the family as well as the staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u161	Mr President! Congressman Tanus is right in saying that good hospice does include caring for loved ones and paying attention to loved ones, and that is certainly the thing that often limps, because sometimes there are situations where the pain of the loved ones by their quietly fading loved ones may be greater than that of the person whose consciousness is beginning to become blurred. However, when Mr Skinner mentioned here that we should follow the European example, I would like to remind you that only in these Benelux countries — Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg — there is genuine euthanasia legislation, for example, that there are these suicide clinics in Switzerland, but not legislation in which a doctor would carry out a euthanasia in which a doctor would kill a patient. This is precisely the hard question among the medical profession that why doctors should do this, which is contrary to the ethics of the doctor. Why should a doctor kill his patient because performing euthanasia does not require medical training? It is not difficult to carry out euthanasia, that is to say, to kill a person. Why on earth would doctors be obliged to do that? In my opinion, although this is a very sensitive issue and should be addressed with sensitivity, we must also be able to speak frankly, in other words, what is it about? Euthanasia is about ending life, killing man.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u162	Mr President! Thank Mr Räsänen for his clarification. Indeed, this is about the Benelux countries, and I know very well as I live and study in the Netherlands, and I also know the Swiss case. I just wanted to bring it up because this is the experience that I and our family have had. Of course, this question, as you yourself said, Mr Räsänen, is very sensitive, but in exactly the same way I want it to be made plain. It is quite clear that there are certain elements here on which we disagree, and that too must be allowed in democracy. All in all, I hope that no matter what happens in this great Chamber, the debate will continue and this development in Finland in general, because this is something that we have only once again seen in recent years. This issue of education, the ability of family members, such matters — certainly education will help and health care and related measures, but then, ultimately, we have to go back to the basic question. In that respect, I would of course like to thank you, too, for having this valuable debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u163	Madam President! I would like to tell you again when Mr Skinner told me about this ticket — to Geneva, was that it? There has been one case, as I was told, at the Pirkanmaa Nursing Home, which has worked seriously for 30 years. The patient had decided that he really wanted to travel to Europe and decide his own days, but it is reported that his relatives had persuaded him that if he would first try and go there to Pirkanmaa Nursing Home. It is reported that he had been there for days after he found that he was no longer going to Switzerland. That although there was nothing humanly to do, there was still much to do. Among other things, weddings have been arranged there, but we were wondering if the wedding would be held before the departure. There are many ways of living a full life there. While I was here a few hours ago listening to the nurses and doctors’ stories about living life and meeting patients, I did get the feeling that I would really recommend anyone thinking about euthanasia and supporting it to visit, get to know it — because as their motto is that when there is nothing to do, there is much to do. Then a person will be confronted comprehensively, not only with those pains but also with other symptoms, and together we will find the meaning of life, even at a time when perhaps humanly some around us may seem that there is nothing left. Surprisingly many times, as they said, even in those very last days, perhaps in the last few hours, there will also be many topics of discussion, perhaps still to be clarified with loved ones, or such valuable themes, about which I wonder, well, if euthanasia had been carried out, how much of those truly valuable, unique moments would not have been realized. Then, last but not least, I would also like to highlight: However, it is now a question of killing another person in euthanasia — whether the word is used to kill, kill or murder — but in the committee we are also thinking about making some new articles or exceptions to the criminal code, so that where on the street one would be charged with manslaughter or murder, a professional inside the walls of a hospital would not be prosecuted, not prosecuted,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u164	Mr President! Of course, now that we are in Parliament and we are talking about legislation, if you look at the example of Holland, then there have been officials, decision-makers who have managed to create this kind of legislative package in their own way, and then there has been a majority, but in a democratic rule of law, behind such a position. In that sense, I simply wanted to answer your question when you asked me how this would be done, so I do not believe that such a legislative framework, framework and package could be implemented in Finland. If it can be done in the Benelux countries, why not do it in Finland? That is what I wanted to say at the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-03-ps-45.u165	Madam President! There have been messages from the Benelux countries, from both the Netherlands and Belgium, that more cases have been brought to justice. It is precisely when we look at the euthanasia which has been implemented that there is a strong suspicion that euthanasia has been implemented without complying with the legislative provisions. There are also whole conferences, where very critical voices have risen to the legislation and practices that are currently being implemented there. In that sense, what is happening there is also much criticism within the country. I would say that there is very little to come from where we should learn from.
