ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u2	First of all, the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Congressman Filatov, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u3	Mr President! We have all received strong feedback on the so-called active model. People have been angry that unemployment benefit is being cut, but an even greater number of people have been anxious and concerned about how they can meet the obligations of this so-called active model. They have tried and tried to get a job, but they have not found it, and now they lack the belief that they will be able to find jobs in the future, or even these labour market active measures, because they too are limited in number. I would like to ask the government how you intend to alleviate the fear and concerns of these people — and Minister Mattila, who is a responsible minister in the government after presenting this law and as the minister responsible for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u4	Madam President! The question was, how are we going to alleviate our concerns, I interpreted it this way. Of course, now that the active model has entered into force, there is a need for implementing guidelines, which will be prepared together with several bodies. It is not just the content that the STM is dictating, but it is taking place in the process. But, as is well known, we all know, including the government, that this monitoring of the active model must be carried out very carefully. This has been required by Parliament in its statement when the law has been adopted. I'm sure we have ways of doing this. A first version of the implementing instructions has already been issued, the figures have been specified and are ready at present. I would therefore stress that it is Parliament's statement that binds the government, the monitoring of this amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act, just as it does, and that is what the government will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u5	Madam President! I will complete Mr Mattila's response to what I myself am responsible for, namely employment services. So now this law, which was enacted, has these services which are considered to be active activities. In other words, when a person spends five days in these employment-promoting services — i.e. job search, career coaching, work trial, training experiment, labour market training, self-study supported by unemployment benefit and rehabilitation — this criterion is met. But we must also now follow, as Parliament requires, how this is going to work and, if necessary, intervene and resource the TE administration, but also through purchasing services, so that they can be freed from their hands in the TE administration to do this important work. So these are the ways to which the government is currently committed, and these are being followed up and, if necessary, corrected, as long as we have experience of this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u6	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u7	Mr President! I find it quite incomprehensible that the Minister says that guidelines for implementation are being prepared because we have a law in force. The Employment and Economic Development Office, Kela and others are asked: how is this now implemented, what are my responsibilities as an individual, as an unemployed individual? People don't know how to answer, the ones who have to answer for a living. We all know that there are very different people among the unemployed, such as a person close to me who became ill and whose illness lasted so long that the sickness allowance was full, the ceiling was filled. Just before that roof was filled, he was diagnosed with a brain tumor. His only chance was to sign up as an unemployed job seeker, and now he too is subject to these obligations. There are others like him, and we also have more than 40,000 long-term ills who have to meet these obligations, which have been dimensioned to people who are capable of working, fit for work and capable of working. How can it be that a law that is not a right?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u8	Mr President, let me be more specific about what I said about the preparation of implementing directives in the process. This is always the case in the past and has been the subject of an entry into force guideline 9.1. In addition, those clarifications must be made because the Parliament has made changes. It is quite clear that Parliament's will must be respected in these respects. The questioner has, of course, raised an absolutely essential point here, namely that of the group that feels that he is, and in part also seems to be, an interlocutor when it comes to the ability to work and what remains to work, or when situations change, the health situation changes. However, in the government we have a leading project OTE, a project for the part-time workers, which addresses the situation of the part-time workers. This key project is still under way, and I believe that this is the key project.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u9	And then the questions go on. — Mr Aalto, the representative of the Green Parliamentary Group, you have also expressed your wish on this subject, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The Greens believe that it is not right for a person to be penalised by a cut in unemployment benefit in a situation which he himself cannot influence. The unemployed are expected to have flexibility, take-up of gigs or business activities, but the government has made it more difficult, for example, by limiting the right of unemployed children to day care. The Government is due to review the impact of the active model in April, and it should be, if, for example, Secretary of State Martti Hetemäen must, through publicity, guide the Prime Minister on what the active model actually means. I ask the minister concerned: is the government supposed to correct the active model even in such a way as to demonstrate activity through voluntary work, and has the government considered abolishing the transfer tax in connection with the sale of housing and promoting the construction of affordable rental housing, especially in large cities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u11	Mr President! I recognized the question of correcting the active model of volunteering. It is greatly hampered by the fact that we do not have the legislation currently in force on voluntary work, as is the case in many European countries. I know that the network of parliamentary voluntary work has drawn attention to this issue on several occasions, and that, of course, is the fact that the law will probably not be adopted by April. But, as I said, I have said on several occasions that of course the government must monitor the entry into force of this law very closely. I have no doubt that the government will do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u12	Madam President! The representative Aalto asked whether the government had considered increasing affordable housing production. The government has not only considered, but has also. The affordable state-subsidised rental housing production is currently at a higher level than in any year with you and the SDP on the board. The government does, and it's not just considering it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u13	Mr President! The fears and concerns of Finns regarding the active model are also reflected in the fact that the citizens' initiative to reverse the active model has received a huge number of signatures. And I think we can also be grateful for that, because it has also led to a very necessary and welcome, wide-ranging debate on the shortcomings and problems of Finnish labour policy. There are too few trainings and subsidised work in relation to the need, fewer employees in the labour market administration than in Sweden and Denmark, and in addition, the severity in Finland is much more severe than in these countries. The main problem with this active model is that it exacerbates the worst problem of Finnish unemployment security, which is excessive and discouraging bureaucracy. The Left Alliance has suggested that the abolition of red tape should be abolished altogether, and I would now like to ask the corresponding minister whether the government is considering shortening labour market restrictions in order for Finland to move in this direction in the Nordic direction of labour policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u14	Madam President! A fine speech on which consideration was given was made in comparison with the Nordic countries, but when comparisons are made from the Nordic countries, everything that is involved must be taken into account. Sweden, for example, is very strict and Denmark is very strict: it is actually forced to seek work in order to obtain higher unemployment benefits. So if we want to talk about this, then we need to talk about both pluses and negatives and not just tell us what's good about the other model and the other one doesn't. I would like to emphasise that we are currently in a good position at national level with regard to these services. Supported work is one of the best ways to tackle these problems, it is encouraged. We have a marketing campaign coming up, where we will tell you what services are available. In other words, the will of the government is that we go to the point where everyone can prove that they are active, and that is the work we are doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u15	Madam President! In this debate, one small and, at the same time, very big question has been left to me: the supply and demand encounter. At the moment, our employment rate is well over 70%. The number of long-term unemployed has decreased everywhere in the sector. However, when you think of that active model, there is no supply and demand in Northern Finland. When I was in that riot on Friday, people were very happy to talk to me in front of me and said that they did not get work from the north when they did not meet the organization there that offers it. Which means there's a lot of manpower available. How does the government intend to respond to the fact that conversion training for service professions and training for employment are improved so that people actually get that job and, frankly, actively get to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u16	Madam President! That's a very good question. Indeed, the employment rate is over 70%. In this debate it is often forgotten that attention is being paid, as such, to this active model and that the whole thing is being forgotten. It is a government programme with a target of 72%. It requires measures and those measures have been taken by the government. One measure is that we have introduced conversion training, thanks to Parliament's fast schedule, and this conversion training will be extended to other sectors, including tourism, which is now well drawn out in Lapland. It would also be appropriate to train people more quickly in areas where work is changing more quickly. We need more of these faster training tools, and through conversion training we will be able to meet this demand and need.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u17	Mr President! Mr Torvinen, to tell you that it was an organized demonstration of 8,000 people on the ground. It is inconceivable for you to label such a riot as a representative of the government party. [Laughter] Mr President! It is good that people are supported and activated back into working life. There are a lot of needs, people have skills shortages, and people have needs to get help to get jobs. Finns generally understand this very well and strongly. But it has gone beyond understanding and gives rise to concern in people to be cut off from people who try to work, try to provide services and do not receive them. This is the unimaginable feature of this government model of cutting unemployment benefit for people who are trying to get to work or services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u18	Madam President! I did not find the logic entirely in that question of waiting for April. We are on the way in February, we have certainly been working on these guidelines for January, and we have been working on this before January last year. This has already been known in 2016 with the conclusion of the Competitiveness Pact and the so-called ten-list, which yesterday also led to better legislation on zero-hour contracts. In other words, I would stress that Parliament has required that this model be followed up. In the STM it is still possible to focus even more on this key project, which addresses the situation of those who are able to work part-time, within the framework of the project. We still have an opportunity for action and certainly for that discussion with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u19	Mr President! As I said, it is good that people are supported, that services help them get back to work. In particular, the long-term unemployed, the young unemployed, must be helped, invested there, and it is good that Minister Orpo has announced that there will be more money in some way. But there are thousands of people here who are thinking about their own livelihood because the government has decided to cut off even those who are active, try to join the working life, try to get into the services but do not get in, and these people are being cut off according to this government's proposal. Then there are all these problems relating to disability, illness, and which cause labour market support and the same measures and cuts. I ask again: did you not understand my question, Mr Mattila, about whether you are prepared to suspend the implementation of this legislation, to prevent the desperation of these people from increasing? My question is, are you prepared to prevent the increase in despair?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u20	This is where Prime Minister Sipilä asked to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u21	Mr President! First of all, this active model is only one part of the ten actions, the so-called ten-day list, which has made it easier to study, try, a large number of unemployed people from the oldest head have retired with the Lex Lindström Act and so on. This is a big picture. There are 74,000 fewer unemployed job seekers than at the beginning of the government term, our target is 110,000. Our sincere goal with the whole, with all the actions, is that a person gets a job. [AnttiRinteen intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u22	Madam President! Just as the Prime Minister said, this is one part of a very large package. Now that you have heard the answers of the worthy ministers, it was wonderful to hear the Ministry of Finance say, first of all, that there will be more money for the labour force to carry forward. These have at least been on display in the past. And now Minister Lindström said that we could look at certain service vouchers and similars and consider that this employment agency activity would expand and look at different options when it was seen as a major problem. That must also be related to the Growth Services Act. Is this going to become something of a fast-track process, so that different actors can switch to labour brokers and thus improve the level of service, which has been greatly criticised?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u23	Mr President! Yes, when we consider what more of these active measures could be done, one is that this additional demand from the active model can be met — and at the same time prepare for the regional reform — by extending these purchasing services in two stages. For example, now this spring Ely Centres can already compete for additional procurements for existing resources, in particular for short-term personal service, such as job search and career training in this context. And later there would be competitions for larger growth service market pilots, so that the services would still be available to customers in the course of this year. So it is worth looking at this card too, this growth service reform, and through these pilots, which Tampere, for example, already has, this can be used here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u24	Madam President! Of course, the activation of people on all sides is very much to be welcomed and supported by the Finns on the whole. But we believe that trying to encourage the stick is a punishment, not an encouragement. The question might be raised: is the government really prepared for an incentive labour policy? As Minister Lindström said, in the Danish model it is that more support is given when you are active. Can such a model be thought of and abandoned in this current law, which, for example, treats people really badly at regional level, which we absolutely cannot accept?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u25	Madam President! Yes, Mr Kangasniemi, you are quite right that one concern here is these regional differences, that not every place is able to demonstrate that activity in the same way. This is, of course, one of the concerns that the government must then be able to resolve, how to deal with this. It is quite true that when we take only the good sides of each country and forget about the other, the negatives, then we are already in such a debate that it is not balanced. That is why I used this example. I myself have visited the Danish model, as I am sure many others do, and many others know what the system is like. Are we, then, moving on to a Danish model in Finland once and for all? We are not, but this must be in balance between the stick and the carrot — if this is the expression I am using now — and I believe that no one here is opposed to whether or not you would impose sanctions if you are not active.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u26	Madam President! It is quite clear that a wide range of measures are needed to increase the employment rate, and, for example, during the last period, many obstacles to work were removed and, for example, the amount of part-time work was raised. But the problem with this law is, among other things, what the experts pointed out in the expert hearings of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that this is, first of all, punitive — punishing the unemployed for things he cannot influence himself. And thirdly: monitoring this is very difficult because, at the same time as this law, other penalising laws came into force, in which case the experts felt that, in fact, no matter how we follow, we cannot show that the possible improvement in the employment objectives is due to this very law. That is why I am asking: should we not really suspend the implementation of this active model and think about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u27	Madam President! We are not interrupting this, we are taking this forward with determination, taking into account what Parliament requires of us. We are monitoring this and, of course, we are taking corrective measures. Now, for God's sake, legislation can't be that it hasn't been in force at all and then, as it were, we're going to have to put them on the floor and say that this is it. This will be monitored and corrected if necessary, and all the measures we have at our disposal on the TE side will be taken to enable people to demonstrate their own activity. This is the work that we are doing here as Parliament has required.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u28	Prime Minister Sipilä continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u29	Mr President! I should like to add that there was a great deal of opposition in this Chamber when we were talking about periodic interviews with the unemployed. At the time we talked about forced interviews and so on — intense intimidation of them. Today, they provide tremendous feedback from the labour market administration, the unemployed, that every three months the unemployed person and the unemployed are personally reviewed and a joint employment plan is made. What's this all about? This is a question of having a three-hour period of work in two weeks, which, for example, is EUR 2500 per month, which means an increase of EUR 100 per month in the amount of EUR 15 per hour. That's what you get to make without losing your unemployment benefit. If 200,000 unemployed people are covered by measures under this active model, this means that 200 million will be added to the unemployed per year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u30	Mr President! One of the most important tasks of Prime Minister Sipilä's government is to promote employment and reduce unemployment. Activity can be verified in many ways in this active model, as the Prime Minister said: by applying for work, by rehabilitating oneself, by training new sectors in the field of conversion training, you can be an entrepreneur, you can also take full-time studies without losing unemployment benefit. These are tremendously good advances. I agree with Mrs Torvise that the problem of encounters, especially in the growth sectors and regions of Lapland and Eastern Finland, should be addressed. I would therefore like to ask Mr Lindström whether some tax relief could be made, for example for those working in the tourism sector or for seasonal workers, for those working in the extractive sector, in order to overcome this problem of matching in sectors where we currently face a shortage of labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u31	Mr President! I am not going to jump on the Minister of Finance's property and start talking about taxes, but perhaps I will fill in this excellent question as such. This is often the case with a little misinterpretation. In other words, in what is considered to be an active service of this kind, it must be noted that the employment services are organised by the employment service. It's not like I'm going to go there, it's the employment service that decides what the services are, and this is, of course, a good thing to take into account when we talk about these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u32	And, Mr Rinne, you still have a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u33	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, there were several ‘if’s’in your speech:in which to come to work in such a way as to work where such wages are paid,this model works. But when the reality is that everywhere, as Minister Lindström said, these services do not work in a way that can be accessed. Not all of us have that job. And your model — your model, the model of punishment — cuts these people who are trying to work or provide services, 5% of unemployment security roughly. We believe that you have just given the wrong testimony: the Social Democratic Party has supported an increase in active services, and an interview is a good way to move things forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u34	Mr President! I referred to the question of the periodic interviews in this Chamber. At the time, forced interviews were intimidated here, but now that the practice has been held for some time, the feedback is very positive about these periodic interviews, and the same will be true for this active model. Firstly, with regard to the obligation — every two weeks for a three-hour period, 18 hours for a three-month period — the starting point is that such job opportunities should be created throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u35	Mr President! The active model has been obliging the unemployed for a month and eight days, and so far we have not received any implementing instructions that the unemployed could look at exactly what the active model is obliging him to do. I would therefore like Minister Mattila to reflect a little on how this fits in with the idea that Finland is the rule of law. In this context, when the active model was being discussed in this Chamber, Parliament required that the active model be monitored and, if necessary, amended in the event of problems. I would like to ask Minister Lindström: how can this active model be followed if it is not even known what is now being imposed, and the unemployed, as we approach the middle of the first commitment period, do not have any idea of what they are obliged to do, nor do the authorities which should monitor the fulfilment of these obligations? What is the plan of how to follow this now?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u36	I give two speeches to the ministers. In other words, Minister Mattila, and Minister Orpo had the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u37	Mr President! As I have already said, and for the third time, implementation guidelines are being prepared in a process involving the Financial Supervisory Authority, unemployment funds, Kela and EK. This has been under preparation since last year and the debate has taken place. But here too, as the Prime Minister said, there are regional issues with regard to services. There must be no unreasonable situation, and in that respect the law must be improved. But now we are going with what is in force, and the government will certainly follow this, as has been said many times here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u38	Mr President! Many times reference has been made here to the fact that services are not available. On the other hand, it has also been said here that the government has found a way in which we can secure the resources of the employment services so that there are services. Besides, we have a message from the TE Centres from all over the world that there are plenty of services and job opportunities. The Director of the Kainuu TE Centre also told this in a major interview. In other words, it is our duty to respond to the fact that there are services and we will take care of them. We will allocate more money to this. But then I would like to say in general terms when I get the chance that you in this Chamber have opposed every single form of government employment. Every single one of them. At present the employment rate is higher than 20 years, the economy is growing, there are 60,000 more people working than one year ago. So why don't we all think about these things together instead of just resisting everything?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u39	Mr President! The active model has good objectives, but it cannot simply unilaterally oblige the unemployed. How will the skills of employment offices be improved and resources increased in order to provide genuine and correct support when applying for help from employment offices? In addition, the active model puts all jobseekers in the same locker, but job seekers are not a homogeneous group. Not everyone has equal opportunities for the same activity. How has this been taken into account?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u40	Mr President! This question was extremely important because it also referred to what the Prime Minister mentioned there. Firstly, on resources and skills: Seriously, we're looking at how much the TE administration needs to be resourced. It should also be borne in mind that it is not wise to put all the money available in the TE administration, because with growth services the TE Centres will run out. So first people would be hired, and then one year later it would be said that we were done. Here must be wisdom in how this resource is done. I think this is a big question. It cannot be that we use the same means for all the unemployed, but that the whole mass of the unemployed must be better coordinated so that we have people in the right measures: in rehabilitating work those who belong there, and so away. This is, in my opinion, a clay that is also in the arms of the next government, because this must be resolved, and that work is something that we have discussed among the government, that this should be started by this government, that people are in the right places, that they are targeted at the right measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u41	Mr President! It seems to me that everyone in this Chamber is of the opinion that activation of people is a good thing. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u42	Mr President! Of course, the goal of the government is for people to be fully employed, of course. The aim of this active model is not that people should only be employed by gig work or shredding work, but that job work and short working relationships do play an active and rehabilitative role. They are also important because its EUR 300 per month is allowed to earn every unemployed person without reducing unemployment benefit. In that context, this model has also been built. It is also clear that there is a lot of short-term gig work in Finland. Now there are a lot of activities going on in Finland, which are now being used in an active model in precisely such short working relationships. They have many meanings: extra cost, activation, rehabilitation. There are also pros here, if there are challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u43	Next question, the Finnish Parliament Group. Congressman Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u44	Mr President! Regional development in Finland is worryingly divided. One serious consequence of this is the housing situation in oblivion areas. There are many such areas, and many of them are also local cities. When there are no jobs in the area, the housing trade stops and the housing security values collapse — debts remain. Thousands of households living in this plight cannot move to high - priced housing growth centers with jobs. The active model increases economic uncertainty. So those MPs who receive an adaptation pension are not affected by this active model, so I hope that the government will abolish this unfair adjustment pension. In the election debate, the President of the Republic proposed state aid to households in a debt and collateral value trap. True Finns consider this an important opening. I ask the Minister for Finance: when and what kind of measures does the government intend to take to ensure the future of families trapped in a housing and debt trap?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u45	Madam President! The government will continue its active work in view of economic growth, more jobs and a reversal of the situation in the sub-regions as well. In fact, we have many regional cities where there is currently a shortage of housing — hopefully this kind of development will be visible throughout Finland. And fortunately, the employment situation in all regions will also improve. Well, the problem is that in some areas we have more housing than demand, and the situation in both owner-occupied and rental housing is difficult. However, we are not preparing any scrapping premium for the dwellings. Apartments are people's homes, and I don't like the idea that homes are going to be wrecked.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u46	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u47	As I said, the President of the Republic, who was elected for another term of office, proposed that the government should accept the plight of families in a mortgage trap. We have not heard from the government any concrete measures. The Finns Party proposes a comprehensive programme of measures, such as strengthening regional policy, increasing companies and jobs in areas of decline, setting up a separate fund for the provision of direct support and guarantees for families in distress, moving grants for those who change their place of residence for reasons of employment, restoring the full right to deduct interest in these cases and making it easier for banks to provide guarantees for households in difficulty. I ask the Prime Minister: how do you respond to the proposals I have just made by the Finns, and is the government going to tackle this worsening problem without delay?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u48	Mr President! This is exactly what the government has intervened in. If we look at these unemployment statistics now, it is particularly gratifying that unemployment is falling and employment is improving throughout Finland. There is no corner in Finland, not a province where unemployment would not decrease. That is the best regional policy a government can do. Investments are now being made throughout Finland, bioproduct factories are being created — most recently in Lieksa — and so on. Employment in the whole of Finland is improving. It is also the best housing policy; it is the best remedy for all these problems that you raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u49	Mr President! Fortunately, I did not propose this scrapping premium, and I felt that this answer from the Environment Minister was much better in this respect. But there's a problem, there's no way out of it. The second turning point of that problem came up in concrete terms today when a large stock exchange company that owns rental dwellings reported its results last year: if I remember correctly, with a turnover of around EUR 250 million, more than EUR 150 million in profits, a return on investment of 7.1% — a very high return. I do not know how much it actually becomes through housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u52	Let's abort the session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u53	The sitting will continue, the ministers will answer the question that has just been asked. Minister A brickie, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u54	Mr President! Representative Vanhanen described this problematic situation in the housing market: where there is a shortage of housing, the price of housing is rising, investors are doing a good job — it is, of course, a wonderful thing for them — but then, on the other hand, housing support expenditure is increasing. The government’s medicine for this has been a key project in which an unambiguous effort is being made to increase housing production. In this respect, we have succeeded well: housing production is more for market needs than it is for decades, both non-financed and subsidised. But it still feels that we are short of that affordable housing production. I have received an interesting presentation from liquidator Rossilahti, where he presents cooperative housing production, where a relatively small contribution of his own would get his own home, and the cooperative would be familiar to us Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u55	Next question, the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group. Congressman Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u56	Mr President! Today’s newspapers tell us how the workers’ fights have led to a loss of patient safety. Nurses are accused of being irresponsible and greedy when they are banned from overtime and shift. We nurses aren't greedy. Nurses do not endanger the safety of anyone’s patients, but they do endanger those who resource the care sector too sparingly or put a substitute ban on the sector for reasons of austerity. The working schedules for the nurses are already being designed to be too short in the first place. I, too, have been a substitute for a Member of Parliament in the health centre’s ward when there were not enough caring hands. Mr Sipilä, how do you intend to guarantee a reasonable working environment for the care sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u57	Mr President! It is quite true that this collective bargaining situation in the local government sector has revealed, as it were, that this ban on overtime and shift exchanges has now entered into force, even in relation to the normal everyday situation in the working hours of the various health care services. It is quite clear, and I have also seen public estimates, for example, as a result of hospital districts, that there are situations in which they have to openly allocate too little resources in certain units. Of course, it is difficult to comment from the outside on the everyday arrangements of an individual job. From the outside, it would be easy to say and experience that perhaps the day-to-day life would be more functional and well-being at work would be more guaranteed and the work of the supervisor would be easier if things were to be arranged in such a way that there would be a sufficient number of permanent people at work. Sometimes it may be that people have not been available,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u58	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u59	Mr President! In these collective bargaining in the municipal sector, the main issue is the holiday allowance cuts in the kiky agreement. It was decided to cut a third of the holiday money from public workers for three years. The Left Alliance was the only party that has been opposed to the Kiki Agreement all along and everywhere. The return of the holiday money can also be found in our alternative budget. Mr Orpo, you have said that holiday money cannot be returned because ‘there is no mass’. This required mass would be EUR 150 million. At the same time, you have found more money for tax reductions, entrepreneurial deductions and forest reductions. These are political value choices. I would like to ask you again, Mr Government, whether you intend to return the holiday money and replace it with the workers who have lost it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u60	Madam President! The government is not a party at that negotiating table.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u63	Mr President! It is difficult to understand how, for example, cutting nurses’ salaries helps in exporting. The truth is that Finland would not run without our healthcare professionals. They're everywhere. They can be found in day-care centres, in the services of the elderly, in the homes of the elderly on the home care side, in hospitals. Each one of us must know a person whose life depends in some way on medical personnel. And now we have to ask — and I think it is justified — that, when medical professionals want to be valued, such appreciation could be demonstrated, for example, by the fact that the personnel measurements would be put in order so that the medical staff would not be exhausted under its work. I ask, and this has been mentioned here before: what are you, Minister Saarikko, prepared to do, for example, in order to get the level of home care staff in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u64	Mr President! Mr Guzenina, in your question you raised in particular the human resources for home care. The question has been very topical, for example, in your hometown, if I have understood correctly. I appreciate that you have now taken prompt action in the city with these unfortunate cases, which have just come up on you in connection with the overload of home care staff. Home care and the future of care for the elderly is one of the most important questions for Finnish society over the next few years, according to my own assessment. It is due to the ageing of the population, which we have promised with honour to deal with. It is also because, fortunately, people live longer and longer than ever before. Together, we are also committed to the fact that care will continue to take place more and more in people's homes, both through informal care and through the service system. My view of home care is not quite as crushing as your question could show in terms of staff adequacy. My view is also strongly that one of the solutions for improving home care is also better organisation of work in the government's top project. In the case of Espoo, the following emerged:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u65	Madam President! In Espoo, I just asked a question about the City Council regarding the situation in Espoo, as well as the Finns of Finland have also taken a bill on raising and increasing the nurseship. We believe that there should be an increase in carers, that there are not enough. Think about the situation in Finland: we have medical treatment in a crisis. Who caused it? It was because nurses refused to change shifts and to work overtime. How is it possible that we have hospitals, we have emergency services, we have intensive care — and think that there are no agents in the normal reserve? I am the nurse and I have worked a lot of shifts from morning to evening, from evening to morning or from night to night, and I am sure there are other nurses here who have experienced the same thing. Oh, my God, it's time to do something. Is that wages? Is that working conditions? Think: they take care of people, and there is no talk of a mass when health goes or a person dies of injury when there is no special nurse there, there is no helper under anesthesia.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u66	Mr President! I particularly agree with your question in that I do not doubt that everyone in this Chamber will share the appreciation you have described for the staff in nursing and also the need that is well established for their work to bring about and guarantee the good life and survival of all of us when a tight spot comes. However, in this situation, I would avoid using the word ‘crisis’ in the case of the rotation and overtime ban resulting from the contractual situation in the municipal sector for a few days. We in the Ministry are now closely monitoring the situation from different parts of Finland, with the help of the supervisory authorities, and we do not have to show, fortunately, a point where patient safety has been compromised. With this speech, I do not underestimate the seriousness of the situation, and there may be others ahead of us, which, of course, encourages us to find solutions in relation to this overall situation in the labour market. But being responsible for the fact that basic Finnish services work, I wouldn't dare
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u67	Madam President! Helsinki and The management of the Hospital District of Uusimaa has described these effects of the health work struggle as serious, even affecting patient safety. Surgery has had to be cancelled, emergency services are congested, children’s intensive care unit is underdeveloped, as well as childbirth care. I would now like to ask the government what your message is to patients and citizens: can give birth, for example, in a safe mind when seeking treatment?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u68	Mr President! The message of the government is: In Finland, patient safety is guaranteed and basic services are guaranteed. Of course, medical staff also deserve their appreciation, and now, in the negotiations, we hope that the parties will find a solution to this as they wish. But as far as the users of services, the groups you mentioned, are concerned, it is quite true that, according to our assessment, it is in the HUS region, in the capital region and in Uusimaa that the situation has been the most difficult. According to the report I received, there has been a reversal of the planned procedure for individual patients, which has been postponed. This is certainly problematic, but there has been no serious health damage or risk of endangering patient safety. Winter conditions are also effective. In the capital region, the treatment of accidental accidents, of which there has now been a great deal, has been slow due to these large numbers of patients. So the effects are the greatest here, where they are also
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u69	Madam Speaker! Patient safety must be maintained at all times. The welfare of social and health care staff must also be maintained. There is a lot we can do as decision-makers, employers can do a lot, the government can do a lot too, and it was excellent that when Prime Minister Sipilä's government was negotiated, we were particularly concerned about the situation of home care staff. We started a leading project to improve the quality of home care. Management is very important, good personnel must be managed well. I hope, Minister Saarikko, that you will tell us what is going on with this key project, how to develop the management of home care staff, so that home care is of high quality for every elderly person.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u70	Mr President! As I said on the previous question here, there has been a broad political consensus in Finland that care and care for the elderly must be done for as long as possible and it is of high quality and still safe in a person's own home. I am sure that it can and must be resolved by a sufficient number of staff, but we also know that the same group, the same size, will produce very different results depending on how they are managed. It is precisely in this way, in every province that is preparing for its work, that this home care organization is being considered, including the fact that our system will find the elderly who most need help. A lot of people have heard of detective youth work. It has given us good results. It is time to extend the concept of looking for old people's work in order to reach the services. But, Mr President, since this is also a question of the resources of the municipalities, when reference has been made to whether there are enough people and how the services have been organised,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u71	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Administrative Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u75	All right, then let's go to the speeches and there's Mr. Kulmala. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u76	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the provisions of the Municipal Waste Management Liability Act, in line with the Government Programme, to limit the responsibility imposed on municipalities mainly to waste arising from housing. I think this would be a good and positive proposal for the municipalities. The draft Waste Act proposes to implement the necessary changes in the allocation of responsibility for municipal waste management to implement the Government Programme. According to Article 32 of the Waste Act, the municipality must organise the waste management of the waste resulting from housing. The municipality is also responsible for the reception and treatment of hazardous waste from housing, and this should continue to be the case. I can tell you from experience that particular care must be taken with poisons and acids. The responsibility for organising municipal waste therefore forms the basis of social waste management, which ensures adequate waste management in all circumstances throughout the country. The appropriate recycling of waste must be invested. According to the proposal, recycling may increase in particular for waste managers whose operations generate both municipal waste and other waste, provided that a private waste management company is able to provide a comprehensive waste management service such as a wide range of sorting and recycling services. This point should be taken into account. Summer cottages are typical for use only in midsummer. When it takes only a few weeks a year at the cottage, the waste charge, which costs hundreds of euros, is annoying. In difficult areas, such as the archipelago, the regional collection point is often the only option for them. In other places, the cottage owner must get his own or a group vessel. One of the points to be taken into consideration in connection with this government proposal is how much waste is produced by the abandoned house. The desert houses and cottages are growing. Their owners are also obliged to join the organisation of waste management. Let me give you an example: residents have moved out of their apartment 15 years ago. Since then, the house has been empty. So the use of an empty house does not become waste. However, the waste levy must be paid in accordance with the agreement. If the waste charge on a residential property is claimed to be reasonable because of the non-residential nature of a building on the property, a separate written statement of the reasons for the non-residentiality must be attached to the application. When you call the Regional Waste Board’s office, you can get a form to apply for so - called mercy for a basic fee. The inviolability of the house must be established, accompanied by the statements of the health inspector and probably also of the real estate agent, a doctor, a psychiatrist and a mayor. At least some of these are chargeable statements. About ten years ago, an attempt was made to build expensive sewage systems in every house so that the Baltic Sea would not be contaminated with the waste from the cottage. Fortunately, reason finally won. Do you think it would also be appropriate to exempt abandoned houses and cottages from waste charges if there is no waste in them and if there is no waste? At least I myself am happy to pay for the services I need, but not for those services that I do not need and which are merely financial and arbitrary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u77	Madam President! There is one government objective that I strongly support and support until the end, and that is that we should be and remain the leader of the circular economy. It's a huge opportunity for us. It is a solution to many of the challenges facing us in terms of the environment, and it is also a huge opportunity for us to achieve sustainable economic growth. And from the point of view of the circular economy, I am concerned about this particular change in this proposal, which is what will happen to the responsibility of the municipality. When so many areas are removed from the responsibility of the municipality — waste from social services, education and public administration and services — there is a risk that it could actually act against the prerequisites of the circular economy when the field is fragmented and the whole of it and its design is broken down. Has this been taken into account? Has the transition period been considered to ensure that it does not act against this very important goal? It's a real worry. The second question, now that it is possible to get a view from the Minister, on this outsourcing of affiliated entities: How has it been estimated to affect municipal waste charges? When certain
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u78	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Tiilikainen for preparing the matter and for keeping at least the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on a very good map of where we are going and how we are preparing. It is a valuable thing that we have heard from the various stages and then, if necessary, we ourselves will have an impact on that preparation. What Mr Modig said: recycling is important, and the final objective, of course, is that less waste should be generated at all and then, if any, used effectively as a raw material. A few questions and comments on this proposal to Mr Tiilikainen. First of all, on page 16 of the government proposal, it is said that waste streams transferred to the waste producer may end up in energy use, in some cases abroad. It is not now known to be a terrible probability, but how does the Minister assess whether there is a risk of this kind of waste moving abroad and, in the worst case, dumping into vague targets, usually developing countries? How are we prepared for this? I'm sure we've been prepared, but if we could get a little focus on that. The second question concerns the environmental impact assessment on page 15. There is talk here that a reduction in waste management capacity could undermine security of supply in the event of various disruptions, such as epidemics or transport strikes. I was wondering if, if the capacity of the municipality was to be reduced in some respects, would not the private sector be replaced accordingly, and thus this security of supply might even improve when there are more operators on the market in Finland, both private and municipal. So the question of this security of supply and disruptions. There is still talk here that, in order to ensure security of supply, legislative preparations for waste management are pending in case of disruption. Would it be possible to obtain some kind of information about what it might contain? Then I'm gonna raise one of the concerns of the newspaper article. In January, the morning paper wrote the 8th of January with the title "Sive municipal waste management for private individuals". And here you will find some of these threats, which have been painted, and one is that — a direct quote — that “municipal waste disposal facilities have estimated that waste charges will have to be increased by 10-30%”. So this is a brief hold on this case. And I understand that this increase, if this were to happen, would mainly apply to households. Is this concern justified, and is it for the whole of Finland or for Pirkanmaa alone? How does the Minister see this? As a whole, I welcome the proposal and I am sure that we will look further into it in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which will make a report on this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u79	Mr President! The aim of the Waste Act is to reduce the amount and harmfulness of waste and to promote the sustainable use of natural resources and to ensure effective waste management. That is what this proposal is all about, and I am sure that this is only a small part of the whole, where we are going all the time. It is good that this law has now made it clear that the aim is to ensure that the proper management of waste in the whole country will continue to be in order, even if there is increased competition, quite a lot. What is important is that we have a system operating throughout the country, but now we have to try to organise better systems. At the moment, we need to improve competition in all areas, and European legislation, the procurement law and so on also oblige us to increase competition. But competition is not just the reason that these things are being done, but that we need to think about how we can recycle our waste. We have a whole new way of dealing with them anyway. The share of private operators will increase in the future, and it is certainly necessary to move forward on that side. What is important and good is that public and private will continue to work together, and more and more will certainly also be moved towards private people in such a way that they also have a responsibility for our common interests. There will certainly be new operating models, and what are these new operating models now? What about recycling, and how will waste be treated, what will it become as products? When I talk about products, without changing this system and systems, we will not be able to move forward in waste management. What effect will this proposal have, then, on our well-functioning systems? After all, we currently have systems that really work on the waste management side. Nowhere in Finland is left in the corners, but they are moving forward. But waste — is it ultimately waste, or is it raw material? We have a fear that this traditional, well-managed waste management system in the municipalities will be destroyed here. But how can we make sure of this? After all, at the time of the preparation of this law, we have had much to say about how we are going forward: Is this really a sensible system? How much will it cost to carry out municipal tasks in the future? How do you handle what kind of garbage business? However, I believe that this will ensure that we also manage the traditional services of the municipalities at reasonable cost, that we ordinary consumers will not have to pay absurd fees in the future. Fortunately, municipalities retain secondary responsibility that no one will be left in the corners of the waste. But what will this waste sector be in the future? It is hoped that when we go ten years ahead, we will no longer use the word ‘waste’ to say ‘raw material’. So it's our job to take good care of the raw material. By the way, our waste is already quite pure raw materials. In these cold conditions we do not have much real waste anymore, we have the opportunity to handle it in a very good way and see what can be done about it — what and in what way should we collect, what products can we produce? The fact that they are being burned is certainly the last option. We can do all the sensible things with those raw materials, so we can recycle, reuse and find a whole new kind of raw material.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u80	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for the presentation of this government proposal. I would like to ask a few questions and comments to the Minister. I agree with the previous speaker, Mrs Maijala, that if we think about the current situation, but also about the near future, the waste is no longer a waste, it is a raw material. Now we are in a quite advanced phase in Finland for all the technologies that can divide waste into different fractions. They can be medicines, they can be energy, they can be recycled products, they can be equivalent. I believe that this must now also be taken into account in this presentation of the Waste Act, and in fact I challenge whether it has been sufficiently taken into account that waste is no longer waste but only waste with a certain small fraction. When we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy went through the procurement law, we wanted to make very strict limits on the extent to which municipal companies can operate on the market — but we should act on the market if we assume that the waste is no longer waste but raw material — and that is why we even made very strict limits on operating under the same conditions, because it seems that the waste is becoming such a raw material that it is also priced. As a result, there is some concern on the part of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that very long transition periods have been put in place, which perhaps lose out on what could be done here, that we should be in a certain way in advance and in a very forward-looking world in terms of how waste will be handled in the future, and in relation to this circular economy, incineration is almost the last thing to be done. In Finland, we genuinely need pilots and genuinely projects that enable us to show the world that Finnish technology is capable of turning waste into something completely different, i.e. different products from the circular economy. That is why this first question actually relates to the need for such long transition periods because the public sector, municipal waste management companies, is somehow adapting to this and, secondly, whether it involves a certain loss of leadership. The question then arises as to whether this government proposal will genuinely contribute to the circular economy. This is a good reform in relation to this market place if we can use this market place to show that the waste would go — or so-called waste, the present raw material — to the right place where there would really be more value than incineration. This is the kind of debate I would also like to raise here, Minister, that we will jointly analyse what would be the right situation for waste management in Finland. There may not be enough bio in the world to talk about a bioeconomy, but there is plenty of waste. If you are the first to know how to make the waste into such a form or to put it into such a cycle that it genuinely saves nature, I think it would be worth doing. And this law — I challenge: Does it contribute well enough to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u81	Let us take one floor, then the Minister will reply, and then we will continue. So now, Mr Adlercreutz, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u82	Irade the Talman! This proposal dates back to the so-called strategic government programme, which, surprisingly, has such very technical records of how things should be done. I would see that such an objective, which speaks directly of municipal waste management and what it involves, does not seem to be a very strategic objective. However, promoting the circular economy as such is certainly a strategic objective. Well, it has already been limited in the Government Programme in this way, which is now having consequences in this proposal, which has consequences, many of which are of the opinion that they do not contribute to the circular economy and to sound waste management. After all, such waste treatment facilities are very heavy infras to which municipalities have invested a great deal of money. Their future is now partly unclear when restricting the municipality’s market-based activities, which, as a rule, have arisen from the need for different parts of Finland. We have very different localities where there are different quantities of private operators available, and there has then been a need to create a municipal market economy, because there has been a need for it. Well, it is now limited to 5% — first to 10, then to 5 — and can have surprising consequences that may not necessarily contribute to this circular economy. In other words, I hope that, now that this is being assessed — and of course the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has perhaps had an economic perspective, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has had another point of view here, perhaps more focus on environmental issues, i.e. the circular economy — these should now in some way be compatible. Now that we're talking about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u83	Minister's answer, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u84	Thank you, Mr President. A few questions and worries about what came over here. Let me start with that question by Mr Modig, the fear that this is not going to cause too much fragmentation with the restrictions. The same is true of these concerns as to whether payments will rise, or, on the other hand, the length of transitional periods. So it must now be noted that 90% of the waste management currently carried out by municipal monopoly companies remains there, and about 10% of this volume is automatically no longer on the exclusive territory of municipalities, but, due to market failure, a large proportion of these waste will certainly continue to be dealt with by municipal companies somewhere in the country. In other words, there is no very great fragmentation here, and that is something that will also be taken care of by this long transition period, something which Mr Jaskari and Mr Adlercreutz spoke of from a completely different point of view, approaching the same problem. One considers that the long transition period is too rigid and the other wonders whether this long transition period will be enough, with the 5% exit limit behind it, to safeguard the profitable rotation and depreciation of municipal investments. There is a delicate balance and a search for a golden middle road between many different points of view, and I personally am very pleased with this presentation. Concerns about the increase in payments: Some waste disposal associations thought that a couple of percent, some even threw that 30% of the waste is now increasing. I'm leaving a matchbook count like this. If 10 per cent of turnover disappears, the cost of its 10 per cent turnover will also be eliminated. I do not think it is enough to explain that such a change would become very high up pressure. Of course, the circumstances are different, but especially where the market does not work, where there are no such private services, municipalities or municipal companies are likely to continue to handle the same amount of waste under that subsidiary liability as before, so that this law will not put any pressure on the rise in prices. I am very moderate and confident in that that this law should not create pressure on prices unless, under the pretext of this, we want to go ahead and increase prices. President! If allowed again, then this reflection on the progress of the circular economy. Of course, this is only one legislative project that we have promoted the circular economy. The national waste plan has been revised, for example, the Land Construction Regulation on large downstream volumes has been amended, where the use of industrial ashes, slags, various kinds of mulch in construction will be facilitated in the spirit of the circular economy. We have also financed various pilot projects in the recycling of municipal waste, and there is preparation for separate collection obligations to increase it. In other words, this is only one part that ensures effective waste management, and at the same time opens up a little more opportunities for private operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u86	Madam President! I also have some concerns about this proposal, and I am a little critical of Mr Jaskar's speech as well as of the Minister's reply just now, for example, whether it will affect the price that, if you have 10% of turnover away, you will lose 10% of the cost. That's not how it works in business. They'll keep the fixed costs there. The staff costs will be maintained unless people are laid off. Equipment costs will be maintained unless the equipment is sold. That's the way it works in the corporate world. I am also concerned about this issue of security of supply. After all, when the potential conditions are taken away from the area where the municipal waste management company manages, it is a question of security of supply. This is the case in sparsely populated areas, where small businesses often manage this waste management collection and the municipal waste management company then bears responsibility for that after-treatment. For households, this may mean pressure on prices if municipal waste companies are deprived of operating conditions, but of course there is also scope for this. This offers a large private waste disposal company this business opportunity, which was raised here by the representatives of Jaskari and Maijala in their own speeches. It is true that waste will be a raw material in the future and will be a hard-core business, and whoever takes on its business will certainly do it on market terms, but it will not do it in areas where the market will not be created, but it will still be the responsibility of this municipal company to manage waste management. That this is a tricky issue in many ways, and I hope that the committee will pay particular attention to these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u87	Madam President! The aim of the Government proposal is to support the circular economy, and the reform aims to promote competition in the waste sector and also business activities. The fact is that substances currently classified as waste can be raw materials for the future and can even replace our natural resources in the future. There is a very different situation in different parts of Finland, which is why I believe that the waste sector must be a public service and can also be a business activity. It is a good thing that this law guarantees that public service if that business activity does not exist there. There is also a need for cooperation in this area in order to achieve those recycling targets that have been set in Finland. Here, Mr Jaskari, in his own speech, criticises a few things. As far as I am concerned, it is good that, according to the Government’s proposal, the municipal waste management company can carry out up to 10 % of its business on market terms until the end of 2029 without compromising its unit position. That is a good thing, and this has been the subject of debate, and I believe that the coming of this bill, which is now before us, was somewhat prolonged on this issue too, but it is good that this is the case. It is also good for me that the EUR 500000 limit under the Procurement Act is not now applicable to this waste law. That's a very good thing. There was a lot of criticism about this. All in all, this reform of the Waste Act is twofold. Minister Tiilikainen, you in your own opening address
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u88	Mr President! The objectives of the Act are good: to develop the waste market, to maintain the priority of waste management and to increase recycling. But it is true that this is likely to increase the cost to households in sparsely populated areas. When the previous Waste Act came into force, I myself worked at the waste management company to ensure that it was done in accordance with the law and to prepare the related changes. After all, at the time, these companies, which were active in the sector, simply wanted to pick it up on top of the cream and left the municipality with the places where it was difficult to apply or where the waste was small. I think this is going to happen exactly the same way, and that is why I would like to see this considered on a regional basis too, when we know of certain regions, for example, on the basis of the future provinces, how this limit of 5 and 10 % market-based sales could be applied, because it is quite clear that certain costs are fixed, and even if the share of the market is reduced to 10 %, they will not be reduced in the same proportion. The maintenance of landfills is really expensive, the equipment is expensive, it goes around the same routes, even if it does not collect the waste from everywhere. And, unfortunately, I think this will result in an increase in household waste charges, because the Waste Act clearly states that waste treatment charges must be collected from the waste source, they cannot be subsidised by the municipality. This is what's gonna happen. This was also seen in the fact that people wanted to recycle, but when the recycling of packaging waste fell under the responsibility of producers, the recycling points disappeared.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u89	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Now, in this government proposal, there are clear points which have a very significant impact on municipalities and especially on municipal residents and public waste-producing operators, such as hospitals, and also on businesses. This government proposal tightens this permitted exit significantly more stringent than would be required by the EU Procurement Directive, i.e. to limit that exit to 10% until the last day of December 2029 and then permanently to 5% as from 1 January 2030, while this EU Procurement Directive allows for 20% of turnover to be sold out. I do not think that the more stringent limit than this EU directive is at all appropriate or justified. This government proposal is also very exceptional on a larger, European scale, and it is not at all known that any other EU country is introducing such strict restrictions on foreclosure. Or does the Minister have better information about this? Let me take the example of our situation in Mikkeli. It is a city with 55,000 inhabitants in Eastern Finland, which owns a waste station. Now, with this law, we are undermining the operating possibilities of our municipal waste station and this government proposal will increase waste management costs in this whole chain. I also believe that, when we talk about achieving recycling targets, this will not help to reduce municipal responsibility either. There is experience and evidence of this from other parts of the world, such as Sweden, Denmark and Austria, which have raised the recycling rate with extensive municipal responsibility, whereas Ireland and Norway, which have limited municipal responsibility, have blocked the circular economy. Indeed, these municipal waste management companies can and will be the platforms and engines of many innovations for the circular economy, provided that legislation allows them to do so. I also believe that limiting the market-based operation of municipal waste facilities in accordance with this proposal will reduce the opportunities for waste-producing companies in many municipalities to choose where the waste goes and also the conditions for this subsidiary liability, i.e. this TSV service. The benefits of this government's proposal will be the large waste treatment service providers and the transport companies, which will certainly increase transport, but the costs will then increase for the rest of us. At the moment, we have the opportunity locally to receive waste and to obtain turnover and work in the region. Now, with this proposal, there is a risk that this work and the euro will move away from the locality through large operators. Now we have also been able to keep the cost of receiving waste from housing at a very moderate level, precisely because it has been possible to receive it from residents, businesses, institutions and so on. This possibility will now be missed, and then the result of municipal waste management companies will also be reduced and the opportunity to invest will also be reduced. This unnecessarily strict restriction also undermines many forms of cooperation. At the moment, when there is really a wide variety of business cooperation in municipal waste management companies — and it could be expanded even further if there were more material flow — then with this government proposal this is going in the opposite direction. I do not welcome this proposal and I hope that the committee will pay attention to these issues which I raised here and try to make this proposal better and to ensure it too, because the purpose of this legislation is, however, to ensure the proper management of waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u90	Madam President! In conclusion, I would like to mention that I believe that this long transition period is extremely good in this proposal and necessary in order to enable municipal waste management companies, small businesses working with these municipal waste management companies, to prepare for this change, which is inevitably ahead of us in the waste sector and in the business raw materials sector of the future, and it will certainly provide additional opportunities and new options, and that is why this transition period is important. At the moment, I think that municipal waste management in Finland is working very well, and in that sense it is also important that this cooperation with small entrepreneurs, who work with these companies there, should continue. To conclude, I would like to bring this small entrepreneur's point of view to the effect that this competitive situation would not lead to large international waste companies coming to the market alone to deal with this issue, but would allow a small Finnish entrepreneur to still be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u91	Madam President! I will continue with this transitional period. In 2011, the Finnish Parliament had a heated debate on the mining law, and in connection with it there was also a strong turnaround at the end of the road, especially with regard to the Lemmenjoki National Park. It was there that it was a question of whether the national park was allowed to practice mechanical gold mining. Well, basically, nothing should be done on the machine at the national park, but because it was the business of entrepreneurs, they had invested significant sums in machinery and equipment, the whole family's livelihoods are tied up in it and the future, so it is of course reasonable that they were given a transitional period of about nine years in that case, when they were then able to take off this stock of equipment. It is the principle of such a rule of law, that the interests of companies are also taken into account, that legislation is predictable and that, from the national economy's point of view, when big investments have been made, they will be used up. I understand that this is exactly the same issue. Municipal waste companies have invested millions and millions in expensive equipment and buildings, and against that background the transition period until the end of 2029 seems quite justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u92	Madam President! In several speeches, attention has also been paid to the ability of municipal waste companies to operate in the future, and I would also like to stress that they must also be able to function effectively and well in the future. When it comes to customer charges and their possible increase, I personally hope that this government proposal will not at least help to increase them. Rather, I believe that in the future this will make it possible to adjust their charges to a very low level when it becomes market-based competition. There has also been talk here of this market-based activity in municipal-run waste management companies. The fact is that the majority of municipal companies are already operating below that 10% threshold, and I think there are about half a dozen municipal companies that are currently crossing that 10% limit. However, it is a statistical fact. Of course, it is also noteworthy at the moment how those waste management companies keep their accounts and how they can bring out what is disposal and its basic activities, and it should also be clarified in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u93	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister a few more questions. First of all, the fact that we are most concerned about how to ensure affordable waste collection in the future, including in our Savukoski, as in the rest of the sparsely populated area. The second point, which concerns me very much, is in Article 1 of the Waste Act. In other words, the objective of the law is that this law should aim to reduce the generation and quantity of waste, and the truth is that, at the moment, the existing waste law does not provide sufficient incentives to reduce the generation and generation of waste. Are there still some changes to the Waste Act, things to make a real impact on the fact that waste is going to start to form less in Finland than in the past?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u94	And then the Minister's answer, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-08-ps-3.u95	Mr President! A few comments to Mr Kiuru: You have already asked whether there is a risk of such an increase in exports or dumping. We have a waste shipment regulation that prevents this type of activity, so there is no concern in that respect. You are also considering security of supply in the event of disruption, and there is a separate legislative process under way at the Ministry of the Environment. I would like to thank the representatives very much for such a balanced referral debate and for a debate that brings many perspectives. This is the point of view of public waste management facilities, this is the perspective of companies, the proposal has sought the best possible middle ground, which will ensure the potential of the public operator in the future. That 10% exit limit, which some representatives spoke about, is quite similar to the average current situation. In other words, it will not radically change the business opportunity immediately, and that transitional period is indeed long enough to cover the fixed costs and to make sufficient use of these large investments. Mr Torniainen raised this accountancy issue and, in addition to the market place, it is, in this second stage, an issue which will be clarified in order to verify its absence or its existence. A few more comments: Prevention or reduction of waste generation may then be the result of a much larger package of measures. The national waste plan, which has just been renewed, sets out a dozen measures, targets that will then push ahead well with this big goal. This concern about services in sparsely populated areas or just a balance between small businesses and larger companies, the more people thought: In fact, the perspective of small companies is important as customers of the waste management service, but also as operators. It is precisely that secondary responsibility, where the municipality always has the responsibility to provide the waste management service to companies operating in the areas where the market-based service is not available, that is a very important service for a large number of Finnish companies across the country. On the other hand, this possibility of being an operator will continue to work with both the public operator and private operators, for example in these transports, is an important aspect, and several representatives have raised it. On the subject of medical and educational waste, which is now to be limited: They will therefore be taken out so that they are no longer exclusive to municipalities, but these municipal institutions may, of course, be involved in the competition to continue to provide those services. And it is not so easy for companies to enter this market. I believe that these waste facilities will be able to cope with these too. Of course, there should be a period of time for these limits, how much of the competitive outs will be allowed. I am sure that this committee will have a good opportunity to deal with this in a diverse way and to produce a good report which will then help to implement the law. And that long transition period guarantees that nothing radical in this field will happen.
