ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u2	Madam President! I present the Annual Activity Report of Kela’s delegates for 2017. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] I would like to highlight the relevant figures, which describe Kela’s activities for the year, and to begin with, Kela’s welfare benefit expenditure amounted to nearly EUR 15 billion in the reporting year. Kela's delegates have followed the growth in Kela's operating expenditure and have considered it important that operating expenditure should remain below 3% of total expenditure, and this has been the case for many years. Now we have 3.1% of that number, which means that the target has been broadly met. The number of employees in Kela has increased significantly during the reporting year, i.e. by around 540 persons, which means that Kela’s personnel are already well on top of 7,000. A major reason for this increase is the transfer of basic income support to Kela during the reporting year. The delegates have closely monitored the key figures for well-being at work of Kela's employees, and we welcome the fact that those indicators have turned to growth since a small fall – the previous reporting year was a major organisational change for the whole of Kela. About 87 per cent of Kela considered that Kela is a good job. In particular, the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health has followed the sickness absenteeism rate of Kela's employees, which decreased slightly from the previous one. I would like to point out here that the delegates consider it important that Kela is an exemplary employer. Securing Kela’s operating conditions is important for everyone in Finland, if you are concerned with Kela’s benefits and Kela’s operations, as well as the everyday life of almost everyone in Finland. The Kela transfer of basic income support affected Kela's operations in many ways, and the number of services also increased in all service channels, especially at the beginning of the year, when both Kela's offices and Kela's telephone services were heavily congested and queues were long. The queues exceeded the legal amount as to what people would have expected. The delegates followed the matter closely, and I can say that Kela's Board of Directors took action quickly and permission for additional recruitment to Kela's management was given and more resources were immediately received for customer service from the beginning of spring. The competence of Kela’s employees in the new benefit also increased, which led to a calming down of the situation. But what is striking is that the number of calls received from Kela rose from 2.5 million to 4 million in the reporting year. Kela is a strong promoter of digitalisation, and when much has been said about services and digitalisation, it is a pleasure to note that during the reporting year the number of visitors to Kela's open online service increased to 40 million, i.e. there were 10 million more visitors and 66 per cent of the applications received to Kela were made online. And what is important, of course, is that it is the responsibility of Kela's delegates to monitor that services can be reached equally throughout the country – during the reporting year 18 Virtu points were introduced in Northern Finland, where customers can handle Kela as a remote service. But it is quite clear that not all citizens can access online services. That is not the intention either, and a particular challenge It is important for the Social Insurance Institution to develop services that will certainly reach everyone. The personal appointment booking service and the telephone service are available, and the Kela service network, which has been closely monitored by the Parliament and the representatives of Parliament, is still very comprehensive: 182 offices, and there are 141 joint service and service points. The councilmen follow customer satisfaction closely, and on a scale of 0 to 10 it is 7.5. The weakest area is the ease of service and the adequacy of access to information in Kela. The council members consider it necessary to develop Kela's operations on the basis of customer satisfaction surveys, and customer boards are in operation so that information comes from the views and services of Finnish customers, i.e. all Kela's customers, can be developed customer-oriented and accessible to all users of the service at all ages. Mr President! The employees particularly closely monitor the legality of Kela's operations and that the benefits are paid in accordance with the law. In Kela, there are also passing times, or goals, as to how people get benefits. In the reporting year, with the exception of basic income support, those times were reached, but I am concerned that basic income support is such a different type of benefit from what Kela has had and continues to pose a challenge and that it is a risk that it will contribute to slowing down the payment of other benefits. This needs to be closely monitored. People in the most difficult position must receive Kela's benefits in good time without delay. The basic income support was indeed transferred to the Social Insurance Institution during the reporting year, and when it became apparent from the beginning of the year that the statutory claim for a period of 7 working days was exceeded, the delegates met weekly and required urgent action by the management of Kela in order to reach the legal deadline. And when that was achieved, we also felt that it was necessary for a check to be carried out in Kela on the actions that led to the failure of that transfer of basic income support. After hearing the internal audit report in Kela, we delegates stated that it is also justified to request an external evaluation of the transfer of basic income support. The results of its external evaluation also raised issues which were not raised in the internal audit. It stated, as stated in the report, for example, shortcomings in Kela's risk management and also shortcomings in project management and shortcomings in the way information flows from that project level to the top management and the Director General. We required the Kela Government to look at the measures taken to correct these matters in Kela, and now this work is being done in the Social Insurance Institution. Mr President! I raise my concern that when Kela's role has changed since the beginning of the period from the National Pension Payment Institute to an operator that affects almost everyone in Finland, the legislation has not gone along with it, i.e. the legislation on Kela has fallen behind. When I started as the chairman of the delegates, we argued that the needs for legislative change need to be assessed within Kela. We delegates dealt with the matter together and then delivered that clause change request to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and it is still there. Here I would like to stress that the government would bring those necessary legislative changes to the Social Insurance Institution before Parliament without delay. There are a lot of things there, for example, that Kela should apply the general principles of state administration so that, for example, the leadership is selected for a fixed term. It cannot be done now, because this is not the case in the legislation. Kela's organisation has been reformed, for example, the regional government has been abolished, but legislation still has that condition. In other words, this situation, that the law does not correspond to the actual situation, must be corrected, and I hope that this bill will be brought to Parliament, and that legislative reform is also necessary because the Social Insurance Institution can be developed. In addition, the delegates stated that there was a place for greater evaluation. At the moment, Kela's benefits are financed 80% of the state budget, but the National Audit Office, for example, does not extend to the Social Insurance Institution. We stated that it was important to assess the administration of Kela, the relationship of jurisdiction, the adequacy of Kela's supervision and the whole of this entity. That is why we have set up a task force. It was no longer set this year, but I say so because at the end of September that working group will report. I think it is justified that a parliamentary working party should be set up, which will then jointly evaluate this whole Kela package as a whole. I would like to thank the staff of the Social Insurance Institution for their lengthening, which means that the year of operation has been challenging.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u3	Let us do so in such a way that, now that we have had long-awaited speeches, we start with speeches, and when we already know that time is running out, we shall do so in a way that two speeches are made, Mr Heinonen and Mr Keränen will take the floor, then a short debate, and Mr Räsänen will start the relapse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u4	Madam President! This was a good idea. I strongly support it. Ms Sarkomaa, the Chairman of Kela's delegates, presented this comprehensive package in a good way. I myself would like to highlight above all the significant increase in the use of the Kela.fi pages. There were still less than 20 million visits to the website in 2012 and now there are over 40 million in the reporting year 2017, which means that in a few years the use of electronic services has more than doubled. It becomes important that these pages are user-friendly but also network-free. Kela has an exceptionally large number of users who need unhindered online services, and Kela has been a good pointer here. Mr President! In the report year 2017, Kela taxis still function well, but this year the situation has been different. The Kela taxis were put out for competition last summer and in each province the Kela taxis became their own service provider. We parliamentarians have received a lot of feedback on this issue, even though it belongs to Kela. There is much that has not been able to order a Kela taxi, that the car has been waiting too long, and very often the car has not arrived at all. The problems of the transitional period are, of course, always acceptable in some way, but these problems of Kela taxis have been excessive and it has been good that the Chairman of Kela's delegates, Mr Sarkomaa, has also been able to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u5	Then there is the second point. — Mr Keränen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u6	Madam President! The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Sarkomaa, presented this report quite well, so I will just raise a few points here. Kela’s delegates are responsible for supervising Kela’s operations. The delegates will also be able to make proposals on Kela or on proposals and development of social security legislation. Authorising officers should not interfere, and it is not up to the delegates to interfere in the operational activities of Kela. Kela makes decisions independently, Kela has an external Board of Directors, which consists of government professionals and stakeholders, and the Board of Directors takes the operational decisions of Kela. The supervision is carried out mainly by Kela's delegates at their general meetings, but also by familiarising themselves with the various activities and offices of Kela. The meetings cover Kela's operations, current issues, benefit systems and funding, etc. Mr President! I will just raise a few points when Mr Sarkomaa presented the matter quite well: In the current review year 2017, the Kela delegates followed very closely the transfer of basic income support to Kela and how it succeeded. Fortunately, the problems were resolved reasonably quickly by the summer. Social protection, and in particular social issues, have also been the subject of authorised discussions. As Mr Sarkomaa says, the delegates also discussed the development of Kela, which led to the setting up of a working group this year. Mr President! That taxi issue will then be dealt with next year in connection with the next report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u9	And then we go to the debatable debat in such a way that there will be some time left if the Minister wishes to reply, then the floor will also be addressed to him. And then we're done on the side.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u10	Mr President! These reforms presented by Mr Sarkomaa are indeed necessary and I am indeed encouraging them to move forward quickly. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are now dealing with the activity report of Kela's delegates. There are 12 of these delegates, among whom there is no representative of the Left Alliance or of the Christian Democrats. When Kela is an institution under the Parliament and citizens contact representatives on various issues – for example, in 2017 on that issue of basic income support – when they imagine that representatives will be able to resolve those issues when they control the National Pension Institution, for example, the Christian Democrats or the Left Alliance have not had their own representative among the delegates there, and we cannot ask the government questions and we cannot leave any written questions because the Ministry is not responsible for it. I think that we really need to have a correction in order for that control to be real. Mr President! I would add that I believe that these parliamentary deliberations, also in view of the fact that this is an institution under the control of Parliament, are too weak. In other words, I think there should be an even more valuable place for these in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u11	Mr President! The Social Insurance Institution, Kela, is an institution subject to Parliament. As the law says, the delegates have a central, important role to play as an overseer. As an introduction to this: the power and power that the delegates have is to be pondered, and it is to be asked whether it is really and truly. Kela works amazingly well in view of the fact that Kela's decisions affect every Finn sooner or later, one way or another. Those masses in the processing volumes are of the size that, despite the problems, Kela can be thanked for many things. I was somewhat unclear whether the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Sarkomaa, spoke at the end of his speech in his own name or in the name of the delegates, when you were thinking out loud about whether, for example, something should be done about this control system and, above all, about this regime. We are in a situation where, for example, during Parliamentary Question Time, the Minister could answer all the questions about Kela, that the responsibility lies with Kela, in a situation where the Minister's responsibility is drummed here when the taxi does not travel or the reimbursement of medicines is delayed — something must be done about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u13	Mr President! The year 2017 was indeed exceptionally difficult for Kela. The transfer of income support did not work without problems, and it is therefore important that Kela's Board of Governors made a separate report on the matter. It has to be said that Kela has become a major competitor. We have also heard sad stories about the consequences of competitive tendering, for example, in terms of rehabilitation over the past year. I feel that in the future, Kela's delegates must also be better informed about Kela's competitions. The latest competition was for the brokerage centres for the Kela rides, and we know the outcome. Yesterday we heard from Minister Berner that he accused Kela of what is happening with regard to the Kela rides. Minister Mattila, is it really the case that Kela did not warn in advance what kind of mess would happen if the timetable were to be completed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u14	Madam President! Mr Sarkomaa, you raised all the issues that I had written in my own speech, and so did Mr Niilo Keränen, who thought the same things about it, so I shall now focus on what has happened at the moment. I will no longer go there to the problems of history and income support, but to these Kela rides and to the way in which we will really read the report in a year's time. How do you intervene now to have those elevator taxis, to run out of phone lines, to get the caller through the phone to order the taxi, and then to get taxi rides for the taxi driver, which is not the idea to take it or leave it? Then let me ask you about this: management for a limited period of time: Are there political appointments, and are there still good brothers' clubs? When you have set up a working group of experts on this sort of issue to investigate supervision, position and jurisdiction, is it good that the leadership should be on a fixed-term basis, or is it not good? What do you think, Minister, is why this should be done?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u15	Two more replies before the Minister's reply. At this point, representatives of Zyskowicz and Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u16	Madam President! It certainly did not go any further than in Strömsö this transfer of income support from Kela and the start of Kela in that case. Fortunately, Kela’s delegates, under the leadership of its energetic chairman, Mr Sarkomaa, took this difficult situation very seriously and made every effort to promote the proper and timely functioning of the payment of income support from Kela. It is an intolerable situation that, in fact, the poorest people, for whom income support is involved, had to queue for this support in excess of the set time limits. As far as I am concerned, even the basic part of the income support should not have been transferred to Kela. It is not because of these problems, which were in this transitional period, but because, for example, the social work that municipalities are doing has now been separated and then this basic element of basic income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u17	Mr President! Two things now that the Minister of Responsibility is on the scene. First of all, how Kela can make a single section of the law without changing very harsh new income support decisions at the turn of the year. A case arose in which a distance parent, a distant parent, kept his three minor children at his home on two longer weekends from Friday until Monday, when Kela decided that from the turn of the year this father would receive less than 100 euros less income support from those weekends. No law has changed, but Kela made such a decision on her own, namely, rapping not only from the father receiving income support but also from those children. Second thing: I suppose there must be a final responsibility for Kela rides, Kela taxis, their overall coordination. A taximan contacted me from the west border and said that he has several thousand euros to pay and does not know when they will, and he had been waiting for two months for this money.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u18	Then the minister would have the opportunity to answer, three minutes at the most, and then we'll have to finish the quiet kitty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u19	Madam President! During the transfer of basic income support, Kela has been monitored from the Ministry, and it is also possible to obtain information about it from Kela. However, from the point of view of income support, this is a matter for the Minister for Basic Services, and this Kela transfer will certainly be closely monitored by the Ministry. Kela’s administrative expenses then belong to the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, and this will also be monitored from the budgetary point of view. With regard to this administration, as the President-in-Office of the Council has said — thanks for the presentation of this report for 2017 — I also agree that no administration can remain in place — nothing has been cut in stone. Time is changing, and administration must also change in time. It is not for me alone to decide what kind of report is to be made on the administration, but I personally welcome the idea that the Audit Committee will also make a contribution to this, and this work has also been carried out. I understand that taxi rides are talking a lot right now, and I do not think that anyone — Kela, not a Finnish official, neither the government nor anyone — has thought that there was a desire for a mess, chaos. I do not think that this can be the case. But I look at it from the point of view of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Yes, we did at the time, and originally the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health should perhaps have been wiser to keep the previous Kela taxi system as it is, despite the entry into force of the Transport Services Act. One big question relates to the social welfare reform and the timetable within which reforms and the development of Kela will be taken forward. Of course, it is clear that if we do a huge reform of social and health care and social services together with the regional reform, Kela, as an important player, must also be side by side, and I believe that these changes must be made so that they go along with this major reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u20	Does the Chairman of Kela's delegates wish to make a one-minute closing statement at this sitting?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u21	Chairman! With regard to these Kela taxis, Kela pays compensation and has put these taxis in competition. It is the responsibility of Kela's management to see that the brokering centres also keep its agreement, and this is something that needs to be carefully looked at. According to what I've been told, 98% of the rides are working now. I am very sorry that this has not worked out, and we delegates must also assess whether we are going to find out whether there was anything in the competition that could have been done better. The Competition Authority is already working on that. That's the information we received yesterday during Question Time. It is also necessary to consider whether legislative changes are necessary. This discussion shows that the provisions relating to Kela’s supervision and supervision need to be assessed. We must see how Kela's supervision works, and I am in favour of Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups in the future. But I hope that we will have that parliamentary working party and together we will be able to look at this whole thing. And I would also like to say that I hope that the necessary legislative changes which are in the ministry will be brought forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-14-ps-84.u22	For reasons of timing, proceedings and discussions in this context shall be suspended.
