ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u2	Madam President! The Government’s proposal implements the EU’s fourth railway package nationally, while at the same time implementing the overall reform of rail transport legislation. The fourth railway package of the EU consists of six EU acts adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in 2016. EU Member States must implement EU legislation at national level so that railway market requirements will enter into force from the beginning of 2019 at the latest and technical requirements by June 2019 at the latest. For these reasons, the new Railway Transport Act is proposed to enter into force from the beginning of 2019. Key changes to the Government proposal compared to the current regulation: The infrastructure manager shall include in the network statement to be published in December 2019 the arrangements necessary to ensure that all railway undertakings have equal access to railway capacity and infrastructure access for the provision of rail passenger transport services for the scheduling period beginning in December 2020. Instead of direct procurement, the competent authority should tender new contractual arrangements for rail passenger transport with public service obligations and with public funds as from December 2023 at the latest. Contractual arrangements with a public service obligation concluded before 3 December 2019 could remain in force until they have been agreed upon. Responsibilities, tasks and controls relating to the operation of rail transport and the management of the network shall be sufficiently differentiated in order to ensure fair access to the network for all railway undertakings. The role of the Railway Regulatory Body will be strengthened in the supervision of the railway market. In future, the safety certificate and marketing authorisation required of the railway operator must be applied for from the EU Railway Agency for all traffic within the territory of more than one EU Member State, and for traffic within only one Member State, the authorisation may be applied for from either the EU Agency or the national safety authority. The administrative burden on private track managers will be reduced by providing the possibility of a lighter national notification procedure than EU requirements and the authorisation procedure for the placing in service of rolling stock on the network. I would stress that rail legislation is mainly based on EU legislation, which means that the proposed Railway Transport Act does not contain national supplements, but when it is possible to offer administrative solutions that are lighter than EU legislation at national level, then they have been used in the government proposal. The Government’s proposal therefore does not include any additional obligations in relation to EU legislation or to the national plan for opening domestic rail passenger services to competition, previously adopted and presented by the Government. Upon entry into force, the proposed Railway Transport Act will repeal the existing Railway Act and the Urban Rail Transport Act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u3	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u4	Madam President! As far as transport is concerned, this parliamentary term has been quite a turmoil, you might say, and the arrival of new winds. There is a law on transport services, the structure of the agency is reformed, the activities are incorporated. Some changes have been more successful and others, I might say, very bad. Fortunately, not all ideas have reached Parliament. Minister Berner, I would like to thank you for the work of the parliamentary transport network group. Such preparation should be more appropriate in the whole parliamentary work. Now we begin with the Government's proposal for a rail transport law, namely the implementation of the EU's fourth railway package. This is a really big deal, even though the presentation at first only seems technical. I am concerned about a few things in this motion. I hope that in committee we will have peace of work on the law, and I also hope that the government parties will be prepared to modify the proposal if there is a need for it in consultation with experts. The main concern relates to the tendering of passenger transport. The Sipilä government has repeatedly used the EU as an excuse to promote its own ideological objectives. First, Metsähallitus was incorporated, although the EU did not demand it. A management register was then created, although the EU did not demand it either. And now the Sipilä Government wants to bring foreign railway companies onto the Finnish tracks quickly, even though the EU does not demand it. I would therefore like us in committee to look closely at what the fourth railway package really requires. Technical issues relating to railway safety and interoperability were already put in place last season under the leadership of Minister Kyllönen. However, the railway package does not require urgent tendering, but allows for the continuation of the direct examination for reasons such as ensuring the coverage and quality of the service. In my view, coverage and quality are excellently suited to Finland's long distances and there is no reason why existing agreements cannot be maintained until the end of these agreements. Madam President! Parliament Mr Kyllönen put a written question to the Commissioner today regarding the abolition of direct consideration. I hope that the Commissioner's response will also be brought to the committee's attention. It is also a matter of concern that VR's breaking-up and incorporation are being prepared for total confusion in the working groups, even though the matter has not been dealt with in Parliament at all. The earnings logic of the vehicle company, which is to be decoupled from VR, is still obscure. What kind of free competition is there that lets freighters come without the risk of rolling stock on the tracks paid for by taxpayers, on the locomotives and wagons paid for by taxpayers? According to all estimates, the privatisation of transport would not even lower ticket prices than with the most popular rail connections. The majority of Finland would enjoy increased ticket prices. The improvement of Finnish rail transport will not be solved by ideological competition. The operator shall have no relevance if the infrastructure is not in order. Both public and private operators can handle transport services well or badly, but it is certain that a foreign train company will take its own from ticket prices and export profits outside Finland’s borders. Rail connections, speed and reliability need to be improved. These problems are not solved by whether the operator is a private or a public operator. According to the study, competitive tendering does not bring benefits without proper investment in the bottlenecks on the lines. That is why it is good that the parliamentary transport network working party is preparing a financing plan and its preparation over the parliamentary term. It's time to take it easy. There is no need for speeding and no urgency with this work. We in the Committee on Transport and Communications need to go through this bill carefully and also properly to clarify EU requirements. And my deep hope is that the government parties will be able to cooperate when we go into this matter. We don't have a handbrake in the opposition. However, we hope for a moderate and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u5	Let's have a debat. I am also thinking of the Minister's timetable, so that it is certainly good to get all the lunches moving now. And now I ask you who want to participate in this debate to press the V button and stand up. — Representative Rossi will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank the honourable Member for his moderate speech, although it deserves a few critical assessments. The whole process of opening up rail transport competition in Finland has been prepared for some 20 years, so it cannot be said that there is any urgency at all. How, then, will it be visible to us in the next decade? Of course, the state railways, VR, will play a key role in the future, but all of this will also open up the possibility for domestic companies, and it is not the idea that this will now open up the railways to foreign companies. If there is no competition, then consumers will at least appear to pay for it on the transport side. This can be seen, among other things, in Finnair's ticket pricing, which can be seen in long distance bus pricing. Certain companies that have come to compete have also made a clear landing, and in a way the paradox is that VR’s profitability has improved since ticket prices have fallen, i.e. trains
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u7	Mr President! This is indeed the implementation of EU directives, with some room for manoeuvre, but not very much. Could you shed some light on where there might be room for manoeuvre, where it is not possible to lay such a solid foundation on the bottom? The second thing I am thinking about is that we have our own rail tracks different from what is in the rest of continental Europe. This does not put at risk the exception that we have received in the TEN-T networks, does it? This doesn't have any risk factors for something big like this, what's behind it? And thirdly, we already have a vehicle company. Is there any way that that vehicle company is going to make it possible for us to do this on our own track level in relation to the 4th Railway Package?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u8	Mr President! The statistics on these transport competitions and liberalisation are not in any way good. The liberalisation of taxi services, which we would therefore not have had to do, is now in such a state that no one is going to ask whether it was of any use, but rather that everyone is afraid of the disadvantages it will cause and will be corrected. Even the liberalisation of bus transport has not led to anything particularly good. It has caused problems of availability for bus and coach transport across the country. However, this liberalisation of rail transport is not in common with bus transport because the railway capacity is limited and concerns who will invest in the rail network, who will invest in it and whose money will be invested in it and who will expect to make a profit from it. The Finnish Parliament Group has already stated years ago that rail passenger transport should not be opened up to competition in Finland. Even if the EU is now forcing us to do this, there is no rush here and I think it should be opened up as little as possible. The national interest of Finland must be respected here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u9	Madam President! There is a lot of justification in this legislative text for opening up competition and the benefits that private operators bring in Europe. I find it rather problematic that this compares directly with a small number of Finland, where 90% of the tracks are monorailed. Why do there not appear to be any evidence of possible adverse effects in this legal text that have also occurred in Europe?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u10	Madam President! When it comes to the functioning of rail transport in Finland, let alone opening up competition in rail transport in the future, the most important and urgent thing to put in place is now sufficient railway capacity for the main railway line, especially between Helsinki and Tampere. It is particularly important for the main track and, at the same time, for Finland as a whole that there is sufficient capacity between them, because no laws, regulations, plans on paper, let alone the opening of competition, will improve the services if there is not enough room on the tracks to drive at high speeds for long distances and, on the other hand, to serve and improve the services in commuters or shorter distances. It is good that the government has made the records of this development of the link faster and that sufficient capacity is being built. I would like to ask: how is the government going to speed this up so that the planning process can be completed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u11	Värderade fru talman! Det är säkert så raus vi ska göra, att vi ska öppna spårtrafiken för kkonkurrens. Jag har ändå några frågor. Redan nu i dag vet vi att på kustbanan stannar ala tåg inte till exempel i Kyrkslätt, och då är min fråga: Hur ska vi i framtide kunna trygga servicenivån när det blir flera kkonkurrenter?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u12	Madam President! It is therefore a wide-ranging, almost 200-point government proposal which would replace not only the current Railway Act but also the 2016 Urban Rail Transport Act. I would venture to think that there are a number of technical points for the committee to assess on licensing and supervision authorities and on the processes of different authorisations. The most interesting are the independent decision-making and control powers of the rail regulatory body and the principles of allocation of railway capacity, as has already been pointed out in this Chamber. As regards track equipment, there are no changes to the proposal. LVM's inquiry into the use of Russian timber equipment in domestic traffic does not appear in the law, but Russian equipment is limited to cross-border traffic, as it is now. I would like to thank the Minister in particular for this consideration. However, as Mr Kymäläinen has said here, this proposal contains a large number of explanatory texts on opening up competition and on the interests of private operators in Europe. How are they justified when we are 90% monorailed in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u13	Madam President! We can be glad that VR's operations have improved and improved during this parliamentary term with Minister Berner as Minister – he overpriced himself out – and also Finnair, Finavia and so on. But yesterday there was news that there was a desire to improve rail traffic on the Turku-Tampere-Helsinki routes. We saw it as important. So an hour's train on the main track is important, but I would ask that, in order to benefit from these, it would be good to make regional rail transport work, including that. The Turku hour train will be of no use unless regional rail traffic works. Is it possible to have pilot projects in this respect now, experiments on how rail buses return to regional transport and, when the workforce needs to move, how can this be achieved in an enhanced way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u14	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister: has it been considered that these unprofitable sections of the line will be competitive? There will certainly be applicants for profitable sections of the track, but who will be responsible for unprofitable sections of the line? Will they eventually be left to the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u15	Mr President! This government proposal is based on this fourth railway package and contains a lot of technical details. Now this debate has gone a long way back to the rail policy debate we had last spring, and it can therefore be said that freight transport has already been opened up to competition in 2007. We have some players who serve industry, but what will be the future of passenger transport? After all, there are working groups and it is being considered, but could the Minister specify whether I recall that local transport equipment is in the capital region with the joint venture HSL and VR and that VR has the exclusive right to drive until 2023? I'm not sure about this. These municipalities and VR and the state will then consider how public transport in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area will be organised. What is happening in the rest of the country is completely open, and we all know that profitable transport is here in the South and elsewhere it requires support from society, and it makes sense that we should now calmly consider how to do it. I think VR's handling long-distance traffic very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u16	Madam President! In clear terms, the VR Board of Directors, which I chair, rejected what Mr Taimela rightly referred to here, namely the use of this Russian fleet, freight wagons for domestic traffic in Finland. In the future, it will, of course, be used in interconnectors, just as the agreement with the Russian Federation is. But there is no fear that it will come to internal transport, and this was a good view of this performance. As far as the situation is concerned, Mr Mäkelä suggested that ticket prices would not have fallen for customers, for example, from the exemption from bus and coach transport. I disagree with this: the ticket prices have fallen despite the fact that some were afraid that this would not happen. This proposal is quite technical, which is now on the table, but in general, as Chairman of the Board of Directors of VR, I am pleased that this liberalisation of competition has been carried out in good cooperation with both VR and its staff, and in that sense there is a common view that when competition is opened, it will not jeopardise VR's business secrets or weaken VR's competitiveness. I believe that the worker side is also very pleased with this solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u17	Madam President! I myself am a little critical of this increase in competition, because we know that we have a very large number of purchases, so how does it work in these sparsely populated regions? And as Mr Kymäläinen also pointed out, 90% are single tracks. But I myself would be interested, Minister, to hear your views on the development of the main railway line between Helsinki and Tampere. After all, we have the objective of an hour train, and at the moment we have such a weak track capacity that now that we have tried to increase speeds, the train basically goes past Hämeenlinna and Akaa and many others. This is not a sustainable solution in this HHT zone. In other words, what is the time frame and what are the measures that are now going to give us faster train connections between them, but yet to serve the needs of the people on this whole route?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u18	Mr President! The aim of this government proposal is to clarify regulation, reduce administrative obligations and also improve the functioning of the market. The Government's proposal is based, as has been pointed out, mainly on EU legislation. This government proposal does not include national supplements, but where there is the possibility of offering administrative solutions that are lighter than EU legislation at national level, it is also taken into account in this government proposal and it is hoped that it will also be followed up and raised. What has been raised here in the speeches about the rail network in Finland, I personally hope that the development of this whole rail network will be addressed, and I myself will also raise the issue of the development of the eastern track and of the railway network in south-east, eastern and northern Finland. It is also important for industry there. And the fact is that the number of passengers in rail transport has recently increased due to reduced ticket prices and the trains are quite full.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u19	Mr President! It is not surprising in itself that the Finnish Government takes directly what it receives from the EU and that Finland accepts interference in national regulation by EU action. However, open competition itself — and fair competition — must be supported. That is quite clear. But the reason why it is so difficult for rail transport is that the infrastructure, the maintenance of the infrastructure, is costing the state. It is never very profitable from the point of view of the state economy, and this problem is that now the splitting up of VR is Sipilä's Government's attack on Finnish rail transport. In my capacity as Chairman of the Management Board, the Board of Directors has also stated on several occasions that Finland is at the top of Europe’s quality, accuracy and cost-effectiveness in comparison. It is therefore very sad that this will be destroyed because of the interests of foreign companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u20	Mr President! Developing rail transport is a critical issue for Finland’s future. It is of great importance both from the point of view of our livelihoods and employment and climate issues. This piece of legislation now under discussion is one part of this, but just as Mr Nurminen asked earlier, I too am particularly concerned about how we are now ensuring the sustainability and operational capacity of our main networks in the future, so that the main networks, the backbone networks, are functioning. I would now like to ask how you intend to respond to this need for this main line, particularly for the Helsinki-Tampere route. A million dollars has now been spent on this planning, but that is not enough. So is the government already prepared to take action to get the funding needed to plan it? This benefits not only Helsinki-Tampere, but also traffic to Jyväskylä, Hämeenlinna, Vaasa, Seinäjoki and north. So this is a big, big question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u21	Madam President! I myself wanted to speak specifically on the question of rail capacity and I would also have asked about the fate of the main track. That is what the budget for next year is really planning for a million dollars, but of course this planning should be put in place very quickly, and that is why it would be very justified — since this is the busiest part of the railway in Finland and the whole of Finland will benefit, to a large extent from it, the various provinces — this one million planning money will be earmarked for this autumn's amending budget, so that we can get started now, and then a little more actual planning money will be reserved for next year's budget. And I would also have specified to the Minister: could you bring in a proposal that, as early as the amending budget, this planning money should be made available for this year in this very important, important, major project for the whole of Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u22	Madam President! It is extremely important to note that, now that this European directive is being implemented — and this is not the least of it — this Chamber has been doing this work for the last few years from morning to evening, one might say — but this is about to increase the traffic to the railways. That, of course, is always a good thing for road transport when heavy traffic passes on to iron wheels. Of course, we also have to make sure that... I don't see any risk, business risk. Of course, those who use the track and state equipment pay rent for it, that's obvious. This is no charity or free service, it is worth all critics remembering this, and when traffic on the railways increases, Finland will benefit from it. I very much hope that the government will, of course, keep it in mind that, especially in terms of the transport of wood, these individual lines in sparsely populated areas are being held in traffic here and there, because it is saving a huge amount of the road network.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u23	Mr President! I myself walk the main track every day from Hyvinkää with the train, and I would actually have been inspired by this debate to ask how this could be thought meaningfully if we thought that Finland as a whole would be able to live, that there would also be a little faster trains between the longer you go and the longer you go, because then, once again, it requires that we stop at several stations, but of course it takes time. Now that it is planned, there is only planning money, but is the state already wondering where the money for those tracks after planning itself will come from, because the planning has not yet brought any additional capacity. The second question, which also concerns my municipality of Hyvinkää, is this electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track. The Hanko- Hyvinkää road has a lot of truck traffic, and its by-pass lanes and others have not had the wind in their sails in recent years. This would be a very good addition for industry and businesses. How is this project going?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u24	And let's go for another round. Three more speeches, followed by a reply from the Minister. These three people are Rossi, Kymäläinen and Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u25	Madam President! I will return to that speech by Mrs Myllykoski when she said that the government is pushing for this for ideological reasons. I feel that you have an ideological reason to oppose this. On all other routes, we have more than government cars and vehicles, so this is as simple a question as you should have. Of course, the government should see to it that these routes are in order. I myself would like to stress that when there is a need in Finland to invest more than EUR 60 billion in infrastructure, how can we manage this in order to achieve investment on all our tracks — the Turku, Ostrobothnian railway, the Savo railway, the Karelian railway to St.Petersburg, the new eastern track, which is on its way. Well, whoever's operating there, time will tell. This is what we're living now, J.V. Snellmann's network's bottom is pretty far. There have been very few shortcut reforms and, in this respect, Parliament must look forward in a transparent way, and it is then up to the authorities to ensure that the traffic goes right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u26	Madam President! Indeed, the EU railway package is now being implemented. I would like to ask the Minister why we are making a regulatory body for rail transport, which is exercising this independent decision and control powers. If I have understood correctly, this is not what the EU requires of us. But I would like to take this debate further in that regard — we will probably consider it in committee, but how does the Minister see it — whether this right to search for railway capacity could be extended further. This means, for example, a ship and a carrier or other consignor, freight forwarder, combined transport operator or railway training providers, who have different reasons or commercial reasons for providing a public service and who would like to have access to this railway capacity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u27	Congressman Elo, and then we'll take Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u28	Madam President! This bill of law is indeed quite technical. It as such contributes to the conditions for equal competition on the tracks and ensures that all players have common rules of play. But here is what Mr Tavio said: I understand that he has a political need to put it this way, but it was quite a step off the rails. In other words, the Board of Directors of VR, which I am now chairing and in which he was a predecessor, is obviously represented as the head of VR and as an employee, and in my opinion, for example, the view of the Executive Director, Rolf Jansson or the employee party is not that they are dissatisfied with this situation. They have specifically said that they are satisfied with this solution. What time would inevitably have come on this issue, this liberalisation of competition in some way, has now been achieved. This respects both parties, both VR, its interests as a company, and then the needs of the employees, who I fully understand and have been supported by the blue as the process progresses. I would like to ask the Minister: is your view in any way different from mine in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u29	And Mr. Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u30	Madam President! Mr Ross: I admit, for purely ideological reasons, that I am opposed. And why? The public monopoly, which of course must be the responsibility of society, must not be used by private and foreign ownership. Yeah, we know what's happened with Caruna. We know what has happened with Digita, Destian, other public polypolies when they have been handed over to the private. Consumer prices have risen. And it is only natural that I, as a left-wing Member of Parliament, am opposed to this development, because it is unwarranted for the citizens and causes problems. Competition is good, and I do not dispute the fact that ticket prices have fallen. That's not the point. The only question now is that handing over the entire network to a private body would be a mistake, so that the decision-making power would be passed on from us to a private operator.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u31	All right, and then the minister will answer. Is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u32	Madam President! I would like to thank the representatives for their feedback and their lunches on this law. This is indeed a technical implementation of the EU directive. Congressman Jalonen asked how much room there was in this room. In fact, we have left all the room for manoeuvre in this bill, and we have not really taken advantage of the possibility that we could have had at national level, to produce certain blackmails there. In other words, this also leaves all the possibilities open to the next decision-makers and is, in fact, purely implemented as it has been presented. The opening up of competition in rail transport, which has raised a great deal of debate: I would also like to remind you that our decision is such that it is possible to implement it until 2026. So the long and peaceful process is going on. We have also agreed in a good spirit with the company and trade union organisations that this implementation will start gradually and will start precisely with the kind of transport in which the state has to purchase and, in any case, buy that transport, and it is also justified at that point that the State will then be able to compete for the service it has purchased. This is probably also in the interests of the taxpayer, i.e. the best possible transport volume for the taxpayer's use of the euro. In time, when we justified this opening-up of rail transport competition, we justified it on three main points: first of all, we justified the need for the State to have the opportunity to tender for the transport it bought. The second thing we have also used to justify this is what Mr Ala-Nissila mentioned, which is that I also want to make it possible to start up regional and regional transport. In fact, it is today that a question has been sent to all the regions about the needs and the state of will in this context. The third point is that when we need to make significant investments in the rail infrastructure, such as the development of the main track, the Turku-hour train or the east track, then it is also important that we also have the possibility of tendering the operation which may affect the financial system and the financing model that can be organised for such large investments. That is why it has been important for us to be on the move in good time with the opening up of rail competition, so that we, on its side, can also promote the procurement procedures for these large projects and also the way in which they will be financed in the future. HSL's tendering starts in 2021, and we already have a railway regulator within Trafi, and that is what the EU requires of us. So this is the answer for the main track, as well as for the Turku hour train and the east track. For all of these, we are currently running a well-detailed impact assessment at the Ministry, an assessment of how these projects could be launched, so that they can also be genuinely mobilised. I hope that we will really have the opportunity to make forward-looking decisions in order to promote these projects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u33	Now let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u34	Mr President! The development of rail transport and the renewal of the Finnish network are critical issues from the perspective of the country's vitality, labour mobility and climate objectives. This should also be taken into account when considering amendments to the Rail Transport Act and the Transport Services Act in the referral debate. The SDP is in favour of open competition on the tracks, in which open access in market-based traffic can compete in parallel with passengers. We have not supported the models previously presented, where VR’s market-driven passenger and freight traffic would have been auctioned by the state owner at regional auctions, creating regional monopolies and using VR’s equipment. VR and the Ministry of Transport and Communications reached an agreement on this in the spring, and now it is planned to separate from the current VR monopoly agreement only local transport outside the HSL region of Southern Finland, where the equipment, maintenance and station buildings needed for competitive tendering will be differentiated. This covers the requirement of competition neutrality for publicly supported transport in the EU's fourth railway package. Mr President! The State finances the construction and maintenance of the rail network, which it owns, worth hundreds of millions of euros annually, for example, in 2018 about EUR 600 million. About EUR 50 million will be recovered as charges for the use of rail services. Rail transport is, in all cases, a highly publicly supported activity in which the state has a number of social interests, such as the development of public transport, the achievement of climate objectives, regional development and labour mobility. When planning a railway package, this must be borne in mind. In the next government term, rail transport development must be a central and shared objective. We also need a genuinely forward-looking policy and ambition for rail investment. Finland cannot afford to leave its tracks rusting. We need an hour of trains from Helsinki to Tampere as well as to Turku and the railway capacity that will enable this to be achieved. For example, the development of the main northern railway line, Finland, would bring significant economic benefits from the point of view of employment, livelihoods and our climate objectives. The renovation of our main route for passenger and freight transport must be speeded up. The package must be included in the planned 12-year national transport system plan, and the matter must be included in the next government agenda. The necessary funding for planning must be secured as soon as possible, preferably during this Government term. I hope that the renovation of the main track will receive strong support across party boundaries from this Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u35	Mr President! As you follow the debate in Finland on the development of rail transport, the question arises as to whether there are 50 million of us and not 5 million people. We are talking about very expensive railway investments. For example, there seems to be a Pisara track involved in these hour railway projects. It was on the news last night. Realism would be needed for this. This idea of opening up rail transport to competition also represents a similar error of scale. Of course, in the densely populated areas of Central Europe, competitive rail transport has produced and produced good results, but we have low population and passenger numbers. For me, this is not an ideological question, but a question of common sense. It is inconceivable that the distribution of this small rail passenger transport to several companies in some way would improve the situation. Competition does not necessarily need to be carried out on the tracks. Even now, more efficient bus transport has brought competition to the railways and the performance and profitability of rail transport have clearly improved, and competition has worked well. In other words, competition, which is to be welcomed in itself, can also be achieved in such a way that other modes of transport compete with rail transport. Quite frankly, I do not think that this idea makes sense. Well, if there is to be competition on the tracks, why should there not be competition on the subway? When it's got tracks and it's got a monopoly. The European Union does not require this solution. This idea that decisions taken within the European Union should be taken in Finland as such is typical of Finnish masculinity. The decisions of the European Union must always be applied at national level. Minister Berner is a very stubborn and determined minister — for which he can be acknowledged — but the results are bad. The taxi reform, which was driven quite badly through Parliament, has been a mistake. The problems of Kela rides are not directly related to it, but they are related. Then the minister has confused the car dealership with his car tax speech and e-bikes with his e-bikes. All in all, I think it would be appropriate for Parliament to consider whether Minister Berner would enjoy the confidence of Parliament. After all, there has been support here for the intermediate question, which seeks to make Mr Soini responsible for what he has said. If, at some point in the opposition, there is the idea that Minister Berner's confidence in this house will be weighed, then I am prepared to support this mistrust. I have, of course, followed his work from the sidelines, from the European Parliament, but all in all, it has created the impression that as a Member of Parliament I do not feel that I have confidence in his work. Perhaps at some point the opposition is expressing such mistrust.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u36	Mr President! As I mentioned, for example, the state railways were in pretty bad oxygen at the beginning of this parliamentary term. It had priced itself out of the market. Now it has been made to work under the influence of Minister Berner and prices have fallen, trains are full. Similarly, Finnair has improved its running all the time, from a loss-making company to a well-functioning one. And so is Finavia, in perfect condition. Digitalization is also progressing, digitalisation and transport services are moving in a completely new way, and there is no trade mixed in Finland. But, of course, some reforms in their implementation should always be made, in the event of mistakes being made. President! One very important question about this whole is that we need to find a new attitude in the Ministry of Finance if we are to take transport projects forward in Finland. New instruments are needed. There is also a need for budgetary funding for these. Otherwise, these things won't get anywhere. Otherwise, we will be talking here to empty rooms, unless the Ministry of Finance moves on this matter in Finland in the near future. Really, I think the Turku hour train project is very important. It comes to Helsinki and goes all the way to St. Petersburg. It's a European connection. Its design is already well under way. It is part of this working area of Southern Finland for one hour. By this I mean Turku-Salo-Helsinki, Helsinki-Hämeenlinna-Tampere, Tampere-Loimaa-Turku. These two tracks could at least pilot regional traffic. In the past, there has been very efficient rail bus traffic. It would also need, for example, regional support for commuting, which is very important at the outset. It must, of course, be weighed as to whether it is possible to provide support, but I think that it could be very sensible if it were to provide an economic basis for this pilot and for this activity to be opened up. In other words, this legislation, which we are now discussing, is an enabling legislation. We decide what we do in Finland, but I think that is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u37	Mr President! When I began as Chairman of VR’s Board of Directors in 2015, a price reduction and price change were introduced. So this was a comment to Mr Ala-Nissila on his praise for Berner's work. It would be interesting to hear on what basis this was Berner's action, because at least the board of directors never heard that Berner had anything to do with it, so that the price reduction and the price reform, as I understand it, were VR's own action. I was surprised that the centre now announced that it was thanks to their own minister. That is not true. The starting point for tendering has already been rather strange, because if you look at Finnish rail transport, that is to say, passenger transport, for Mr Väyrynen's information that freight transport has been open in the past, yes, [BigGirl call] This has, for some reason, been a matter of principle in the city centre, where Minister Berner has been pursuing an extraordinary model, and that is the problem that has arisen, because public finances should not take responsibility for the equipment of private companies at national level, but instead invest in their own equipment. And that company's own investment does not take place in this fleet model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u38	Madam President! This government proposal, which is now under discussion, is an overall reform of railway legislation, and this implements the decisions of the EU's fourth railway package. This also aims to reduce the administrative burden on private track managers in particular, without compromising rail safety, and rail safety is an extremely important issue. That is why it is good that next year's draft budget will also have more money available for road safety, specifically for the elimination of level crossings. Rail legislation is very much within the competence of the EU, so the national margin is rather limited, and this government proposal has now taken this into account. There has been a great deal of talk in this debate about this open market access to domestic passenger transport and the development of permit conditions. As far as this is concerned, the discussions have, of course, given rise to a major role for this vehicle company and the fact that in the future all railway undertakings involved in the tendering process would have equal access to equipment for the provision of the traffic subject to the tendering procedure. However, in my opinion, the fleet company will best ensure equal access for all future potential railway undertakings to equipment for the purpose of transport. It must be taken into account that Finland and other EU countries have a different track gauge, and it is expensive if new wagons are built there. It is very difficult to obtain wagons suitable for the Finnish network from other EU countries, and therefore, in my opinion, the vehicle company is the only alternative in Finland. And yes, there will also be revenue for the wagon company as soon as new potential operators rent equipment there. In my opinion, it is very important that the rail network should be developed throughout Finland. The eastern track is also very important. The fact is, what Mr Ala-Nissila has pointed out is that through normal budget funding it will be very difficult, almost impossible, to mobilise all major rail or road projects in the coming years, all those who would be needed. Therefore, new financing models must be developed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u39	Madam President! The reform of the Railway Act is one of the sensible and good reforms that have finally moved forward during this reign – of course, it is right to disagree with this too. With the reform, Finns will receive an ever better service in rail transport and more companies will have the opportunity to act on the tracks on an equal footing, providing passenger transport. The view is that competition increases traffic on the tracks and lowers ticket prices for customers. This was also the case with the liberalisation of bus and coach transport, which was actually intimidated by the same parties that this would not happen. It must also be said that the opposition party would also think it appropriate for the Greens to see an increase in the share of environmentally friendly rail transport in passenger transport as foreseen by the reform. After all, the government proposal before us is quite technical but contributes to the conditions for fair competition on the rail tracks and specifically to ensure that all rail operators have common rules of play. This government has acted wisely in the sense that no additional national rule or obligations have been created on the basis of EU legislative requirements. As Minister Berner pointed out, there is a long transition period, which also covers the powers of the next government, and there have indeed been no further obstacles of this kind. Blues believe that the dismantling of the rail monopoly is in the interests of a Finnish train passenger. In particular, the fact that in the future, as has been said here, regions can influence the rail transport supply in their own region is for the benefit of Finns living outside the capital region. We want to reform humanely and safely. That is why we have made sure that the liberalisation of competition takes place in a controlled and transitional way. As Chairman of VR’s Board of Directors, I am at least pleased that the liberalisation of competition for VR and its employees is being very much taken into account. My view is strongly that VR's management and employees are satisfied with this solution. This has been stressed by the blues. The competition will be opened in such a way that it does not jeopardise VR’s traffic secrets or undermine VR’s competitiveness. We'll continue to have a strong VR. Another question I would like to make a few comments on, Mr President, has now been the subject of public news on the use of Russian freight wagons in domestic traffic in Finland. Currently, the use of Russian equipment on the Finnish network is only permitted for connecting traffic between Finland and the Russian Federation. I am pleased that, contrary to what I had at some point in my life, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has also stated to the media that such a proposal would change the situation and allow Russian freight wagons to enter our internal traffic, which is not coming from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. This is very good news, which VR’s Board of Directors has already anticipated to comment on, which is that we considered that there is a lot of justification for not having this exemption in this respect. There are many aspects here, Mr President, including safety aspects. In addition to the fact that these wagons used in Russia are much cheaper than in Finland — which, of course, the forest industry has shown its interest — their safety standards do not meet the EU standards which, of course, are used in Finland, and they consume more track than Finnish wagons. It is likely that more money should be spent on rail maintenance. But I am really pleased that the Ministry of Transport and Communications has finally rejected this idea. I understand that the forestry industry has wanted the possibility of using Russian timber wagons not only for direct transport but also for intra-country transport, precisely because they are cheaper, as I mentioned. Yes, VR has the full opportunity and willingness to produce more wagons in Finland and for the use of Finnish VR and thus also support the Finnish forest industry and the good thing in itself, i.e. the increased transportation of wood and thus the increased need for these wagons. But there was a strong fear, especially for the employee side at the board meeting, that if such a proposal had actually been taken forward and even political will had been for internal freight transport to become these Russian wagons, it would in practice have meant the end of Finnish freight wagon production in some time. In other words, the fear was fully justified, and that is why the Governing Board felt that a strong position should be taken on this issue, and this has now been discussed in public. We have understood from our discussions on the Management Board that there is no political will to open this issue, but that these wagons will continue to be used in connection with the transport of goods between Finland and the Russian Federation, but not within Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u40	Madam President! Just as Mrs Elo said in her own excellent speech, we need to deal with this carriage in such a way that only Finnish wagons are used in Finland. I understand that in the transport of goods between Finland and Russia, for example, timber comes from Russia in a Russian wagon and is unloaded somewhere in the factory and then the wagons go back to Russia. A perfectly normal activity based on long-term contracts. But it is worth paying attention to the fact that Finland has its own Transtech Otamäki company, owned by foreigners, but also owned by Finns, which produces excellent wagon equipment for sale around the world, to Europe and also to Finland. VR has used those wagons a lot and hopefully will continue to do so. So we also have a huge amount of expertise on that side, and now we could hope for it, and I very much hope that the Committee on Transport and Tourism will also discuss, in the context of this legislative process, that more resources will be put into the development of the network in the future, so that new funding will be sought, just as in the case of the repair of the big trunks and carrier roads of the road infrastructure or the construction of new ones, so that these existing lines and roads will then be freed from this other wealth. Otherwise, we are in a situation where, when the rail network collapses and the road network collapses, we are constantly losing the benefit of the potential increase in traffic for society. Especially when the climate warms up and the winters are no longer long, and in the same winter there may be ten pieces of rain and ten huge frosts, which will put the trunk of the road and the railway line really to the test, so we will have to do more repairs than in previous years. This should also be taken into account in the Committee on Transport and Tourism when this law is being dealt with, and when the next government writes on its programme, the future text would be that, once this government has spent nearly one billion on closing its management debt, it would continue and even improve over the next four years, because if we want the national economy of this country to stand up, that means that the transport networks must be in order. Finally, Mr President, when electrifying lines in this country, it would also be worth looking at the fact that if all these sections of the larger transport line were electrified, then whether it is an environmental act or not. It is also important to note that while some trains are still being drawn on diesel locomotives and a lot of trains in Finland, there is no environmental pollution at all. Then let's start using bio-based diesel in them. That's all that's gonna happen. We have good diesel locomotive equipment and, if not very good, we will also develop it. That's another skill we have. These locomotives have been made in this country before.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u41	Mr President! All in all, of course, the development of rail links is important because people have good mobility opportunities, but also from the point of view of housing policy in the whole country, for example, from the point of view of employment, from the point of view of all this, it is very important that rail transport plays a role, as are, of course, these environmental issues. President! I would like to return to this debate on rail, rail and rail networks in that I thought it was important that Minister Berner, in his reply to my question, added an additional budget estimate and whether the planning money could be adjusted to the amending budget stage at this stage, said that the Minister would like to see possible improvements, the solutions that had been proposed, being able to be made in terms of funding. In my opinion, it was an important line of action which, in a way, now reflects the particularly healthy towards that government. When you enter an amending budget debate and draw up the following, it would be important that this line, as the Minister has just pointed out, should be included in this amending budget. And, as has been said, in order for this planning to get started properly, it would already require, in next year's budget, these more significant planning funds — yes, we are talking about more than EUR 1 million, perhaps even twenty — and, of course, a long-term plan for this overall. The Tampere-Helsinki section of this main track has been very busy, and that is why it needs a third track for less than an hour. I was looking at those key figures, the busiest rail link between 4.5 million and 6.6 million passengers per year, which means that it is a huge amount of money and serves the lives of many Finnish people at some point in their lives. That is why, President, the important observation about the direction of the European Union, which is, in a way, the main route to Finland, should be clearly recorded on the TEN-T core corridor status. This would also be important because it would also be possible to obtain funding for this if this happened. This is what I wanted to bring up. This is an important project and I very much welcomed the answer to this supplementary budget question, which I assume is that the government will now be considering that this planning will be planned from next year to this autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u42	Madam President! I have to say that there are different edges in this debate, but everyone wants to drive a fast train — it is all right, but I would like to have a discussion about more than just building new tracks next to the other track. We should be able to see in a comprehensive way how we make geographical use of both East and West traffic. I will now take the Pori-Haapamäki track as a hundred people, for example, with an investment of about 300 million. At the same time, in Tampere, for example, it would determine the costs of the transfer of the entire railway yard in the station area, amounting to EUR 900 million. It could even eliminate the construction of the Seinäjoki—Vasa twin rail when we could get freight transport off the main rail. We need to open up our own views by considering new opportunities, making economic calculations as to how best we can make use of the fact that our industry has the opportunity to transport goods from where they are made to ports, where they are taken out — how they are done more rationally. It is not only sensible for us to have freight traffic on the same track as passenger traffic. It will be easy to conclude that we will only get there within an hour in such a way that we can build another track when we can think of ways to get that freight traffic off the other rail, so that this will serve passenger transport either from Turku to Helsinki or from the north, when the EU is positive and the state has taken a positive turn to drive the TEN-T network, which goes further than just to Tampere, even further in a vertical direction. You have to dare to open up good ideas and not just fool yourself with your own, the easiest solution in the area: to build one more track on this expedition. And for Congressman Hoskonen, a good opening. I am in favour of it because in this country we have LNG expertise for motor manufacturers, top in Vaasa. We could try, for example, in this particular East-West traffic, to produce a network that would not be electrified, but would be the transport of LNG locomotives. The emissions would be reduced. But, Mr Elo, it must be said from low-emission passenger transport that I have been somewhat dismayed at the fact that, at the moment, the taxation of diesel locomotives is cheaper than driving an electric locomotive. It is somehow so incompatible with Finnish transport policy
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u44	Mr President! I personally believe that it is essential that the main rail links between these major big cities be put in order. At the moment they are in such an insolent condition that travelling time is currently about two hours, for example, for the Tampere-Helsinki rail connection, which was still running a few years ago in an hour and a half. This is a disgrace. Yes, we need to get these major main routes in order, and this main track, Helsinki-Tampere-North, as well as the However, these are large-scale investments, there is no way out of it, and today, in this Chamber, these various innovative financing solutions have emerged, which can then be used to finance these large investments. However, I would like to be so patient with these innovative financing solutions that, of course, we must look at the funding possibilities for each project, but in such a way as to make them as economically advantageous as possible. So we do not make decisions that in the short term look less expensive — perhaps we politicians may be tempted to take them — but which in the long term will cost many times as much as they would have been publicly funded. Now I am calling for patience, of course ambition, visionaryness — that is what is needed. These backbone networks must be put in place, but we must also do so in a sensible way in terms of funding, so that taxpayers do not have to pay too much for these large investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u45	Madam President! I'll be brief. I would like to raise two points once again. First of all, I would like to express my concern about the development of this rail transport, which is essentially focused on taking account of the needs of the metropolitan area. With reference to these previous speeches, I certainly do not wish to deny the importance of these needs, but at the same time I would also like to point out that this main network must be comprehensive at national level, particularly in view of its overall needs. Representatives of the Central Finland Parliament have prepared a joint statement on the allocation of EUR 1 million in planning money. We propose that it should also, in the long term, include the planning of a double track between Tampere and Jyväskylä. Here reference has been made to this issue in previous speeches, when we have discussed precisely the need to ensure accessibility for these key urban areas as well. Our comments on this will also be forwarded to the Government. Of course, we have also considered these general principles of rail transport development which have been raised. Secondly, I would like to express my concern about the proposed competition for passenger transport. Although the proposal is based on the implementation of EU legislation and its directives and mainly includes technical amendments, this is not just a question of this. At national level, we must ensure that the number of passenger services designated as unprofitable connections, their user price and quality must not, at least, be undermined. This is also important for the economy, employment and security of passenger transport in the rest of the country. I also strongly believe that there is no justification or need for this rash haste. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u46	Mr President! Today's debate on the development of rail transport is an extremely important issue and it is good to continue it in the future. This government proposal would implement the European Union's fourth railway package as a whole nationally and would be implemented through the adoption of a new rail transport law which will replace the existing Railway Act and the Urban Rail Transport Act. However, it must now be remembered that this latter law has been dealt with during this parliamentary term and has only been in force for two and a half years, so it seems that even the government itself does not consider its own earlier proposals to be up-to-date. I believe that this shows something about the long-term nature of the actions of the Sipilä Government in general. The existing Railway Law has been amended four times, and each of the amending laws adopted has been linked to the implementation of European Union law, and this is an example of how the European Union is gradually introducing new legislation to the Member States on matters that could be subject to national decision-making powers. Mr President! Legislation in the rail sector has been gradually developed in the European Union and the number of different requirements has increased. For example, the Council Directive on the development of the railways required separation between the operation of rail transport and the management of the network. At present, legislation in the rail sector is based mainly on Union legislation in Finland and other EU Member States. Mr President! Member States currently have very few purely national legislations. The Finnish Railway Act is mainly a law implementing Union law, as is recognised in this Government proposal. The implementation of the national interest in the proposal is not taken into account. Parliament must therefore ensure that our national interests are realised in the adoption of this law. Mr President! I agree with the views expressed in this plenary session that, as Mrs Myllykoski said earlier, special and swift attention must be paid to the condition and capacity of the main railway line in the future, without, of course, forgetting the smooth flow of cross-border traffic in the country. In particular, a dense and fast train connection between Helsinki and Tampere would significantly promote the connections of the rest of Western Finland to the capital region, including Vaasa, Seinäjoki and Jyväskylä to Helsinki. I call on the Minister to speed up and bring forward the improvement of the capacity of the main track — something that has already been raised here in previous speeches. It would serve the needs of the whole country’s movement and business, thus improving Finland’s employment and serving the national interest of the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u47	Mr President! Unfortunately, Congressman Elo left the Chamber. I would have liked to ask him a question — maybe he hears somewhere and sometimes answers. He said that VR and staff organisations were satisfied with this proposal. I have only been following things through the public, but I understand that from the outset VR's management was opposed to this arrangement, especially the splitting up of VR. Human resources organisations were also in favour of this. But when the European Union pleaded hard for this government to drive, it has been satisfied and then, in some way, it is considered to be tolerable for this plan which is now on the table. On the basis of this, I have doubts as to whether that report by Mrs Elo was correct. I assume that VR would prefer this not to be done, and I doubt staff organisations would be sorry if this chopping was abandoned. As far as these railway projects are concerned, I do not think that we should at all co-operate with each other now to improve traffic between Tampere and Helsinki, improve traffic on the main railway line and this Turku hour train connection. Turku has a good rail connection, a beach track that serves the transport needs of people living along it. This hour's railway construction, the construction of a new railway, is incredibly expensive, and yesterday, Deputy Mayor Sinnemäki made a statement on television that this construction would require the construction of the Pisara track, which is a very expensive investment. There should now be realism in these investment plans, and there is no money outside the budget that could be used just like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u48	Madam President! I have listened to these speeches and stayed to think about these railway projects on the basis of such an eastern Finn employee and a vibrant city where industry makes rise and railway connections are needed. First of all, these hourly rail connections here in southern Finland — Mrs Väyrynen raised quite well here — are expensive railway projects, and then we must remember that the money is out of Finland, their track repairs and the needs that business needs there. I myself think that we need the kind of rail connections that we need to start acquiring, with which we can get to the ports of export well, and we need to think about what is a direct link to them also in the east-west direction. We have good ports in the West, where you can go very cheaply and where you can take goods through the tracks. At the moment, they are mainly carried by lorries, and it then appears that our climate emissions will not achieve the objectives of transport, because diesel fuel is still the fuel for transport and it will remain there. Then I thought about these VR projects, and very good freight wagons are made in Pieksämäki. However, through these competitive tenderings there is a risk that this construction of freight wagons will be excluded from us in this area, and I do not think that it is in line with the idea that at least the Central Party has at some point been cultivated, that we should have jobs in the regions and that the state must steer the jobs so that we can keep the whole of Finland occupied. This is a response to the fact that the services that should work and the transport that should work are not well prepared regionally at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u49	Madam President! Just like the representative. Semi said, so the government here has the responsibility to ensure that the whole of Finland is operated fairly. Whether it takes an hour or 15 minutes to get to a city is certainly not the cause of the world. It also has to take into account the entire transport system of the state, and it is an explicit task of the state and parliament to place the stakes, the state's money, where the best of them is achieved, while the rail connections here in southern Finland, even now from Tampere to Helsinki, are reasonably good, as well as from Turku here. For example, I think it is extremely important to get that eastern track in order to get what is required of the core line. When these Finnish borders changed back then in the 40's, Eastern Finland has suffered all the time from the loss of natural connections to that direction towards Vyborg. We have been suffering from it ever since that transport system did not play perfectly well. But it is up to us to put it in order, and we must put enough money in order to get the fast east track done, as well as on Route Six. Then on this traffic, what Mrs Semi said and Mrs Myllykoski has said many times in her speech: we also have track know-how on the construction side of the wagon. Indeed, the Transtech factories, or Skoda may now own them, and then this Pieksämäki depot, where freight wagons are made, all of these are the skills that Finland needs to retain, of course. Then this issue of the diesel/electric train: I sometimes find the taste of a little hypocrisy in always appealing to that electric locomotive. It is an extremely important and good, environmentally friendly way of pulling trains forward, but it must also be remembered that some of the electricity is made with coal, so I do not know if it is now such an environmentally friendly act of making electricity with coal and then using it as a power source in electric locomotives. But, as I said, we still have diesel locomotives. LNG technology is very much used in ships, and turning diesel into LNG, natural gas or natural gas, if it is biogas, is a very simple thing to do. After all, even cars are turned into gas-powered cars, and it can be done by an engineer without any special knowledge. I believe that the conversion of a diesel locomotive to a gas-fuelled engine will also be reasonably successful. However, when you need weight on top that that train really runs, I don't see any technical problem there. In this regard, it would also be worth thinking a little about the overall economy when the locomotives are being reformed. I understand that the entire railway network in Finland cannot be electrified at all, but the network that diesel locomotives or gas locomotives need is to be used with the opportunities we have at the time, with the technology we have, and this gas system, which has good experience on ships, must also be introduced on railway tracks. I don't think that's a bad solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u50	Madam President! Yes, I must say that it was a pleasure to listen to the previous speech by Mrs Hoskonen. That is exactly how we must be able to calculate what is economically viable. However, this LNG is the solution for the diesel engine that we are able to reduce transport emissions also in the rail sector, because we still have diesel locomotives. When these calculations are made on which project is profitable, let us take the example of the Lahti shortcut, for example, we should remember how much passenger traffic it has caused between Lahti and Helsinki and how much it has brought to the urban areas along the track because of its infrastructure. That is why I believe that regional project funds will make it possible to finance railway projects. I consider it entirely possible for the Pori-Haapamäki railway project — I will now use it as an example when it is the easiest for me to do so — to allow municipalities and businesses to become starters of the project and to finance it when we have an element in which we can, in a way, pay back to business by reducing, for example, 15 years, 20 years of rail charges. In other words, there is an instrument that we can use to attract companies to participate in the investment that is in it along the track. Just as much as the municipalities can see that they should go with them. If freight traffic is involved, it will also enable passenger transport, allowing local authorities along the track to see the rise in land prices, to concentrate on the area where there is good mobility. In other words, we have plenty of opportunities to promote the well-being and functioning of society as a whole through rail transport. And although we have always been of the opinion from here on the left that competition for passenger transport is a highly objectionable matter, I must say in person that I would like to say that Pori—Ulvila—Nackila—Hurjavalta—Kokemäki, where the stations are in the middle of village centres, could be, for example, a regional company, a regional transport company or an individual operator who could much better make it possible to pendelise the region in a productive way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u51	Madam President! This rail transport law and the EU's fourth railway package, which we are discussing here, have opened up a good debate on these projects on a wider scale. In my opinion, it is good in itself that we will no longer have a single monopoly, but will also allow other players to get on the track. It does not necessarily only bring the new players, but it is only the possibility that they will be given a boost that will significantly increase our common VR, which is currently the operator. There have already been good examples of this in my own region, for example, where more train shifts have already taken place, VR has actually started to invest and also marketed these train shifts, which it has not done before. But I'll be right back. It is great that we are thinking about fast connections and thinking about better opportunities, that the industry is also able to speed up rail transport, but, admittedly, that there will be a lot more investment in those regions that are already doing really well, that they will be doing much better. We are talking about an hour's connection to Turku or very fast connections between Tampere and Helsinki — certainly very good projects, but I would like to point out quite rightly that, as far as rail transport is concerned, these business opportunities should not be more guaranteed elsewhere in Finland. I would particularly like to highlight those transversal connections, as Mrs Mylly-koski has done here in her speeches. A few years ago, the Central Nordic Green Corridor project, a joint Nordic project involving EU money, examined these important transversal connections, what is there. One part of it was the port of Kaskisten and the railway of Suupohja and the Haapamäki railway, which are very important players in cross-border traffic. And now that these investments have been made, among other things, by VR with regard to train services on the Haapamäki track and the users have been given more opportunities to brush up and, for example, to travel to Ähtär animal park by train, for example, these have been used and the number of visitors this summer has risen by more than 60%, which is an extremely good thing. But that will continue to require investments, and the fact that new players are allowed on the tracks means that, for example, the provinces or municipalities, and private money involved, would be able to set up a company that could, for example, serve commuting better and then do that feed traffic on the main track. But in any case, it's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u52	Madam President! This speech by Mr Savola in this regard was also an attempt on my part to take the floor. First of all, I would like to say that in this kind of blind market opening and the salvation it brings with it I am unable to join. The cases of Ireland and Great Britain alone are examples of what opening up competition in rail transport can bring at its worst. On the other hand, from the debate that it makes no sense to completely close these possibilities of opening up competition, I would say that it makes no sense simply to take a negative view of this issue. As I pointed out in my previous speech, I think it is important for us in the Committee on Transport and Communications to look closely at, among other things, whether this right to search for railway capacity could be extended from operators to other operators who would have such desires for public service provision or for commercial reasons to acquire railway capacity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u53	Madam President! It is true that when one player has been on the track and there has been no competition, it has not been necessary to invest so much in all parts of Finland either. We've only focused on a few main routes. I know that since 94 years of parliamentary elections, every delegation of some kind of hair hat has jumped here in the ministries to tell us about the importance of, for example, the transversal track, and to ask for money to do that now, both at VR and at the Ministry of Transport. And then one parliamentary term has always been pushed forward, and we have been in a similar situation again, so there is a desire for a more permanent change. The mere fact that new players have started to be identified – there is also a chance for a pilot to start up where new players would be on the track – has improved VR itself. It has increased train shifts, increased marketing and improved it. As far as I am concerned, the fact that competition is coming is a good thing. There are good examples of this in Sweden, a neighbour of the West, where there are many players in rural areas and trains travel far more frequently than they do in our countries. I would like to see us in a situation where we do not need to go every year or parliamentary term, but rather to find more permanent solutions. One option could be for example a regional railway company that could serve commuting, commuting on trains that people can also use to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u54	Madam President! Indeed, 90% of the tracks are monorailed in Finland. That need for transversal tracks is indisputable. I myself am currently a member of the Berner Mobility Network Group, where we are specifically planning long-term investments and wondering how funding can be better obtained. VR’s ability to operate has been influenced, among other things, by the government’s actions when it comes to purchasing or other things, and it is known that VR is better able to organise traffic in those unprofitable areas as well when it is supported by the government. It was seen as an increase in train services as soon as the government handed over to VR, correcting its previous surgeries. I personally do not believe that there will be a great deal of competition for unprofitable tracks. It is usually the case that private operators operate where there is also a chance of profits. As a result, VR has been able to make it possible for those densely operated areas and their track profits to compensate for costs, so that traffic is also available in areas where traffic is scarce and is not profitable. That is why I do not support the fact that the monorail, sparsely operated areas are completely subject to competition.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u55	Mr President! It is interesting to note that this project is now being justified by the local needs of the provinces, since, of course, this whole project is coming from European Union legislation which seeks to open up competition for rail transport between the largest cities. It does not make sense to me that, under the conditions of Finland, where even the largest cities are relatively small, it would make sense to cut it down to several companies. It is already possible to operate locally in the current system. The Helsinki Region has HSL, which operates rail transport. VR handles most of Finland. Of course, there are other areas where such regional and local arrangements can be developed within the framework of existing legislation. In my opinion, this project is simply not well thought out, and I hope that the committee will examine this matter carefully. European Union legislation does not require us to do this opening up of competition in a way that seems to be the aim. The present system can also very well be developed. As far as the development of Finnish rail transport is concerned, it has a lot of needs. We have a huge number of bad roads. We are talking about billions of projects to promote transport in the largest cities, and in this respect it is very difficult to understand what, for example, the Turku shortcut would bring. A reduction in travel time of 15 minutes may be possible, and the shoreline would be marginally used, and people living along it would lose their services. This does not mean that Lohja and Salo will stop, but that it will be from Turku to Helsinki and from Helsinki to Turku directly without stopping.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u56	Madam President! It is quite such an everyday realistic statement that when the state’s ownership is transferred to a private person, then we are no longer the overseeers of its ownership. Today we are facing the unfortunate end of one chain and one play, when the former state-owned company Kemira, which was the producer of pigments in Pori, is currently in a situation after a few acquisitions where the owner of Venator announced that ‘our lock factory’. These too should always have the courage to look at the extent to which we are taking the capital we own, and especially in terms of infrastructure, I would like to see a very great deal of consideration given to what we are committing ourselves to, whether it is the particular tenacity of EU legislation or this government to privatise everyone. In particular, we have gone to the transport sector, I might say, with a great deal of will, as I said in my first speech. The speed has been heady, and the seat belt may not always have been in the position it should have been. All in all, Mrs Väyrynen pointed out that it is already possible for us to do so, but of course we have been here as a brake on the liberalisation of competition in passenger transport. But I would see that the fact that we are thinking of competitive passenger transport on the main track would be quite a strange sight. Would three or four trains go in a row, i.e. the one that offers more cheaply, then the customers choose? They won't fit in our domestic yards, there won't fit any more equipment than there is at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u57	Madam President! I thought about this, that VR is our own state company, that is, we own this whole care and think about how to develop it. Of course, the development of operations must be the main issue. But when I read these results from last year, VR Group’s operating profit was EUR 35.6 million, and it pays a little to the state, and then the government buys these less productive lines and such tracks and assigns it to traffic. It seems kind of crazy that this kind of state company is moving money back and forth, so that the host can then order that where you drive and how you drive. Yes, we should outline in full how these our rail projects are developed and taken forward, so that it serves our society, our society's competitiveness and this kind of activity, and not that now we are starting these own companies to split up and distribute to the market, out of our own control.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u58	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u59	Madam President! I am not fully prepared to present this bill. Earlier I understood that the Minister would have done so, and since there is no committee chairman here to do so, I will go directly to comment on this proposal. This government proposal on the reform of the agency, too, mainly concerns the technical supplement to the spring presentation on which we had our own debates and in committee we started working there before the summer break. In this proposal, therefore, virtually all references to regional reform have been deleted. In this respect, the situation is difficult, because it is a fact that many more work is now being done in view of the postponement of the regional reform. The situation is challenging in that all parts of the Ministry of Transport sector are now in the air, as it were. There is uncertainty as to whether this will work and how much will have to be corrected in the future as a result of this so-called reduced version. This reform of the agency is a mixed proposal with regard to the responsibilities of the various actors involved. The agencies negotiate with the provinces and cities and monitor each other, and then the Ministry supervises them. The problem is that this proposal has not even been subject to a clear impact assessment of the effects of the reform. For the original government proposal, the Central Chamber of Commerce and the EK included this in the annexes to the opinion. Here are some of the challenges I have raised, which we in the Committee on Transport and Communications are going to have to clean up very carefully. I understand the need for legislation to introduce reforms that improve the current situation and do not create a confused situation for the various actors involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u60	Mr President! There are indeed transport proposals on the table, and I can see that there is also some sort of bogeyman painting going around when there are legal proposals that can be made here. Yesterday, we were at a maritime professionals' conference on intelligent transport and digitalisation. That's where the very positive feedback came from. It is not really by chance that last November the Ministry of Transport and Communications also received the award of the International Intelligent Transport Network for its merit in promoting a progressive transport policy and legislation. Now, in this parliamentary term, we are really at the heart of the reform of the agencies under the Ministry of Transport and Communications. This is more of a technical issue. We have carried out a traffic arch project, a law on traffic control companies and so on. In my opinion, this has really made it possible for Finnish business activities and Finnish transport to develop and move forward. The only thing is that we really need money for this and new financial instruments, and that is what we should all work for now, up to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u62	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u63	Madam President! Now, on behalf of the Finns Party, I would like to express a few views on this great government line in order to make it more difficult for Finns to engage in weapons. The problems relate not only to the draft law before us, but also to the general policy of the government. I know that this is not directly related to the most problematic issue, the Arms Directive, but I would still like to shed light on the approach of the Finns in relation to the pursuit of arms. Mr President! The Finns have seen a number of shortcomings in the reform plans of the Government's Firearms Act, which we have called for to be amended. First of all, firearms legally held are not, in the opinion of the Finns Party, a threat to public order and security. True Finns do not support any legal changes that complicate the lives of sports shooters, reservists, gun collectors, hunters and weapons businessmen. This direct discipline of gun enthusiasts by the government has become very critical feedback from gun enthusiasts. The Finns generally want to emphasise that terrorism is not combated by weakening the status of legal weapons owners. Future reforms planned by the government will target the owners of legal weapons, not the real causes of terrorism and crime. With regard to the later arms directive, I would like to say that the Finns of Peru consider it important that, in the future, the amendment of the arms law to the EU directive should be interpreted on the basis of the least harmful principle. We will not accept any national reinforcements that do not follow directly from the EU directive. Nor will the Finns of Peru accept government plans, for example, to apply the new regulations retrospectively to weapons permits issued after 12 July 2017. They should only apply to authorisations granted after the entry into force of new laws. It also appears that the combination of a self-loading rifle with more than 10 rounds of ammunition under the EU directive is moving from the category of so-called licensed weapons to the so-called prohibited weapons. In practice, this means banning larger boxes. However, the Directive allows the granting of permits for such combinations, inter alia, on the grounds of sporting shooting and in individual cases for reasons of national defence. In addition, the Finns of Peru consider government plans to transfer so-called prohibited combinations of weapons and boxes to the category of so-called particularly dangerous firearms unnecessary. This is not required by the Directive, and there is no justification for comparing the clip with, for example, cannons, mortars and serial firearms. With its reforms, the government now intends to increase bureaucracy and costs, among other things, by granting permits for so-called particularly dangerous firearms to the Police Government rather than the Police Department. Mr President! There are many major problems with the revision of the Arms Directive, and the Finns of Finland will then come to take a more specific position on the matter in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-12-ps-82.u64	Madam President! I fully agree with the previous speaker that legal weapons are not a problem and that banning them is not the solution to combat terrorist crimes. The crimes committed with terrorist intent have been committed by means of weapons acquired on the black market. They are made with weapons for which there is no control, weapons imported from beyond the Balkans, and so on, not by those legitimate and law-abiding enthusiasts, let alone by those of the reservists or hunters. Representative Immonen here demonises government policy quite a bit. There are no proposals at the moment and, in fact, everything that is going on with the Arms Directive is still in preparation. Of course, this autumn the performance is still coming from there. Those starting points for the Arms Directive were such that the EU Commission set out to design a total ban on long arms, self-loading single firearms, but our unity in Finland, which was across party boundaries, did lead to that directive becoming considerably better than it would have been without our unity. In fact, Finland and its experts were in the process of exporting the directive in such a way that it would be able to ensure the self-registration and armaments of the reservists in the future. Finnish national defence is based on general military duty, the defence of the whole of Finland and the extensive reserve, and the reservists must be able to practice their own shooting because shooting is the soldier's most important individual skill. I myself would now like to be patient with the fact that this export to national legislation is carried out properly and rightly and, of course, without any additional restrictions derogating from the directive. Yes, it must be a starting point, and I hope that together we can push this forward, just as at the time when this directive was started to be defended and amended. When Finland's needs were started to be defended in relation to the directive, it was done unanimously across party boundaries, and I hope that this line will also be able to continue. It is in everyone’s interest that the hobby continues to be able to continue and that the reservists are able to maintain their own shooting skills on their own.
