ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u1	The only item to be discussed is Day 2 issue, the Government communication to Parliament on the extension of the term of the State guarantee for the provision of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF). Following a presentation by Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, the debate will take place at a rapid pace, with group speeches of no more than 5 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be used in the order of group statements and shall also be for a maximum of 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, I can give you answers in the order in which I consider it. At the end of the examination of the communication, a vote of confidence shall be taken on the part of the Government or the Minister if a motion of censure has been submitted to the Government or the Minister during the debate. Parliament may decide to refer the matter to a committee which must submit a proposal for a Parliament decision. At this stage, a maximum of 2.5 hours will be reserved for discussion. The procedure agreed on in the case of scheduled cases will be followed, which means that we will then continue the debate this evening if we do not have everyone to attend in this 2.5 hour period.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I present the Government's communication to Parliament on the extension of the term of the State guarantee for the financing of the European Financial Stability Facility. The final mid-term review of the third adjustment programme for the Greek economy was completed in June. In this context, the Eurogroup agreed to extend the maturity of the loans received by Greece from EFSF by 10 years and to postpone the payment of interest and the start of the repayment of loans by 10 years. The Eurogroup also agreed that if the ceiling of the EFSF funding programme is likely to be exceeded, the changes to the EFSF loan terms agreed in June will be cancelled. These solutions were accepted by Finland with the normal agreement of the Parliament on EU matters. The Government's policy was approved by a large committee. In addition to the large committee, the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs also dealt with the policy. The extension of the loan periods will require an extension of the duration of the State guarantees granted to the EFSF. This will result in a legal obligation to submit a Government communication to Parliament, which is why we are here today. It is not a question of giving new support, but of implementing the decision already adopted with the help of Parliament. The extension of the loan periods concerns some EUR 96 billion of the Greek EFSF loans, totalling EUR 131 billion. Repayments of the remaining part will start in 2023 on the basis of the original schedule. The current State guarantee granted by Finland is valid until the end of 2070. The guarantees are subject to English law under the EFSF Framework Agreement. The EFSF's current fundraising programme, which is covered by the Finnish guarantee, does not exceed EUR 241 billion in capital. At the end of September 2018, around EUR 198 billion was available from the fundraising programme for the financing of the adjustment programmes in Greece, Portugal and Ireland. Finland's calculated guarantee share of the available amount was approximately EUR 6.9 billion according to the actual interest rate and the current excess guarantee share. The key issues for the development of the overall funding programme are the development of interest rates on the raising of funds and the start of repayments of EFSF loans in 2023. The current average borrowing rate for EFSF is around 1.4% and is projected to rise to 3.1% in 2030. The current level of interest rates is exceptionally low. Therefore, it is likely that interest rates will increase in the future, but current forecasts suggest that the ceiling for the raising of funds will not be exceeded. The sensitivity of the borrowing programme to the rise in interest rates has already been significantly reduced due to extended loan periods for bonds issued by EFSF. The inclusion of EFSF bonds in the European Central Bank’s public sector securities purchase programme has also kept the borrowing rates low and contributed to the reduction of the likelihood of the fundraising programme being exceeded. As I said earlier, if the maximum amount of funding is likely to be exceeded, the Greek loan relief agreed in June will be cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u5	Let me now turn to the group speeches. They will begin with a representative of the parliamentary group in the centre, Mr Ala-Nissila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u6	Mr President! The debt crisis in the euro area has shaken the euro and the Union as a whole for a decade. In 2009, it became clear that: For years Greece had distorted its economic statistics.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u17	Mr President! The Government communication on extending the duration of the guarantees under the European Financial Stability Facility is, above all, a technical change. The basis is the implementation of the Greek economic adjustment programme and the previously agreed guidelines. The extension of the guarantees will not increase Finland’s overall liabilities. On the contrary, Finland’s risks may be reduced if the easing of loan periods facilitates the recovery of the Greek economy. There's good news from Greece now. The economy is growing and Greece is returning to a normal loan market. The easing of the debt crisis that began in 2010 is important for Europe, Finland, the euro and, above all, for ordinary Greeks. The way the crisis is extinguished can always be debated afterwards, but it is more fruitful to discuss Europe's fire safety for today and tomorrow. Mr President! In Greece, when the hoses are rolling after the aftershave, the ingredients of the new large fire are squirming and sparkling in Italy. Italy is the third largest economy in the euro area, accounting for 15% of GDP in the euro area. Italy’s government debt amounts to almost a quarter of the total debt of all euro-area Member States. The interest expenses of the country’s debt mountain are higher than the total budget of the Finnish State. If there is a flare in Rome, the European fire-fighting equipment will be extremely tight with the mere limitation of the fire. Ordinary Italians would be the biggest victims of populism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u21	Madam President! 2010 was a turning point in the history of the euro area. The outbreak of the Greek debt crisis revealed the difference between the different Member States in terms of the rules adopted together. Greece’s debt was more than 130 % of GDP, and the Greek Conservative Government, at the last job, had still distorted the statistics so that the annual deficit was initially reported at just over 3 %, compared with 15 % in the end. I would remind you that today no one has been convicted of these counterfeits: no one who gives orders, no one who executes them. Greece's debt was also a textbook for us Finns. The rules are the same, but following them is another thing. It makes it cautious and makes it even more important for each Member State to bear its own responsibility for its economy. President! Three aid packages have now been put in place to save Greece. The first included bilateral loans from countries — one billion from Finland, unfortunately, without collateral. However, the then Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen described this lending as a good business. I do not think that this forecast is among the most successful statements of our prime ministers, because the profits have been lost but the risk has remained. The SDP voted against the aid solution because it did not involve any reform of the financial systems, it did not include a debt arrangement, it did not include any reduction in the debts of the financiers, nor any guarantee of repayment of the loans. In the context of the second package in Greece, it was finally decided to reorganise the debt. The impossible became possible. Investors' claims were cut by 100 billion. The biggest debt arrangement in economic history was created. Minister of Finance Urplainen persisted in fighting for Finland the guarantees that secured Finland's claims in the event of Greece's insolvency. The EUR 1 billion guarantees are still our protection today, even though the current Foreign Minister, in his opposition, tried to deny the existence of guarantees throughout the page with advertisements. The present Sipilä Government decided first of all to participate in the third Greek aid package,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u27	Madam President! Once again, we are talking about Greece. The previous, EU-faithy governments dropped money on the countries of crisis in order to save the euro, which was squabbled by its links. That is why we are now in this situation that Finland currently guarantees, among other things, Greece's loans for a total amount of nearly EUR 7 billion. However, we must now do what we can to ensure that the guarantees are not paid by Finland. During the last term of government, the Social Democrats argued that they negotiated good guarantees for the Greek guarantees in Finland. Later it became clear that this was a profit exchange agreement, which is quite different.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u32	Mr President! The Lipponen government made a serious mistake 20 years ago when it crushed Finland into European Economic and Monetary Union. The big mistake was to include Italy and Greece as well. At that time, Italy promised to reduce its debt level of 120 % to 60 % by 2009. Now that debt is 130%. [Base Finns Group : Ahhh! ] The Greek Socialist Government forged its statistics and entered the euro at the expense of others and of us. When the crime was discovered around 2005, the then Minister of Finance Eero Heinäluoma forgave it. After all, it was the brother party, the socialist Pasok. [of the Socialist Group : Oiji! ] In 2010, Greece became insolvent. The Vanhanen-Katainen government, along with the others, was making a billion-dollar loan to Greece quickly. Immediately, the EFSF was needed and, through it, huge subsidies were made available to Greece. From that time on, we remember the Minister's fantastic scream, "Hey, we're making money with this!"
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u37	Thank you. — Next, the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u38	Mr President! In many ways, Finland’s fate is linked to the future of Europe. The major challenges of our time from climate change onwards require international cooperation, and no one can solve these issues alone. In particular, the interests of small countries are European and rule-based cooperation. As an export country, the open economy is also a lifeline for us. Without European cooperation, we would not have much say if the large countries started to turn inward towards protectionism. It must therefore be said emphatically that the Community character of the European Union is in the interests of Finland. From this point of view, we must also look at what we are dealing with today. The extension of the State guarantees under the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) is mainly a technical matter which has been brought before Parliament because Parliament has previously imposed an obligation on the government to do so if the extension of the State guarantees is considered, but there is therefore a broad European interest behind this technical issue: getting Greece back on its feet in such a way that it can manage its debt burden and also start paying back debts in due course. This is the common interest of all Europeans. At the same time, it is about the citizens of the European Union and our common future. By taking care of hope and faith in the future for all EU citizens, we are laying the foundations for the success of the European economy as a whole and restoring people's confidence in democracy. Since the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance can support this proposal, I will focus more on the situation in the European Union, the economy and its future. Listening to colleagues here, I noticed that the vast majority focused on history. Mr President! It is important for the whole of European democracy and the open economy that young generations in particular have hope for the future. From this point of view, the management of the euro crisis has not been just a success story for the European Union. There was little preparation for the crisis and much too much attention was paid to the structure of the economy and the rescue of banks, but too often people were forgotten. In the large southern European Member States of Spain, Italy and Greece, young people paid a high price for the increased state economy. Even in Spain, youth unemployment rose by more than 50%, even higher in Greece, and many educated young people moved abroad. This is something to be remembered when we think about the future of Europe: how people, and especially young people, will be able to enjoy well-being and a future in their own country. This is what led to a high price for the recovery of the countries and, on the other hand, created a basis for the growth of extremism in these southern European countries, but also more generally in the Western countries. Economic discipline is not good for democracy, it is not good for people's well-being, and it is not good for the economy in the end either. This lesson should also be remembered. Lessons must therefore be drawn from the management of the crisis. It is not enough simply for the EU to build better mechanisms to protect euro area and wider EU stability through banking regulation, the European Stability Mechanism and the surveillance of public finances. This is also important in itself, and the Banking Union has made good progress, investor responsibility is part of the market economy, systemic risks have been reduced and the ECB's monetary policy has worked. But still, ladies and gentlemen, in this Parliament, we must remember that democracy ultimately relies on people's trust. It must also be based on the credibility of the European Union and its ability to function. This confidence has deteriorated more widely in the West, and that is something we need to correct. The best way to defend the market economy and transparency is for the Nordic welfare state, where citizens are equal, where young people are invested and educated and where the goal is to have access to meaningful work for all. In this respect, the Finnish Government has something to look at in the mirror, and these values must now be highlighted more and more in the cooperation of the European Union, so that we can emerge from the crisis together in recent years with strength. Improving employment and combating poverty and training for young people must become more important in the EU budget and in cooperation between countries. At the same time, we must defend Europe as a place for human rights and tackle the erosion of the rule of law in Hungary and Poland. The Finnish Government has unfortunately been silent about this too. Furthermore, combating climate change is inevitably a key element of the European Union's policy towards the future. These are all issues that Finland can address in the coming years when the EU budget and the multiannual financial framework for next year are being negotiated and the future Presidency of the European Union in the autumn of next year. We must be the country that defends the unity of Europe and develops EU cooperation. This was the Finnish line at the time when we joined the EU during Lipponen's government, but it seems that in recent years this line has been forgotten and Finland has fallen increasingly into a line of raisins from buns. As a small country, we must remember that the common success of the European Union is also a central part of Finland's success, and that is why Finland should be part of the solution, not part of the problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u39	Madam President! The proposal is the result of a previous modification of the terms of the loan between the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) and Greece. Then, like many experts and the International Monetary Fund, the Left Alliance felt that the terms of the loan should have been more relaxed in order to give Greece a realistic chance to get on its feet. Some of the debts should have been cancelled in full and the repayment rate tied to the resilience and development of the Greek economy. This is because Greece has to carry out an excessive policy of economic discipline for decades in order to counterbalance the timing of debt payments. The primary surplus of the national economy should be 3.5% of GDP until 22 and then more than 2% for the next 40 years. When the payment rebates expire in 15 years' time, the repayment of the loan would be more than half of the government's tax revenues. Do you think Finland could survive such a course? It may be premature to celebrate the end of the crisis packages, as: Greece has been tied up for decades with debt imprisonment, which deprives the country of the opportunity to pursue sound economic policies and invest in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u42	Irade the Talman! Det är inte första gången ricksdage debatterar låneprogrammen för Grekland, men att vi inte har gjort det på en tid kan också vara ett gott tecken. Om man vågar saga så.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u43	Madam President! For the ordinary citizen and such a member of parliament, this development, of which this EFSF is part, seems to be a train that is almost impossible to intervene in the running of a small Finland. Railway work has been done years ago, and the train has been on the move for so long that things will not change even if we blow our cheeks red here. That is why we should be discussing more broadly where this Eurotrain is going and taking us in the longer term. An extension of the European Financial Stability Facility will be requested, with guarantee responsibilities extended to our grandchildren. How did this come about? When the European Economic and Monetary Union and the single currency were originally created, there were political reasons, but also idealism, the ideal of solidarity. The economy and agreements were seen as instruments for a more important goal: achieving peace, prosperity and interaction between peoples. The single currency was supposed to be unifying. No one was allowed to be excluded from the circle, especially the old European civilised states. Thus, Greece and Italy, for example, were quickly admitted to the European Economic and Monetary Union. The agreed conditions for Emu membership were also long ignored. However, the problems related to the accounting of the Greek economy were already known in 2004, as well as how Greece, Italy and France tricked in order to meet the EMU criteria, and how Germany, France, Spain and Portugal, among others, broke the EMU rules in turn. This has created a culture of non-interference throughout the euro area. Good relations have in practice been considered more important than compliance with the rules. Large countries have wanted to protect their faces — and their banks. In the warnings of former World Bank economist Joseph Stiglitz, among other things, the euro is finally threatening to break the European spirit of solidarity between peoples, perhaps as a framework for joint decision-making across the EU. This should be borne in mind when the situation in Italy is acute right now. The Italians have pointed out that the country’s economy is in good shape, except for sovereign debt. If this is the case at the moment, what will happen when the next recession comes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u46	All right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u47	Madam President! The Old Government, the Katainen Government, the Stubbi Government, the Sipilä Government — all the parliamentary groups sitting in this Chamber have been involved in these cabinet coalitions to deal with the Greek crisis, to take responsibility, to sign the basic line. Arhinmäki, Niinistö, Wallin, Räsänen: everyone has been involved. The basic line and every stage of the solution to this very difficult question — the very difficult question — have been the best possible solution for Finns in the time being. I'm sure of this. There may be hindsight in what would have been wise, which would not, but in that moment the best course of action has been done. I am hating all those decision-makers who have been in difficult places to make and negotiate these solutions together with their European partners. Where we are today, Greece is out of the programme — that is, out of the programme, Greece is on its own.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u50	Now, I am sure now that we are in the debatable phase, first of all for the users of group speeches and then also for Mr Väyrynen, on request, a little longer, as has been agreed. Let's take Mr. Ala-Nissila first.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u51	Mr President! As has been said, we live in a single currency and in a global economy. It's very demanding. When Finland joined the euro under the leadership of social democrats, the coalition and interest groups, the centre was not in favour of a rapid euro membership. We warned that we should then also live in Finland, be able to restructure, take care of the public finances. Fortunately, a competitiveness pact and structural reforms have been concluded during this term of government. It is precisely the kind of life we can manage to improve employment in the context of the single currency. Now I think that the great danger to the euro is this nonsense populism which is beginning to take over in some countries, such as Italy, at the moment. It is the real threat of forgetting the facts of the economy. This is precisely a threat to the living conditions and security of poor people. Even in Greece, poor people suffer the most. Those bankers are not there on the livelihood hatch, but poor people are suffering when economic policy is taken over by populists, and this must now be remembered and brought to Europe with this strong message. It is not possible to loosen, it is not possible to get in the way of moral hazard. I am surprised at the Social Democrats' line. Are you really in favour of cyclical adjustment funds, i.e. putting risks on the back of others in the euro area? This is a very dangerous road and I would urge you to reconsider it. It seems that the Left Alliance would at least open the door to such a policy that is seriously endangering the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u53	Mr President! We've almost turned blame into art. When we are not in a situation like this, where we talk about the economy of Greece and Italy, we are able here to accuse each other, then accuse the fraternal parties of their bad behaviour in those countries. The fact is, however, that Greece — and that is good — is entering the market. In Greece, however, these measures have enabled the situation to be turned in a positive direction. In my view, this extension period, which is now being given to Greece for the payment of the loan, is no longer relevant in that way. What is more important is that the conditions for paying this loan are such that Greece will in practice also be able to cope with them. But as I said in my group speech, the problem is that we have another firehouse in Italy. Contrary to what Mr Kankaanniemi said, the new Italian Government is irrelevant in this respect and that the old governments bear the responsibility,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u56	Mr President! It has been a little confusing to listen to some of these speeches. For example, the centre strongly opposed such debt relief in 2013. It seems that every other parliamentary term in the city centre disagrees with itself. Can you say that now the center is deceiving itself? It has also happened that, at the beginning of this reign, the present and former Finns did make the third support package for Soini One, i.e. Greece, EUR 86 billion, so here we go. But the Social Democrats have been consistent all along, and that is why, Minister Orpo, the important thing now is: We said that this path of debt relief has now been completed once and for all. We want everyone to be responsible for their own debts and there is no longer any extension of the loan periods; that is the end of the road. We asked you: can you say straight away that the route of extending the loan periods has been completed? This is very important and we want the government to make this clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u57	Madam President! As has been said here, Italy is currently living beyond its resources and there is no political desire to go through the necessary structural reforms of the economy. Italy has been at an economic standstill for a long time, so the forecasts of future growth by the current government are not based on realism. Disappointment with the old parties and their lobby policies has led to the emergence of new political movements in Europe in the context of the economic crisis. Unfortunately, not all of these have a desire for real responsibility. Thus, economic wisdom predicts that, possibly in 2020, the world economy will return to a new recession. We need to act on it now. The euro differential mechanism proposed by the Blues would contribute to the deterrence of the euro countries that manage their economies. If the euro could be separated, there would also be a real political price for poor economic management. My question, Mr Finance Minister: would the creation of such a new mechanism, the Euroregistration, be likely to increase economic discipline in the euro area?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u58	Mr President! I certainly did not speak on behalf of the current Italian Government, but I said that it was able to hold the cargo that the previous socialist and right-wing governments had achieved, that is, a huge debt burden. At that time they promised to drop it to 60 percent, and now it is over 130. So here's the deal. In Greece, however, Syriza, who was criticised when it came to power, has acted in some sense, and it is possible that this Italian government is still making a wise policy and not killing people with misery, but it will be seen in time. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: how do you now assess the evolution of interest rates and their impact on the prospects for both Greece and Italy, and for Greece — there will be elections next year — perhaps also the political risk there will be?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u59	Mr President! If you look back at the moments when Greece and I were really in pain and wondered whether the euro area could withstand any such development that was seen, then you have to think that we are now on a happier side and, as the Minister said, the economic development of Greece is on the plus side. Of course, the ordinary Greeks have been severely disciplined by the crisis that has been there. But I too would like to turn my eyes to the future – there have already been a number of representatives who have raised Italy's development to a worrying point, an increase in interest rates there – and also to the EU's mechanism of influence, particularly now before the European elections, before next summer, to have a friendly effect on Italy's development so that populist forces do not increase as the EU is instructed and pushed away, because it is quite clear that Italy must be involved in this European development. It cannot take its own budget away from what are general standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u60	Madam President! Minister Orpo, I think we all agree in this Chamber that we are thinking of the best interests of Finland, the interests of the European Economic Area and also the interests and best and future of the Greeks, and that is why this extension programme has been carried out. Here, in your group statement, it was stated that this extension, the facilitation of debt conditions, could in fact lead to a reduction in Finland's liabilities and a reduction in Finland's payment burden. Even in the summer, the Left Alliance suggested that we should be more relieved. It could have been even more of Finland's interest in the long term if Greece had had the opportunity to rise even faster from the discipline that this hard policy has brought it to. And another point worthy of consideration is that you are accusing us of considering, for the future of the euro area, some kind of cyclical adjustment mechanism or some kind of fiscal union. Remember, Mr Orpo, that no monetary union in the world has worked a day without some sort of equalisation system. How could the euro area be a complete exception?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u62	Mr President! In fact, I prefer to think about the future too. It seems that dealing with the whole of the euro crisis and the Greek crisis and with the crisis that we all share seems rather difficult, at least in an analytical academic sense, which would perhaps be most healthy if we wanted to learn for the future. I would like to ask Minister Orpo: what is your view of what is still, for example, Greece's challenges to make the economy better and perhaps to change its social decision-making and culture? However, time is rather short for a change in such a social system. I'd love to hear your analysis.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u63	Madam President! Therefore, representatives of the Christian Democrats in the large committee and in the Committee on Finance have consistently proposed in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, that Finland should not accept further reductions in the terms of the Greek loan programme. In addition, we have insisted that the Finnish Government should ensure that the collateral arrangement for 2011 is secured and that the situation should not increase Finland's responsibilities. We believe that these policies remain valid for us. We need more debate on the future of economic and monetary union. It would also be a good idea to prepare for it if everything collapses. We should not blindly trust that none of us will know how Greece will eventually develop over the next 30 years and whether there will perhaps be any new developments that will emerge later, as has happened in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u64	Mr President! Today, economic experts broadly agree that the transition to the single currency was a serious mistake. The problem is that too much euro area was created. It is made up of far too many different economies. There are two basic ways of repairing the mishap in the euro area, as proposed by a working group led by Professor Vesa Kanniainen in Finland. Firstly, it is possible for all euro area Member States to adopt a national currency alongside the euro. This is the model that I originally drove in the European Parliament. The second option is that part of the euro area Member States are different. Of course, Finland should be among the first. It was a big mistake that Finland as the only Nordic country was included in the euro area. In particular, comparison with Sweden shows how much we have suffered from this. After all, this has led to Finland being forced to support these countries in a debt cycle with debt money. In the Committee on the Future, experts have warned that within the next two years, the next economic crisis in the euro area, perhaps even globally, will come. It will test the future of the euro area, and then these two options for correcting the run-off of the euro area will have to be considered. Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. The motion for a motion of censure on the government tabled by Mr Kankaanniemi. Finally, Minister Orpo's comments on the Hanse alliance seem to predict that much more money will be put into the ESM. This is the camouflage to cover up this plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u65	I say to Mr Väyrynen that there is no support for the debate, but you will then be able to do so in the actual speech. — — — — The next thing you know, we're gonna go back to our debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u66	Mr President! The important question now in this debate is that we really need to know from the government whether the government's view is that this road has now been completed. Like Mrs Viitane, I would also like to join those who were a little surprised by the group speech in the centre, which did have a somewhat arrogant and guilty tone as to whether the opposition has sufficient views here, given that the centre actually approved bilateral loans without a debt arrangement, without the responsibility of a private investor, without any guarantees. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u67	Madam President! Every time a word is flashing in the documents, Greece seems to be triggering a different kind of idle populism, which is already quite flat and actually time-consuming, because when we look around, the euro area is in place and has even received new members in this crisis years and, most importantly, Greece is recovering and is returning to the market, and this is essential. That is why we must now look to the future, to the future of the euro area and to the future of Europe. It is quite clear — let us say it quite clearly now — that each country is responsible for its own debts and there is no justification for building any kind of transfer union. This is the Social Democrats' line, and I am sure that is clear to everyone now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u70	Mr President! The euro is an unoptimal currency area built on political grounds, to which the globalist parties first took Finland and then tied us to various guarantee arrangements and mechanisms. We realistic parties believe and believe that joining the euro was a mistake and we want to restore our own money and independent monetary policy. Finland must leave the euro to save itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u74	Mr President! When we visited a large committee on the road to Rome a month ago, I must say that the concerns about Italian economic policy have deepened. After all, there is a risk that government bonds accumulated in the balance sheet of Italian banks will lose value and then, even now, the additional capitalisation of HFs will be required. The bank crisis is right behind the door. And at the same time, what about the banking union, when already the big Italy has been the most problematic member? The committee's expert was harshly dismayed: the banking union is dead. What do we do now, Minister Orpo, if the banking union does not move forward? I do not wish you any more well-intentioned hopes and dreams a year after that of getting ahead, but could we go to the Hansa Group or other willing parties to agree on the terms of the banking union and then those countries that are able to fulfil them begin to protect themselves? Otherwise, we will be insecure and vulnerable in the increasingly bumpy 2020s
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u75	Mr President! Several speeches here have rightly highlighted that each Member State has a primary responsibility for its own economy, for its debts and also for the necessary structural reforms in its own economy, in the labour market and in society in general. In this respect, ratings also follow every Member State, including Finland. Among other things, credit ratingrs in Finland have considered very strongly that, among other things, a major restructuring, a regional and social reform, must be carried out in Finland. Minister! The question in this connection: what kind of credit risk is involved in the fact that, for some reason, regional and social reform, for example, is not taking place here in Parliament's legislative work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u76	Madam President! I hope we will not have to talk about Greece again, but all the more so about Italy, as has been done in this debate. I think Mr Haavisto asked a good question about the right way to influence Italy. When the Union hardens Italy to comply with the earlier agreements, the Italian populist government, which, I think, has a few populists in every color, will turn this to its own advantage by showing that the EU is a terrible enemy, which in this way gets involved in their good intentions, and support is growing. It must be said, after watching what happened in Greece, and now what is happening in Italy, that knowledge, the perception that the euro is not an optimal currency area, has only become stronger when the Mediterranean countries have looked at it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u77	Mr President! It is typical of the EU that blue-eyed leaders make red-eyed decisions about the morning, and I must say that this blue-eyed decision was made by the reds this time: red eyes, blue-eyed decision. This negotiating result, which was obtained, was the type of euro area as a whole, unoptimal, as Mr Zyskowicz said here. On the other hand, I must say that in this Chamber, at some point, Members of all the parliamentary groups have given support to Greece, which means that it is also a place to look in the mirror if you throw so many stones at others. As Mr Mölsä pointed out in his group speech, it should be possible to create a mechanism for separating or withdrawing from the euro area. I wonder what Mr Huhtasaari has said in that I understand that you do not want to leave the EU as a party and you do not want Finland to be expelled from the EU. Well, then, how do you think you are going to break up with the euro, because it is not just something you can do at the moment? What is essential is that Greece should be able to discharge its own obligations properly, and that is what this government's proposal and the euro area as a whole are trying to achieve at the moment:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u78	Mr President! Nothing is eternal, even though Euro-fanatists say that the euro is eternal. [Current Group: Neither was the Soviet Union!] And to Minister Orpo, Greece will never pay its debts. It's never been paid five times in the past, and now it's gonna be the sixth time. We all know this realism when we look at the figures. In the EU, we should have a say in letting go of the euro now, for goodness sake, making it possible to withdraw from the euro. It's got to be possible to get to a healthier bottom.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u80	Mr President! Yes, this Greece needs to be discussed when it is here for decision-making. This fundamentalism in the euro area is that Member States do not pay each other’s debts — the Member States do not pay each other’s debts — and in order to keep to it, there must also be some limit to debt arrangements, the postponement of the payment of loans. You can't go on forever. In certain circumstances, the creditor’s interest may be that when a debtor is believed to put his or her affairs in order, payment time is given. This has now been done for Greece. It is now important for Greece to receive a clear signal that it will be possible to move on to repay these loans. It must be a unified message, and it is important that Finland represents this position and says that we have now done our part; it is now up to Greece to start preparing for debt repayment for all debts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u81	Mr President! The Greek case is a sad number, and it is true that the Greeks have suffered the most in their time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u84	Madam President! I vividly remember when Timo Soini, the chairman of the Finns Party, promised before the elections that if the Finns are in the government, no cents of money would go to Greece. It took two months after the election, and all Finns, both modern and former, accepted the Greek Third Package in this Parliament. But, Mr President, I hope that we can move forward so that, now that everyone has been involved at some point, there will be less moralisation and more looking forward. I am concerned that now that there has been a left-wing government in Greece for four years and that the economy has been restored and, at the same time, an attempt has been made to look after ordinary citizens, what if Nea Dimocracy, who is a member of the United States, once again comes to power — the Nea Dimocracy, the coalition party that drove Greece into this situation. Will the line of concern for citizens and the economy continue?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u87	Mr President! The scheme of globalists and federalists began already in the EU referendum, because it was not then told to the people that the mark would be taken away in secret and the euro replaced. This must be remembered that we are still living in this climate of dishonesty. It must be made quite clear to everyone that the Halla-aho Finns do not benefit from the debt relief of euro loans, not to mention capital cuts. Nor should this guarantee be extended, because this clearly only increases the likelihood of debt relief again. This whole debate, this whole glaze and the suggestion that now the euro currency is somehow starting to succeed again is only one part of this continuing federalist and globalist scam.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u88	There are 13 replies here, we will take them at this stage. Then the Minister will answer and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u89	Madam President! Greece has gone in the right direction, as has been heard from several mouths in this debate, and Finland's responsibilities are not increasing with these actions, and that too is hopefully in the interests of Finns in the long run. However, the focus is now on Italy and the problems in Italy. The five-star movement in Italy, as Mr Turunen said, does not deserve even one star in its finances, and some of us still want to learn from that party and bring them to Finland. I'm surprised. Mr Orpo, the situation in Italy: how do you see it and what opportunities Italy has under the leadership of this five-star movement to cope with its own challenges?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u90	Mr President! For Finland, it has been important to improve the sustainability of Greek debt and the balance of government finances as regards these difficult situations in Greece. We Social Democrats have called for more than once for a stronger focus on economic growth, investment and employment, alongside financial measures. This has been an important topic for us to discuss. From this point of view, I think that the government has come from a different perspective to take this matter forward, and I would now be interested to hear Minister Orpo's response to how you have invested in Finland's authority and ability to debate in these discussions, particularly in the Eurogroup. I am also interested in your position on this, at what point we are now in the process of extending the Greek loan periods. Do you see that in the future there will be a limit to the extension of Greek loan terms?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u91	Madam President! It is worth recalling this point: when Finland joined the euro in 2002, before that decision, there was a strong debate in this House about the extent to which the euro has serious losses. Now that we are criticizing the measures that have been taken in this house, it is exactly the same thing — the doing of the measures in this house — as if we were criticizing the fire department that is putting out the pyromaniac trails. So here we were dealing with the situation by taking decisions that included, among other things, the weak southern countries of Europe, such as Greece, Italy and so on. Huge amounts of debt came along and no financial responsibility was received for these decision-makers there. That's what we're sick about, and this is what we have to live with. The banking union has already come and is becoming stronger and stronger, but it is also worth remembering that if the decision-makers of these euro countries do not feel the financial responsibility in their countries, then it is really on the weak ice and the future does not look too rosy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u92	Mr President! Yeah, we have to look ahead. After all, Finland complies with these common fiscal rules. On the other hand, Italy does not follow them. This is the problem. Our position is that each EU country must strengthen its own level playing field. That is the key to getting ahead of these problems. In fact, the most serious problem I see is that we have still not been able to break the link between banks and the home country. In fact, this open spike by the ECB only made it worse, because even now, if we look at Italian sovereign loans, there is a very large proportion of them in the home country. That is why I propose that the capital requirement for sovereign loans should be gradually increased, and if the bank has a lot of home loans, then even more capital requirements should be required. All in all, then, I would like to say that we should stick to the statement adopted by Parliament in 2012 that this step-by-step, cumulative decision-making power for the budget should be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u93	Mr President! Pontius Pilate would have much to learn about the washing of hands that this debate involves. It must be asked that Timo Soiniko raised Mr Tavio's hand there in the large committee in the summer of 2015, when Greece's three votes were taken. At least nobody picks up my hand, but I'll pick it up myself if I want to pick it up. And then I raised up and take responsibility for it, as I do for all the decisions I make in this Chamber or as a representative. This was a completely new information from the Finnish People's Party that you want to separate from both the EU and the euro. So you want Finland to be in the position of Ukraine: Russia's neighbour, not the EU, not NATO. I would at least find it quite difficult to sell such a solution to the Finnish electorate, but I wish you reasonable success in doing so. Mr Viitanen said here, as a good line of demars themselves, that everyone is responsible for their own debts. This is a good line, but when we know that there is probably nothing going to happen in Italy, there will be a certain kind of post-election war before the European elections, then this will be a question for the demersals during the next term of government, if you are responsible for the government, will you really keep this line? That remains to be seen. The line itself is right and good, hold on to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u94	Mr President! When Finland joined the EU 23 years ago and the single currency to the euro a little later, one of the most effective attractive slogans was: ‘Food bag cheapensa great’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u97	Congressman Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u98	Thank you, Speaker! To Mr Uotila, as much as you referred to this group speech by the Assembly, I said that the extension of the guarantee will not increase Finland's overall liability and, on the contrary, Finland's risks may be reduced if the reduction in loan periods makes it easier for the Greek economy to recover.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u101	Next up, Congressman Uotila. — This is another group speaker, for the third time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u102	Thank you, Madam President. I repeat that the single currency without a common fiscal policy, the cyclical adjustment mechanism and the ability to tackle the internal surpluses of euro area countries will continue to lead to problems and uneven developments, which will be exacerbated by economic discipline rules. Some countries benefit at the expense of others, but only losers are punished. In a more just system, shared well-being is also shared more fairly, not so that all benefits go to those who are doing well anyway. For example, this may refer to Germany's continuing high surplus, which is the deficit of others, as some in the euro area are in deficit of others. As far as the mutual treatment of countries is concerned, we must remember that these terms of the Stability and Growth Pact were ignored when Germany and France were guilty. The Left believes that the rules should be followed, whether or not the friends of the major European parties are in power in the countries in question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u103	There are still five people who have asked to speak: Mr Ala-Nissilä, Mr Mölsä, Mr Kankaanniemi, Mr Huhtasaari and Mr Pekkarinen. But Pekkarinen is not here, and Mr Viitanen wishes to speak again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u104	Mr President! I was left unclear as to whether the SDP was in favour of the cyclical adjustment fund in the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u107	President! This is what came in conveniently, namely that I have just made notes to ask Mr Ala-Nissila when he has the floor, do you remember any of your group speeches you said in 2013. At the time, Mr Lehtomäki was very strongly opposed to any extension of these debt periods. It was the way of destruction. It was the road to destruction, and now the centre itself, the central government, is extending these loan periods by 10 years. [Department :Previously! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u110	There are three more here, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u111	Mr President! It is quite clear that the Finnish people's line is an independent Finland, so independent that we are not ordered from Brussels, Frankfurt or Moscow. In fact, in the last six years, the European Central Bank has bought some EUR 70 billion in loans from Greece, for example, and Finland accounts for around 2% of that, that is, one and a half billion. Such responsibility has been secreted through the central banking system to Finnish taxpayers, Greek loans. At the same time, Greece has come out of its most expensive loans. This game is no longer going on and cannot continue. In the case of Italy, over this six-year period, approximately 350 billion ECB bonds have been purchased by the ECB. Finland's share: approximately 7 billion. In other words, huge responsibilities have come to Finland, and so far these countries have stood up. This is something that we do not accept, through the European Central Bank, for our responsibilities to increase in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u113	Mr President! Last season, as a new Member of Parliament, in 2011 and 2012 — do you remember what you said, Mr Viitanen?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u119	Let's get an answer to this right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u120	Mr President! It is good that this came up, namely that single has not yet ended, it is a very long LP. I am going to remind you that when the Social Democrats came to the government, the line changed. The line adopted jointly by Finland as a whole became stricter and, as required by the Social Democrats, Jutta Urpilainen persistently negotiated guarantees for the protection of Finnish taxpayers. Maybe you're a little upset about that, but the fact is... There are now a billion guarantees in London that I have not seen the True Finns or Blues achieve in their own works of fame. Instead, Mr Mölsä,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u123	Mr Huhtasaari and then the Minister will respond. Then let's go on the list for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u124	Mr President! When the wire fails, it's changed. I'm glad we've got rid of Soin's blue ones. Then I would like to reply to Mr Ala-Nissilä, who asks where we are taking Finland. Well, to the same ruckus where Iceland, Norway and Switzerland are already. An independent state with independent decision-making powers and, preferably, a direct democracy. We want to develop Finland towards a more direct democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u127	Mr President! Of course, there are those countries that are trying to influence the future of the European Union and then the countries of the South that take all the legislation directly from the EU will have to comply with them, but will not be able to do so. And if, for example, there is a danger — and that is a permanent danger — that the Commission is trying to concentrate too much power on itself, then it is the Member States with the right to vote that are able to give it a better alternative and to establish the cooperation between the Member States which is a constructive alternative to shouting at the sidelines, but which must be done as the gentlemen in Brussels dictate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u128	Mr President! Yes, this is the climax of this debate to say that the solution is for Finland to leave both the euro area and the European Union and, as Mr Harakka has said here, to join the silent partners of the countries of the EEA. It does not need a lot of statesmanship or state-resistance when it comes to this policy. I myself have been the Minister of Finance as President of the Ecofin Council on the spot when Switzerland, Norway, Iceland signs the thousands of strips that have been made over the last six months. It was one meeting where I asked whether these six-month-old decisions were going to be taken by you, and each in turn said yes, and then I announced that the EU would offer lunch.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u129	And then, Minister Orphan, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u130	Mr President! When I first listed names, the names of finance ministers Katainen, Urplainen, Rinne and Stubb and perhaps also the chairman of the Finns, the blue representative Soini, should also be mentioned. So, in addition to what I mentioned above, everyone has been making these decisions — all of them — and all the parliamentary groups, and they have been important. We are in a much better situation with Greece than we were, for example, a few years ago, when Greece and, as a result, the euro area were on the verge of a crisis. Greece has returned to the market, or is out of the programme, and the view is better. Now it is up to the Greeks, and it must be hoped that the Greek decision-makers will also shoulder their responsibilities. After all, the discipline policy has now been followed, and you in the left-wing union were now afraid that it would be abolished if there were to be an exchange of parties. I don't always understand this logic, but maybe one day it'll open. But when we look back, I think that the development of a banking union is essential. The banking union also protects the euro area. It is an essential part of the stability of the euro. In fact, next Monday we will have an additional Eurogroup and in December we will have another Euro, and then we will have the euro at the level of the Heads of State or Government, which is to agree on a backstop, a strong reserve fund, which will be set up within the ESM. When we move on from it, we must definitely strive for common deposit protection as Finland, but it absolutely requires, as has been said here, risk reduction. The problem now is that those risks lie first and foremost in the Italian banks, and when we know the situation in Italy, I am not very optimistic about this, that is to say, the common deposit guarantee is somewhere very far away in the future. It is definitely in the interests of the Finnish depositor and taxpayer, and we have to work to get there. The development of the ESM, as I said earlier, is absolutely essential, with a strong debt mechanism. So these are the things that must be done for the development of the euro. Mr Rinne rightly asked what we are doing to ensure growth, employment and prosperity in the euro area and in the EU. There are important issues for all of us Finns: the development of the internal market, the development of a digital single market, the development of a Capital Markets Union, support for growth, investment in knowledge and so on. All these issues will be discussed at the Eurogroup table at almost every meeting, but it is important that we should prepare together for the Presidency, when Finland must raise these issues and promote the work programme of the new Commission. The situation in Italy became a number of questions: Yes, there is cause for concern. The debt situation in Italy is very difficult. The banking sector includes risks, and there is a government in Italy that does not follow the common rules in its draft budget. Now it was quite right that the Commission intervened decisively and called on the Italian Government to correct its draft budget, but I am not at all hopeful that this solution will be found immediately, but that dialogue between the Commission and the Italian Government will continue. Sooner or later it will have to lead to a situation where a common note can be found and Italy will comply with the rules. Otherwise, we can be in a situation where Italy, as a major economy, is beginning to destabilise the market and interest rates are rising and this is expanding to other countries, particularly the Mediterranean countries, which are currently on a good path. Portugal is on a good path as a former country of the programme, Spain is on a good path. They have corrected risk banks through the Banking Union mechanisms, particularly in Spain last year. So let's do real work. I would like to remind everyone that, according to opinion polls, 70% of Finns are in favour of EU membership. The support for the euro is in the same order. Finns are a wise people and understand that our place is in Europe and we must be involved in developing both the European Union and our common currency. For example, in relation to these issues, Finland plays a very central role with this so-called Hans group — eight smaller countries in northern Europe, and we are united by a common idea of how we want to develop the euro area, and we are being listened to both in the development of the banking union and in the development of the euro. If Finland is active and wants to take up space, it is also available and available, especially in the context of the internal challenges facing both Germany and France. This Hansa group is actually being listened to at the moment, and it is absolutely worthwhile for Finland to use that situation, and yes we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u131	Then let's go to the list of speakers. Five minutes is the recommended time.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u135	Minister Orpola failed to answer a question. - Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u136	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity. — Yes, it was asked several times whether this was the last time. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is done so that the loan programme should no longer be extended, not extended, and so that it can be managed by Greece. But when it comes to Greek decision-makers in the coming years, the Greek Government, the Greek economy, I cannot promise it on their behalf. Everything has been done on behalf of the Eurogroup, and Finland is involved in this being the last extension of the loan programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u138	Mr President! For the EU elite, the euro is more a political project than an economic issue. The euro project has shown the inability of EU leaders. Even now in Finland, Sipilä’s government — or the present finance minister, Orpo — sits with his feet crossed, hoping that the crises in the southern euro countries will not start before the elections. If that were the case, I'm sure the government will have explanations in the back pocket by now. The Minister of Finance Orpo has started to speak the modified truth with the government partners and took it to the point where they glow Greece clean and Finland gets its money back. This dirty show started as the last Midsummer. Finland does not get its money back, but follows one relief after another. Greece's government debt remained at 178.6 per cent last year. The economies of the other southern euro area countries are also experiencing a crisis, with the prospect of the next — well, already in crisis — Italy. So the problems of the euro area are not going anywhere; the crisis is going to start again. When, it's only a matter of time. Finland must be prepared for the euro area to fall. The situation can be escalated quickly, so it would be important to prepare. Repayment of the euro area's common debts is moving further and further into the future. We are talking about the fact that the EFSF's funding guarantees must remain in force until the end of 2082. Until the end of 2082! How many of us are there to see the end here? The Finnish is now borrowing money, and the federalists are trying to convince the grandchildren to see the return. The unpatriotic policy pursued by the federalists has made Europe chaos and vulnerability. We need the rise of nationalist parties, that our beloved Europe be restored to its feet and that the nations be independent. I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u139	Mr President! After listening to the speeches of ten parliamentary parties, the eleventh party did not appear to be taking part in the debate, one might say that each party felt that it had acted consistently from beginning to end in line with its own line. To be honest, every party has made mistakes, but it has also tried to act according to its best understanding and ability in all situations. In a way, I find it interesting that other parties are still defending the line they have taken, others are trying to completely forget what they have done. The Finns today have done quite a convex job many times. At first they strongly opposed all possible packages in the euro area before the elections. It was promised not a cent to Greece if the Finns are in the government. It took two months for the Finns to accept the three. Every one of them, both present and former, voted in favour of this package. And there is no point in saying that the management then, for you continued under its leadership for more than two years, without question, you also voted in favour of every basic safety cut, for every index freeze, for every reduction in the reimbursement of medicines. That's when this muttering didn't come, but now it's like being born again, it's all behind us what's been done. Instead, the Left Alliance continues to tell us what it has done, is proud of some of the action, some of it being said that it did not go quite as we hoped.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u142	Mr President! This Greek way of suffering is a reminder to us decision-makers. When decision-makers make mistakes, citizens suffer, ordinary people get into excessive difficulties. Not only were irresponsible Greek politicians able to survive without sanctions, but also those members of the disciplinary corps, the highest officials in the international institutions, who put in place the terms of the loan programme. They have now moved to other hotels and new countries. In Greece, however, children were left unvaccinated when they could no longer afford it. Even TB returned to the street, and more and more people got into the street. All those who were able to move out of the country, and the rest had to receive immigrant troops from Africa and the Middle East. No wonder in this situation neo - Nazi death squads took over the streets of Athens. We welcome the fact that the Greek economy is once again on its feet, but I repeat the criticism that the Social Democrats have already expressed in the summer of 2015: in addition to this financial programme and this economic discipline, not enough attention was paid to genuine conditions for economic growth, investment and the conditions of employment in which the Greeks would have had their destiny in their own hands. And we Social Democrats did not come up with this observation that this economic discipline programme was too limited. In fact, it was a self-criticism of the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, for this programme which they themselves were putting in motion, and in that respect it failed. That is why it is important to make one more point. When we talk about the debts of Greece, we are actually talking about the debts of the banks of France, Germany and Britain. Of the EUR 200 billion paid by 2013, half did not even visit Greece, but immediately returned as a boomerang to the accounts of German, French and British speculator banks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u147	Mr President! The euro is an unoptimal currency area built on political grounds. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Denmark has an opt-out, Denmark is not going to join the euro, of course, because the Danish economic wisdom has already seen in advance that they do not want to give up an independent monetary policy. Sweden, on the other hand, should have joined as well as Finland, but Sweden will probably not tell us what century it intends to join the euro, especially when the results are visible. The EU project also went wrong. If we look at the kind of countries in the queue for candidates or the type of ‘candidate countries’, there are no net contributors. Does Mr Heinäluoma think that Denmark therefore made an opt-out because it felt that the euro would be good or bad for them? Does Mr Heinäluoma think that he already felt a little sorry for Iceland and Norway and Switzerland when they do not belong to the EU that they would be even better off if they belonged to the EU? I wonder why these countries are not in the candidate countries. Why did Switzerland withdraw its application from the EU and membership, and Iceland also withdrew its candidate membership and no longer even want to be candidate countries? Is it because the EU is also a failure and the results are visible? This is now a question of extending the duration of the guarantees, which means that this is artificial respiration. So the steak is that once again we are reviving a project, a political project called the Euro Monetary Union, and every time we put more time into the guarantee period, the more uncertain we are taking the situation. I am particularly concerned about where this euro train is going all the time. Nationalist politics means that your people first, and what is the harm in that? Nationalist policy means asking the people and at the very least keeping the power of decision with representative democracy. However, in this EU project and the euro project, decision-making on financial support is intended to be converted into a reinforced qualified majority, which means from the perspective of Finland that no further questions will be asked from small countries, such as Finland. By qualified majority decisions only Germany, France and Italy have the right to take decisions. Consequently, Finland could have to pay up to EUR 11.14 billion in additional capital to the ESM even if it had voted against the decisions on financial support. It is particularly important that Heikki Koskenkylä’s statement, which he has given to Parliament, is that ‘the Commission’s proposal aims at a significant increase in solidarity, a partial transfer of economic policy power to the Commission, a central decision on growth and the sharing ofrisks among the Member States’. I do not understand why any country, a nation state, would want to move decision-making away from supranational bodies. I do not understand imperialist politics, because we know that, without nationalism, Finnish reality would not even exist. It is something that Norway, Iceland and Switzerland have wanted to preserve, and we, as the only Nordic country, were fooled into joining this monetary union, which has now even been said by Sixten Korkman that it was a mistake. Now we have also seen that we have ten years lost in economic growth. In other parts of the world there is an increase of around 3-4 %, we made this last train. For us, our own currency would have helped, as it did for Sweden back then.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u151	Mr President! This issue of the euro, the single currency, is probably one of the most discussed issues in this House. When Finland joined the euro from the beginning of 2002 and a few years before it joined this account currency, that meant a huge change in our entire Finnish society. Even when this decision was being prepared in this House, there was a political debate, and I remember, among other things, the strong contributions made by Mauri Pekkarinen, who was then a Member of Parliament and who was still in a demanding position. His message was very clear at the time: there is a serious run-off in the euro.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u158	There is now 4 minutes left for this debate, but I will give Mr Löfström the floor and then a very brief comment, one minute for the Minister, and then move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u159	Irade the Talman! Det är rimligt att vi förlänger återbetalningstiden med 10 år för för det lån som Grekland har beviljats av EFSF, där Finland är med. En förlänning av lånen gör inte att Finland förlorar några pengar, men det gör bördan lättare för Grekland då betalningarna skjuts upp över längre tid. Det ökar i sin tur chansen att Grekland kan återvända helt och hållet till de internationella lånemarknaderna och betala tillbaka lånen till Finland och övriga euroländer i sin helmat. Detta gynnar tillväxten i Grekland, och det ökar således allmänhetens stöd för de reformer man gjort för att slå vakt om landsets finansiella stabilitet. Således är det bra. Samtidigt är det viktigt att betona att Grekland behöver fortsätta vandra länge på den väg man nu vandrar och hålla economist i balans. De nödlån som Finland och de andra euroländerna lånde ut var för att rädda Grekland från en okonsohd statsbankrutt, effersom landet levt över sina egna tillgångar för länge samt medvenet förvrängt sin egen budgetstatistik som man visade upp. De lånen villkorades med betydande reformer i Grekland för att garantera att Grekland skulle komma tillbaka och också betala tillbaka lånen. De andra krisländerna, Cypern, Irland, Portugal och Spanieen, har också lämnat sina program bakom sig, och de länderna är tillbaka. Det visar att de insantser som gjordes lyckades, aven om de inte var populära hos alla. Vi räddade den ekonomiska stabiliteten i eurozone och Europa, och det är av stor betydelse också för Finland. Irade the Talman! Det är viktigt att dr lärdomar från den ekonomiska krisen. Av den anledningen är det oroveckande att nu följa utvecklingen i Italien, något som många andra ledamöter redan tags upp. Italiens regering har godkänt ett budgetförslag som går stick i stav med landsets tidigare löften om att spectera EU's stablets- och tillväxtpakt. De spelregler vi kommit överens om måste följas, och Italien har EU:s näst största statsskuld i förhållande till bnp, över 130 percent. Irade the Talman! Skuld är som gravity: om vikten blir för tung, kommer den att dra ner dig. Om man kör för nära klippkanten, finns risken att marken rämnar om ens vikt är för tung, och det är den italienska statsskulden. Ett fall skulle drabba Italien värst, men också aventyra hela eurozone. Italien är inte Grekland, Italien är mångdubbelt större. Därför är det av mycket stor betydelse att Italien inte hamnar i en kris. Det är onödigt att testa var gränsen för hållbarheten i räntan på italienska lån går. För marknaden är inte alltid rationalell och är änslig för risk och rädslor. Om rädslor grider tag i marknaden som den gjorde under den europeiska skuldkrisen, escalerar läget fort och det finns risk för att det spårar ur. Jag hoppas verklogen att Italiens regering inte utmanar den ekonomiska stabiliteten och gravitationen, och inte riskerar landsets ekonomiska stabilitet effectsom det skulle slå hårt mot vanliga Italynare. Irade the Talman! Det som taile i Grekland är en viktig påminnelse för alla länder. Grekland blev så skuldsatt att landet i practicekken kill control över sina egna finanser. Man hade inte längre självständig mact över sin egen budget, man had inte råd att betala ut löner till lärare, sjuksköterskor, poliser och brandmän samt andra tjänstemän om man inte skulle ha fått krishjälp. Det är ett läge som är svårt att förestella sig att hamna i, och jag vill att vårt land aldrig någons hamnar där. Etter den ekonomiska krisens början har också den finländska statsskulden ökat betydligt. Suomeksi samma sätt som i alla andra länder handlar det i practiceken om att vi lånar pengar av kommande generationer, pengar som vi konsumerar i dag. Det är ohållbart i förlängningen, och det visar varför det är så viktigt att skuldspiralen bryts. Låneprogrammet i Grekland är en viktig påminnelse om att en som är i skuld inte är helt fri.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u160	Mr President! Now that there have been several speeches on this decision itself and on its continuation, I would like to say that the government and the signatory are going to assume that this will be the last time that these loan conditions will be loosened, and this arrangement will be made precisely because this will be the last time and so that Greece will succeed. In those negotiations, our position has clearly been taken to that table, a solution sought between Greece's survival and the interests of the Finnish taxpayer. We have defended the Finnish taxpayer and our interests, for example, in the fact that, in these negotiations, when the former have brought down the cuts in debt capital, we have been involved in the group that has rejected this and prevented its capital from being cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u163	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u164	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u165	Mr President! There was a lively and important topical debate about this EFSF and the fact that these debt relief conditions are now being reshaped in such a way as to extend the loan periods and postpone the payment of interest. We Social Democrats have given a clear signal that we want to be made aware that this road has now been completed and that we will never see these reliefs being made again. It is now time to act in such a way that it is understood everywhere that this is the case, and now Greece will have to start paying back these debts before long, without we being able to assume that, once again, some relief programmes will be known in the future. That is why, in quite a few speeches here, we repeated the fact that we have systematically paid great attention over the past few years to the fact that we need a line that supports sustainable growth, employment and investment in addition to these financial measures. And we have found that in a world like this, which we have now seen, the ordinary people, for example, have suffered a great deal there in Greece and the cake has not been beautiful, certainly not. On the subject of this day itself, we said that in this matter of debt relief we have clearly wanted a clear statement that the path of extending the loan periods has now been completed. President! Along the way, we have not had enough answers to these issues so that we can be convinced that the government is sufficiently committed to this type of activity, and I therefore put the following motion of censure: “The goal for Finland is to maintain the sustainability of Greek debt and the balance of This requires a stronger focus on economic growth, investment and employment, alongside financial measures. At the same time, social stability is supported, social problems caused by previous programmes are addressed and citizens' own-initiative demands for better governance are addressed. For several years now, euro area countries have made significant concessions on Greek loan terms which will help Greece return to the bond market. The SDP has been critical of the granting of loan terms and conditions. Finland's claims must be secured in all arrangements. This requires that the priority and repayment of ESM loans is secured. Under all circumstances, the SDP requires Finland to hold to the claims negotiated through the 2011 guarantee scheme. Finland must ensure that the repayment of bilateral loans starts at the latest as planned and that Finland’s interest is monitored. Since the government has not managed to bring sufficient decisive investment in economic growth, investment and employment alongside Greece's financial operations, and because the government did not clearly indicate in the communication debate how the government intends to act in the future to secure Finland's claims and to maintain the debt reduction in Greece, Parliament notes that the government does not enjoy Parliament's confidence." Here, President, our motion of censure and its wording.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u166	Madam President! I am in favour of Mr Pia I refer to the motion for a motion of censure, in accordance with its content.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u167	Madam President! Earlier in the day, there was a long and in-depth debate on European financial stability mechanisms, and one can say that they have increased the EU's ability to prepare for financial crises. As far as Greece is concerned, it is important that the country is able to return to its own feet financially and to ensure the security of its country and its citizens. This technical proposal from the government now supports it. After all, Greece is now doing better than, for example, in 2015, when we are considering additional funding for Greece through the ESM package. It is in the interests of Europe as a whole that all its Member States have the capacity to safeguard growth for the future and that the future economy of the euro area as a whole is secured. Earlier in the day, Mr Uotila put forward a motion of censure, which is very welcome. It highlighted the government's failure to defend the weaker in both domestic and EU policies. I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u168	The 3rd item in the agenda is the Prime Minister's announcement of the performance report on development policy 2018. After the speech by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development, Anne-Mari Virolainen, I will give the answers I have considered, for one or two minutes. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. An hour and a half is set aside for the proceedings.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u169	Mr President! The result report on Finland’s development policy now under discussion is an important step towards this Government’s development policy. In the development policy report adopted in spring 2016, four priorities were selected to support the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We also committed ourselves to reforming the way development cooperation works and monitoring results and to reporting on the results of Parliament's development policy. For the first time, this report brings together the results achieved in the various programmes and partnerships. The report assesses the success and challenges of the work and contains important findings on what development policy is wise to develop in order to achieve results. The report presents six recommendations, some focusing on the recipes of success and some on development challenges. It is important to note that the reported results are the results of Finland's long-term development policy. The implementation of development policy, as well as the results and impacts, are of considerable long-term importance. This report deals with the results reported during 2015-18. It is noteworthy that several programmes have been launched in previous government terms, even in 2006. A new look is precisely at the results and impacts, not just at the use and allocation of funds. In addition to numerical results, qualitative results and results of policy impact are reported. The report sets Finland’s development policy and its funded development cooperation as part of the wider work on sustainable development. Development cooperation alone does not change the world for the better, but with consistent support from different policy areas and actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u170	Mr. Speaker! It is regrettable that the Prime Minister is not here to answer questions about his announcement on development policy. Progress report on development policy The cuts made by the Sipilä government are hardly mentioned. However, they have made a decisive contribution to the effectiveness of Finland’s development policy. At the end of the previous parliamentary term, Finland was already reaching the GDP share of 0.7 per cent and becoming a member of the other Nordic countries. The cuts in appropriations will therefore also weaken our country's influence in international development cooperation. The reduction in development cooperation appropriations and the migration crisis have been a particularly bad combination. Immigration can be most effectively influenced by addressing root causes of migration and supporting the activities of refugee camps. The cut in appropriations has weakened Finland’s ability to finance related projects and activities. Here, too, we have lost our ability to influence the development policy pursued by other countries and multilateral cooperation. In autumn 2015, the government led by Juha Sipilä made the same mistake as the government led by Angela Merkel in Germany. The borders were opened to massive migration. Finland could have restored partial border controls, as the German and Austrian governments had already done and as the other Nordic countries did a little later. When this was not done, considerable costs have been incurred, and these costs of asylum seekers have been partly financed from development cooperation appropriations, which has reduced aid to developing countries. It is now urgent to resume and improve the quality of development cooperation funding so that poverty is effectively eliminated and sustainable development is promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u171	Mr President! Over 200 million girls and women's genitals have been mutilated, 12 million children get married every year, 214 million women do not get the kind of contraception they want. In many countries there is widespread discrimination and violence against girls and women, precisely because of their gender, and these were just a few very sad figures in relation to these statistics. As Minister Virolainen has already mentioned in his presentation, during the last parliamentary term Finland has put women and girls at the forefront of development policy, and this is a very important step forward in the development and promotion of equality. However, funding for this priority was reduced by around 40% as part of the budget cuts in development cooperation. This doesn't make any sense. Words should always correspond to deeds. Promoting the rights of girls is not only about equality but also about the key to the development of whole communities and societies. Fortunately, Finns agree widely, namely 88 per cent of Finns consider development cooperation important and 76 per cent consider it the best way to reduce global inequality to promote women's and girls' rights. If we leave the girls aside, our world will lose half its potential, and we really cannot afford this. The rights of girls and women must also be a priority for development policy during the next term of government, while ensuring adequate funding, guidance and monitoring. It is also important to take gender equality into account across development policy, so that all the development cooperation that has been carried out aims to dismantle narrow gender roles and discrimination and to achieve sustainable change in the position of women and girls.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u172	Mr President! First of all, I should like to thank the Minister for the fact that such results reporting has now begun. This is a good document and a good tool against the suspicious importing countries, who occasionally come up against the turbulent and squares who think that development funds go to the so-called Canker well. When we go through these results and what the money has done, this is a very convincing report. But then a little more negative. Like the previous speakers, I will first mention the development of appropriations. It is a shame that next year's estimates of revenue and expenditure will be at the level of 0.4 in development cooperation. It is not a Nordic level, it is not even a good European level, because we know all the challenges we face and I am referring to root causes, origins, wars, conflicts, climate change, which have then contributed to refugees. It would be most effective to influence directly there at the source. Unfortunately, the proportion of aid to the poorest countries and to the most vulnerable has also fallen in development cooperation. I understand that when these new financial instruments come and try to promote entrepreneurship and work, and so away, it is difficult to promote them in these poorest countries, but we should nevertheless keep them in our own sight as the most important beneficiaries of aid. Unfortunately, as far as NGOs are concerned, there has also been a cut in aid at the same time as it has been said that NGOs are often the most effective means of getting help and also of acting in a two-way manner, so that when we have indigenous peoples issues in these developing countries, environmental issues and they are not unambiguous, we often get weak signals and sometimes strong signals about what we could do better and where the root causes of conflicts are. And last but not least, Mr President, long-termism. Development cooperation should be long-term and projects should also go beyond government periods so that they are not unnecessarily interrupted or cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u173	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for submitting this report to Parliament. I would remember that the condition for reporting the results of Finland's development cooperation was already made in 2014 when Timo Soini was chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but thank you to the Government for today. The Group considers that development policy is part of Finland's foreign and security policy and its results contribute to Finland's foreign policy objectives. From the report we can read that Finland’s development policy is effective and its implementation has become more effective during this government term. After all, Finland has had very good development policy priorities during this term of government, as the Minister mentioned, of which I would like to highlight the need to improve the position of women and girls and to promote democratic principles. There has been welcome progress in these areas, such as the accessibility of women's health services, and of course other important priorities include poverty eradication, food security, clean water. These are important elements. Finland’s support has also generated business activities. I considered that more than 600,000 small businesses had access to financial services. What is important about this performance report and about the effectiveness of development policy is that when we get information about the results, we can channel resources where they are needed and do more with less. In the report, we read that Finland should therefore focus on a limited number of priorities based on key Finnish values and take long-term action in favour of them. This is a good place to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u174	Mr President! In my opinion, the introduction to the report sums up the essential core of development cooperation and development policy. Finland's results are not created in a vacuum, but in cooperation with different equipment. The results need to be examined at different levels and over time and are indeed influenced by a number of factors. A very useful reminder in this report, if not even an emergency call, relates to insufficient climate finance and, in particular, to the adaptation of developing countries if sustainable results are to be achieved. At the same time, the report describes well how Finland has been able to grow in the energy sector, especially through financial investments and Finnfund. The channelling of investment to sustainable targets is absolutely essential in the fight against climate change. Am I satisfied with the results of this report? Yes, in very many places I am, and I definitely want more of them to continue to go through the field of development cooperation. It is difficult to highlight a particular result beyond others, but the results of the humanitarian disability work of NGOs deserve very strong thanks and special mention. In addition, the report highlights the results achieved by NGOs, in particular evaluated programme support organisations, and gives them the space and appreciation they deserve. At the same time, it is good to be aware of development needs, especially in the reporting of cross-cutting themes — equality, climate, inequality — and the limitations of results, which often reflect volumes, not yet qualitative or broader social change. The report also often refers to external and internal evaluations. This too is very welcome. Perhaps I hope that the report will also explain more clearly the consequences of the recommendations. Finland should concentrate sufficient resources to achieve the main objectives and secure them by increasing total funding
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u175	Mr President! The results report shows that Finland’s development cooperation is successful. So the money's worth. The report focuses on development funding. However, we must remember, as the Minister said, that development policy is a larger entity than financial instruments, such as diplomacy, international taxation, peace-keeping, trade policy, EU influence, climate policy and all the policies that affect the conditions for sustainable development in developing countries and the lives of the poorest in the world. Development policy objectives must guide all these policy sectors. Mr President! So the results of development cooperation have been good, but the results have been weakened by the huge cuts in government funding. The Left sees that development cooperation funding now needs to be increased immediately, preferably next year. We need to redirect emissions auction revenues back to climate finance, and we need to create and commit to a path towards 0.7% of GDP. Mr President! So the results are good, but we must remember that all results are difficult to measure. For example, organisations do good and productive work, but it is difficult to put all the work, for example, in a numerical form, in order to promote human rights. In some fragile circumstances, a good result can also be, for example, that things do not get worse. In addition to climate change, conflicts have increased and become more complex, perhaps the biggest challenge to achieving the SDGs. We therefore need peace work and humanitarian funding as well as strong climate finance. Mr President! The global challenge is also the growing age groups of young people in developing countries. For example, in the fight against female genital mutilation, the percentage of girls mutilated has been reduced, but the number of girls mutilated numerically has increased. So we need to be able to increase globally
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u176	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to thank the Minister for Estonia for bringing us this report and getting it done. In that sense, it is a very positive and constructive document, because a little as the late author Hans Rosling shows in his book, so development cooperation and politics can change the world, which perhaps too often has been called into question recently. The results are huge, but it does mean, as the report says, that it requires long-term and concentration and, of course, a certain amount of resources. In that sense, the report honestly also tells us that the cuts in 2016 have seriously weakened the results, particularly in certain multilateral support, multilateral cooperation, cooperation between NGOs, and in the sense that human resources have been reduced both on the public side and in NGOs, which, of course, is a rather unfortunate thing because it affects many, many years ahead. Now is a good time, although, of course, it would have liked this to have happened sooner, to commit ourselves to once again increasing development funds. I think there is a good reason for us at the moment to ask whether the cuts and the trend in funding have in fact completely undermined our results, and in that sense we must quickly make adjustments. At the moment we are only 11th in the EU countries at this level of development cooperation, and the Swedish level is more than five times higher than Finland, so I hope that this will be a good start.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u177	Mr. Speaker! This results report is welcome, and in a convincing way it tells us that Finnish organisations and individuals are able to conduct development cooperation in a productive way. But what is sad about this, of course, is that, along with the emphasis on quality, the quantity has been cut. This means that if we had not gone into such a 40% cut at the beginning of this term of government, we would have to show 40% more results and in fact we would have even more results, because it must also be remembered that these cuts put many NGO projects in great difficulty and thus weakened their quality. Now that it is fashionable to emphasise the need for development cooperation, particularly support for Africa, to have an impact on refugees and migration to Europe too, I think it would be all right if this insight were understood and, in particular, by those who are most responsible for this major operation and who are now talking about the need to help people where they start. Here too, of course, we must remember that this migration will continue, and may even accelerate as the development takes off. Above all, there is also a need for investment in fragile states and conflict prevention. It is a human, humanitarian issue in which a great deal needs to be done. And finally, when we in the world today have to defend a multilateral rule-based cooperation system against the crumbling attempts from all over the world, it would also be important for this to be reflected in development cooperation. It is good that countries such as Finland work together on their own, but Finland and the Nordic countries have an important role to play in multilateral cooperation and strengthening these systems, and the cuts have certainly not helped.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u178	And after this round, let's move on to the one-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u179	Mr President! Development budgets have not been one of the most glorious magazines of the governments of recent years. On the contrary, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has had to stress for at least ten years the need for a turning point and for more development cooperation funds. Well, now I am a little more optimistic about this situation because Minister Estonian has clearly taken this issue on his programme, and this report is a good example of it. This really is a place for change. We are about halfway through the rest of the Nordic countries, which have already achieved this 0.7 GDP target. This is indeed important for many reasons. I will not go into all the details, but it is indeed necessary for both the European Union and the nation states to have development cooperation that creates the conditions for living, particularly in the Sahel region and in the sub-Africa. A bit diabolical about this, of course, because the better things are going in Finland, the smaller this percentage is. If things are going badly in the country, these millions will give you a higher percentage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u180	Mr President! It is good that Parliament has made this report accessible and debated. It clearly shows that Finland's development cooperation has achieved good results, but, as many colleagues have already said, these results have been weakened by the drastic cuts in appropriations. After all, this government has made the biggest proportional cuts in the budget for development cooperation and nature conservation. The Minister stressed the climate in his speech. During the previous government, we had a policy of directing emissions trading auction revenues to control and adapt to climate change. This has been abandoned, but this should come back to us, especially as auction revenues for emissions trading are increasing now that the price of CO2 per tonne on the emissions market is increasing. In addition to funding climate change mitigation, Finland should also remember our obligation to finance climate change adaptation in developing countries, which are the least affected by climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u181	Mr President! The results report on development policy was interesting to read. Long-term and prioritisation are key words in these encouraging results that the report highlights. The world may not be ready with these measures, but it will be better. The report also raises a few questions to the Minister: When climate change is one of the things that drives people, has the planting of trees, for example, in African countries, already been considered at the level of policy planning? And would the Minister feel alien to the idea that there could be a systematic increase in development education in schools that would help a young person to become a humane world citizen?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u182	Mr President! Thank you for the result report and for this debate. One of the root causes of poverty is population growth, and it is good that the status of women, the status of children, literacy, reproductive health, issues in this direction, are strongly reflected in Finland's development policy, because they are the means to influence that too. It is precisely education and the position of women there that are rising. As far as Africa is concerned, by the end of the century, the UN estimates that we will only have 3.5 billion more Africans in population growth than we are now, which is equivalent to 600 of Finland's population and, against that background, everyone will understand that if population growth is not controlled, the result will be poor. The Minister spoke of values, and this report also speaks of values in Finland. I ask: if the country of destination does not commit to commonly agreed values, can the aid be reconsidered? I am referring here to the President of Tanzania,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u183	Mr President! Minister Estonian, you said that better means are needed to support fragile countries, and I wish you much strength in this important task, namely that your place has not been easy when the government cut more than one third of the development funds at the beginning of its term and the work of many important NGOs has been paralysed. According to the report, too, long-term development cooperation is really essential, and we now need a programme and a timetable on how we can raise development funding to 0.7% of GDP. Improving the position of women and girls is an important priority, but these vulnerable groups have also suffered massive cuts. I would like to highlight the position of people with disabilities, because it is very important for them to have access to education, and nutrition and hygiene in refugee camps are key issues. The fight against climate change and adaptation were well highlighted in your speech. Now you could control emissions trading revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u184	Mr President! There is a great deal of public support for development cooperation. According to recent surveys, approximately 80 per cent of Finns consider development cooperation important or very important. Thank you for this report and for bringing it to Parliament. After all, the report shows that the results of development cooperation are in part very concrete: more children go to secondary school, more women get contraception, more people who need food help. Volunteering by thousands of people across the country is also valuable. There is concern, however, that the funding of NGOs has decreased significantly during this government term. The work of NGOs, among other things, contributes well to the position of women, and the recent evaluation of equality work by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also supports this conclusion and calls for further resources for the development cooperation of NGOs. I therefore ask whether you are going to undertake additional resources for NGOs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u185	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for having this important report before us today. At the same time, it is easy to agree with the amazement that has been raised here in the speeches of certain representatives about how lightly this is passing massive cuts in the development funds that the government made at the beginning of its term. It is extremely good that Finland has now made women and girls the most important priority of its development policy. However, as a result of these massive cuts, funding for the rights of girls and women has also fallen by as much as 44%, or almost half. If there is a genuine desire to improve the position of girls and women, then this is something that has to be reflected not only in the papers, but also in the speeches, but also in the real money that is being directed to this work. That is why we need a plan for achieving the 0.7% target over the next two governments. We have to get going so that the cuts made this season are cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u186	At this stage of the debate, I will give a minute's answer to the representatives of Paloniemi, Haavisto, Biaudet and Sarkkinen, and then to the Minister, if he so wishes, for example, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u187	Mr President! The results require maintaining the line and increasing resources where good results have been achieved. That is clear. In addition to country programmes and partnerships, this should include the results of NGOs. At the same time, a wide range of considerations must be used, particularly in fragile areas and in human rights work, where the results are really behind hard work. The final conclusion of the report is very valuable. It sums up very well the idea of so-called consistency. Sustainable development objectives should be promoted more strongly in all Finnish activities and policies, not just through development policy and development cooperation. This is an important conclusion which should definitely be taken into account in the various policy areas' plans much more closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u188	Mr Hakkarainen and Mr Satonen came to the list I have just read. Since they have not yet spoken, I will also admit them, and then it is the minister's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u189	Mr President! When you look at the strengths of Finland specifically on the NGO side, I think that the representatives Paloniemi and Karimäki put forward the unique work we have done in promoting the rights of people with disabilities. Our former colleague Kalle Könkkölä, who was sitting here in the back of the hall at the time, dedicated his life's work to this very promotion of the rights of people with disabilities, both to the promotion of the rights of children with disabilities and to the promotion of the rights of all people with disabilities. It is a unique piece of work in which Finland could show the model. It also tells a lot about our own view of the human race and tells us positively about it. With regard to the environment, the Minister has already mentioned the important work of WWF and Seed and their work. I would have taken the work of human rights, the work of the KIOS Foundation, and also the work of Demo Finland, the joint democracy body of the parties, which has since been able to support democratic processes in many countries. I also think that even better Finnish strengths can be developed from these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u190	Mr President! I find it interesting that the report says that the best results will be achieved when such funding is collated into a single political dialogue, for example when national education and training systems are being built. We have succeeded best when, through these projects, we have sought to promote equality, inclusion and non-discrimination. My question is this: although this raising of the financial burden is a real priority, before we are there in 0.7, would it be appropriate to change this focus so that we can better pursue these very things which, in my opinion, cannot be done in the same way in these financial investments? If we look at democracy or the situation of conflicts, the situation has deteriorated in the last ten years and in the case of human rights defenders. We would need this kind of democracy and this kind of building of a basic society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u191	Mr President! The report tells us that development policy needs a long-term approach, and I hope that we will all be aware of it in this Chamber and remember it in the next Government Programme negotiations. Mr President! Women and girls are the focus of Finland’s development policy. However, funding for the priority has been drastically reduced and it is problematic that the priorities adopted by Parliament do not have a direct impact on funding. This coherence of priorities and funding needs to be improved. Mr President! Sexual rights have also been put at the heart of Finland's development policy, and that is right, as the right to decide on one's own body and life is central to human rights and the realisation of sexual rights is also linked to economic development and population growth. However, funding for this priority has also been cut. Sexual rights are now being called into question from many quarters at the mouth of right-wing populists and conservatives, and the funding of sexual rights has also been cut globally. Now we need funding from Finland and political support from Finland, because who is responsible for sexual rights
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u192	Mr President! That's some pretty stuff in here about development aid. But another point of view: The Foreign Affairs Counsellor, the retired Ambassador Matti Kääriäinen, has written the book The Curse of Development Assistance. He has been in development cooperation for 40 years and says that 1% of this aid will come to light. I will read a short section on it: ‘Development assistance to poor countries has not led to the objectives that were originally set. Extreme poverty is disappearing, mainly in countries that have not received development aid — although official propaganda claims otherwise. In many countries development aid supports the local elite, not democratisation. To top it all, the developing countries almost ten times as much development aid escapes capital.” Has this gentleman written a lie or something?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u193	Mr President! Mr Biaudet raised the issue of the role of human rights defenders in different countries. I am sure it will also include the role of journalists, and I must say that this development has been quite worrying in recent times. This has, of course, been worrying, even in some countries that are no longer in the area of development aid, but precisely in these developing countries. I agree with the view that, before democracy and good governance work, it is difficult to make any further progress. It is particularly appropriate now to hope that we will be able to make progress in the Middle East on the one hand and in Africa — and, of course, everywhere else, but above all in these regions — on the other, because it will also have a direct impact on the situation in Europe. And as I understand it, the situation in Europe has now become quite clear that the future of Africa is quite a fate for Europe as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u194	And just as scheduled for the minister now for three minutes. Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u195	Mr President! Thank you all for these valuable contributions. It seems that we all in this Chamber are concerned about the cuts that have been made during this parliamentary term, but I also feel that there is clearly a future-oriented expectation that if one day we could actually get to that 0.7. With regard to these cuts, I would like to comment on the fact that they have been mentioned in several points in this report, and in that sense I would like to remind you that we really understand that this is a long-term job and, if one is cut, it will have a very long-term impact on the future, such as the representatives of Haavisto and the judgments in their speeches. Equality: for the first time a priority, even though it has been a cross-cutting theme for a long time. It is exactly as Mr Pelkonen said that half the potential will be wasted if girls and women are not involved. There were concerns about population growth and the role of women and girls in general. The US veto on SRHR was used to cut sexual and reproductive health, but Finland, with many others of the same mind, was able to generate additional funding for this. Mr Haavisto's concern about 0.2 and fragile countries: it is a concern for all of us, and especially when we are aware that there is an environment in which the NGO may even have a better chance of achieving results than the big players. Climate change: that concern came from many directions, and it has clearly been shown here that we may not have quite got the input-output ratio right, so we have to keep it going. Mr Sarkkinen has rightly pointed out that there is also a lot of results that cannot be numerically achieved. And that is why this report has sought to highlight these examples. And thank you, Mr Biaudet, this will hopefully serve as a starting point when those who are negotiating the next government programme are building that path for Finland's development policy. For planting trees: we have years of good experience in forestry in different developing countries. Similarly, your question relating to schools: global education is very important, it is part of the curriculum and, in fact, there is an open search for it if NGOs want to do it. Here's just some of your questions, some of your comments. We'll pick it up when the next moment comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u196	The Minister, in my ears too, did not answer a few more questions, and I will give him the opportunity to answer those questions at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u197	Mr President! There have been excellent speeches on the importance and focus of improving the position of women and girls and on sexual and reproductive health work in Finland's development cooperation. However, as Mr Sarkkinen said, the unfortunate fact is that, in monetary terms, this funding has been drastically reduced. For example, for UNFPA, Finland's funding amounted to EUR 45 million in 2014, only EUR 17.5 million last year. However, there are over 200 million women in the world who do not have modern contraception even if they want to. It is estimated that at least 89 million of the world’s pregnancies are unplanned every year. In other words, by improving this work, we can also reduce the pressure on the environment that comes from the number of people and population growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u198	Mr President! This has been an excellent and largely one-sided debate. Could you say that we know what to do? Then the question remains as to whether we are prepared to do what should be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u199	Mr President! This report highlights human rights, democracy, good governance, anti-corruption work, the multi-party system — ideas in this direction. They are the ideas that relate to this Finnish value base and the Western value base. Of course, democracy is not an export product in the sense that it can be planted in some soil and say that you do so when we too have done so. But perhaps we can agree that democracy in general is the best and most effective form of government, with a generally acceptable long-term perspective. At one time, it may not be the best way to do it. You have to give me time to adjust. What paid some attention is that this report does not deal directly with free communication, freedom of expression, the role of the journalist, perhaps not at all. Of course they're part of democracy, but maybe you'd still want to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u200	Mr President! In this debate, I too was a little puzzled by the fact that development aid has, however, been provided for decades after billions by Finland and many other Western countries, so that now there is so much of that development that there is no longer any need for development aid, that is, the country can cope with its own aid. I guess that's what we're all trying to do. So what's the responsibility? Has a country that is on development aid ever, at some point, risen to its own feet so that it is no longer needed? You may say that drilling a well may be necessary, that there is drinking water, but you should not start carrying water into that well. Is there any concrete examples of success in countries that, as a result of development aid, may have reached a situation where they are able to provide development aid to others? Isn't that the goal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u201	Mr President! There was not much time to say in that one-minute speech, but I would like to add another aspect to this. It is that we always talk about the need to create business in it, that is, industrial and other, or agriculture. It has now become apparent in many places that, if the original nature, forest or an area with rare animals has been protected in a developing country, it has become more a source of income in a long run than it is in the case of ecologically cutting or destroying that area. This is one possibility that Finland can also encourage such ecological and rational environmental protection, which, in the long term, will give a better result to these inhabitants of its territory than to destroy its territory.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u202	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the fact that you particularly raised the issue of climate change in your answer, because this performance report clearly highlights the fact that climate finance in particular has fallen particularly much in connection with these cuts in development funds. At the same time, however, the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris climate agreements would require more funding from developed countries to combat climate change. In fact, Mr Hassi has already pointed out that emissions trading is gradually starting to work better and, as a result, emissions auction revenues are increasing, so I would ask the Minister: would it be a good place to direct these growing emissions auction revenues to climate finance in development cooperation and set such a good example for the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u203	Mr President! I have learned one sentence that you love your neighbor as yourself, and yes, this means that we are here in Finland, people who have daily food, but there are still over 700 million people in the world today who are suffering from poverty, which means that we have to put our money into action. Similarly, when humanitarian aid is needed when disasters occur, then we must also show propensity. It has also been said here in the report that women in Kenya, Nepal and Tanzania in particular have been trained, for example, to become candidates, and then these officials and even parties have been trained for gender equality. That's one good thing. Finland's starting point is that women must be involved in all negotiations on peace and security. Let's hope our women are in the developing world, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u204	One more response, Mr Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u205	Mr President! First of all, when Mr Mäkelä asked me if there were any results, so that development cooperation would no longer be needed, I think of Asia, for example, Vietnam, which has had huge economic growth, from African countries to Namibia and so on. There's some of these. And here in Europe, of course, we have had a huge need for humanitarian aid for the countries of the Western Balkans during the war of Yugoslavia, the Kosovo crisis. Helping Kosovo's refugees is a rather honourable example of us reacting in time, and they are now living in a state of peace. There are many good examples of humanitarian aid. But I did get up again, in fact, to bring up this UN perspective. In the current political situation, the United Nations is also in considerable difficulties. The UN Development Organisation and also the UNRWA and others are in financial difficulties. It would be very important that support for the UN in Finnish politics, channelling funds also through the UN and bringing new ideas to the UN, whether disabled people, women, the environment in our strengths, should also play a role.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u206	Mr President! A group on the rights and development of girls has now been set up within the Parliament's Population and Development Group in the autumn, and we have tabled a written question with this group today in which we are dealing specifically with the rights of girls. I would like to take this opportunity because the Minister is here if we could have an answer to the written question, perhaps so verbally in advance. So, in a written question, we would like to hear the answer with the members of the group, among other things, how the government intends to ensure that the specific challenges and needs of girls are taken into account in development policy and development programmes, that girls should not be mentioned as a seemingly personal group alongside the promotion of women. After all, the problems of girls and women are often common, but the solutions are not always the same. There is a huge amount of discrimination against girls because of their age alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u207	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Mr Biaudet, Mr Paloniemi, Mr Hakkarainen and Mr Sarkkinen and then to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u208	Mr President! I would like to raise the issue of EU development cooperation to this debate, because if you think of the EU countries together, we would have the opportunity to be very strong promoters of development, and I am a little concerned because the EU is, in a way, focusing so much on its own situation. When we talk about the refugee situation, for example, we have now opened up the possibilities of financing, in a way, with development cooperation funds, for example, the improvement of border management, which in itself may be a good target, but which may not necessarily be the root cause or the objective of development cooperation. Is there something on the horizon that you are actually having a better debate on how, for example, these development cooperation funds could be directed more strongly, precisely in line with our report and the objectives of Finland, to targets that actually promote development and prevent reluctant immigration?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u209	Mr President! A large part of Africa is still not electrified. I've seen the kids try to do their homework in Kibera slums, huge slums, which I'm sure many other people have visited. It's a touching experience. Kerosin is so dangerous that it currently kills more than malaria. Among other things, therefore, we certainly need these projects which create renewable energy and electricity in general in Africa. The Turkana wind farm in Kenya is an excellent example of international funding and that, apart from the fact that the windmills in the world's windiest region are spinning, it has also built schools in the region and roads in the ignorant areas and so on, that is to say, the whole infrara in addition to energy. If we do not understand this, we need the help of Finnfund and other development funders for such projects,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u210	Mr President! Personally, I am in favour of linking development aid to results. The main objective would be to curb population growth. Development aid could be accompanied by a stick and carrot: aid would fall if the average birth rate of the State or region concerned were to increase or remain unchanged and would increase accordingly if the birth rate were to decrease. African women give birth to a considerable number of children. In Africa, an average of 4.7 children are born per woman. The world’s largest average number of children is Nigeria: 7.63 children per woman. There's a 6.35 in Somalia. These are Muslim countries, as far as I know, and there are normally four or five wives for men, and at the same time it would be good to intervene in women's rights to bring them up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u211	Mr President! The adequacy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' human resources is an essential issue for the functioning of development policy. It is difficult to do good and impressive work if there are no people and no factors, and then it has a negative impact on partners, such as organisations and others, if there are not enough people in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would now like to ask the Minister what will be the future human resources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's Development Policy Department, the resources both in Finland and in the target countries — they will no longer be ruined? On the contrary, there is a need for increase. Mr President! In fragile circumstances, development cooperation and humanitarian cooperation are intertwined, and I think it would be important not only for humanitarian work to respond to acute needs but also to take into account the priorities of our development policy, such as sexual rights and women's rights, because being able to produce safely is not a secondary need in humanitarian conditions, but is a matter of life and death.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u212	Minister, let's say three minutes, maybe.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u213	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the ones I missed the last time. When Mr Kiuru asked about values and commitment, what is essential in all development cooperation projects is that it is committed to ownership, and in some cases it may be that values do not meet, and then there may be no results, so there is no justification for continuing such projects. Here, a number of speakers raised the issue of the status of people with disabilities. It has been very important to us and, in fact, it came from the initiative of Finland that the international agenda in humanitarian crises raised the disabled. Demo Finland's work was mentioned in a few speeches. It is very important that political participation is strengthened, and especially that of women. Congressman Hakkarainen, you asked about this book. The result report tells us that the claim of 1% of arrival is completely wrong. It has 108 pages of hard stuff from 2015 to 2018. Take a look at it, and then you'll know what you're talking about. Your second comment on population growth: proven advice on sexual and reproductive health, access to prevention and education are an excellent tool together. Then — excuse me, now I don’t remember who mentioned it — about this UNFPA. It is Finland's largest beneficiary of assistance from UN organisations, EUR 20 million a year, and in fact tomorrow morning, together with them, the latest report will be published, and that is precisely the core of our development cooperation, what UNFPA is doing. Representative Mäkelä: Vietnam, Namibia has already been mentioned here as a good example of the fact that there is also responsibility for results. Congressman Kari, you asked about the emissions trading revenue. I am happy to answer as I did in the old saying: does it matter what color a cat is when it asks for a mouse, or does it matter whether it is earmarked for emissions trading or whether it is budget money? The most important thing is that we build a long-term, sustainable path to getting to 0.7. Then there was Mr Pelkonen. Girls, the whole life cycle from girl to woman, our priority number one, of course, will be taken into account. Mr Biaudet: the EU and development cooperation — it is now seeking better coordination, and in fact we have, if I remember correctly, on Monday 26 November. The meeting of development ministers in Brussels, and when it was on the agenda at least at the last meeting, I assume that it will continue. Mr Paloniemi, it is excellent that you reminded Finnfundi of the Turkana wind farm. A million people receive electricity and all the harm caused by kerosene is reduced. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u214	In this debate, I will give answers to the representatives of Karimäki, Satonen and Halmemenpää, and then, for example, if the Minister wishes to say another word, that will be all right. There's a little bit of time limit left, not a lot, but a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u215	Mr President! I am concerned about climate change from the point of view that it really affects these fragile developing countries so strongly and that climate finance has decreased. It is precisely how we can help developing countries to combat climate change that is essential, but it is vital to adapt to climate change and, for example, to new farming techniques, drought, food security, clean water. Do you, Minister, have some ideas about what Finland could be in the context of the climate change adaptation project and how best to promote them?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u216	Mr President! Mr Haavisto has raised the issue of the role of the UN here, and I think that the Minister of Estonia has made an excellent contribution to this. On many occasions I have also been concerned about this same issue, mainly from the point of view that this multilateral world order is currently under threat at all, I am sure to say that. We know that the attitude of the United States during Trump has changed somewhat to finance these joint projects. China is a very active player in developing countries, but as far as my knowledge is correct, China is more than enough to find, as it were, commercially sound projects for itself. It does not feel that it is important to promote democracy, human rights or the role of children or women, but that it is a very interested actor. So it is very important that there is a common will in the world to take up these ambitious objectives as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u217	Mr President! The real concern is that climate change funding has sometimes fallen to an inappropriately low level, and it would certainly help if, for example, we were to redirect emissions auction revenues to climate finance for development cooperation, when there was not enough funding for the budget. And, of course, it does matter where those emissions trading revenues are at all directed. In particular, it is difficult to find private funding to combat climate change. According to the report, Finnish politicians should at the same time contribute both to the main objectives of development policy and to the objectives of sustainable development, and among other things, the inconsistency of current national policies with regard to fossil fuel subsidies has been identified. Have you, for example, thought about taking a position on the budget for the coming year in order to correct this inconsistency?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u218	My final reply, Mr Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u219	Mr President! It is good to remember that Finland has also received development aid, and now Finland is helping others. Mr President! EU development policy and EU financial flows are big money. It is very important that Finland contributes to the successful use of good targets, and I hope that we will focus in particular on climate change, equality and sexual rights, human rights and democracy. Of course there are many other important things, but I think that Finland is needed to talk about these very things. Mr President! The question was why there is still poverty and problems in the world, even though development cooperation has been going on for a long time. Well, these development funds are a small part of the world's cash flows and they are not enough. For example, we need to close tax havens, because developing countries will become more illegal capital flows north of here than there will be development cooperation money. In addition, we must support developing countries' own fiscal capacity, i.e. that they themselves can also use their own systems sustainably to finance their own services and needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u220	Minister, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u221	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you all for your valuable views. With a few more comments on the fight against climate change or perhaps, above all, adaptation to it, I would remind you that we have worked together in a long-term, successful way, both in agriculture and in the forestry sector. Much has been done to prevent erosion. With modern technologies, we can help with various meteorological solutions in water supply, food security. When Mr Satonen took up these UN challenges, Finland strongly supports Secretary-General Guterres and the entire UN reform. And Mr Halmemenpää, for private funding: I am confident that private funding will also apply to various sustainable development projects. We now have a good example of the World Bank IFC that can provide wind power to Africa. One thing: Last week I was allowed to attend a seminar with Bill Gates, and he told me that his foundation and Mrs. Melinda Gates had three important tasks. In my opinion, they are similar to what we have here between the lines of the results reports and the lines. The first was that ‘endpoverty’, ‘saveves’and ‘tackleclimatechnologyange’, i.e.remove poverty, save human lives and combat climate change. - Thank you!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u222	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u223	Mr President! I have already had enough time in previous replies to the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u224	Mr President! I personally believe that instead of continuing increases in the alcohol tax, the alcohol tax should be reduced moderately, but at least I do not have enough support for this idea yet. On the other hand, several Members believe that VAT on alcohol should be reduced, and I understand that there has also been greater support for the possibility that, if the tax on alcohol is increased, this reduction in VAT on alcohol might then be seriously considered, but this has not yet been achieved in this context. After all, the profitability of the restaurant sector has been weak for quite a long time. According to a recent report published today by the Natural Resources Agency, lowering the VAT on alcoholic beverages would stimulate restaurant sales considerably and, at the same time, increase consumption of domestic products and services by around EUR 172 million. I am sure that we will not be able to have a greater debate on this subject today, but if there had been someone there who could have answered what happened to the idea of reducing VAT on alcoholic beverages in this context at a time when the taxation of alcohol would otherwise have been increased, I would have liked to have heard the answer. — And I do not know, perhaps a representative present can answer this question?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u225	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 11/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u226	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection unanimously calls for the adoption of the Government's proposal with some technical amendments. The main point of this government proposal is that certain environmental permit issues are transferred from the authorisation procedure to the notification procedure. The largest group of authorisations to which this applies are animal shelters, and the number of others is then quite small. It includes activities in the food and feed industry, limited chemical stocks, small shooting ranges, sawmills, pits and small-scale gold mining. As such, the fact that the authorisation to initiate certain cases is transferred from the actual authorisation procedure to the notification procedure may perhaps reduce red tape a little less than one might imagine, since the authorities must, in substance, comply with the legislation which is also in the authorisation procedure and also the same procedures for requesting opinions. The procedure may be accelerated by the fact that in the notification procedure a minor notification may be served in a way other than the notification and, where no further information has been requested by the authority, the operator would be entitled to start operations 120 days after the notification has been lodged. Perhaps there is a certain possibility of misunderstanding that the list of things moving into this streamlined procedure also includes small - scale gold mining. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection stresses, however, that it is not possible to launch even a small-scale mechanical gold mining project on state-owned land, where all projects require authorisation under the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u227	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 12/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u228	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also proposes a number of technical changes to this government proposal. This is how the requirements of the new EU capping directive are implemented nationally in Finland. It is likely that emissions and emissions caps will come to people's minds today primarily because of climate change. However, this legislation and the EU Emission Ceiling Directive are not about them; they are about emissions that pollute our breathing air, which reduce the quality of breathing air, such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, ammonia and particulate matter. From the point of view of our health, it is important. Some 400,000 people per year are still estimated to die prematurely due to air pollution in Europe, and, of course, an even greater number of people are affected by the adverse effect on health and, among other things, the loss of working days. Finland is one of the cleanest countries in the world. For example, the low particle concentration in Finland is the lowest in the country, i.e. in that sense Finland has the world's cleanest air. Yet it has been estimated in Finland too that in 2013, some 1,600 premature deaths have been caused by air pollution. In Finland, this directive does not in fact require any new emission restrictions, as the existing restrictions already comply with the requirements of the new EU directive. Finland's special issue is the small-scale burning of wood and its emissions. The Committee stresses that guarantees and such secondary sources of heat continue to be, continue to be necessary and that emissions should primarily be reduced by the development of combustion technology and by the fact that new fireplaces would be better than in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u229	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate and discussion were suspended at the plenary session on 9 November 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-11-13-ps-113.u230	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented on the 22nd item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 25/2018 vp, the decision will be taken at the sole reading of the Additional Protocol and then at the second reading of the legislative proposal.
