ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 28/2018 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 20 December 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u2	Finally, the motion of censure will be decided. The following proposals have been put forward in the discussion of the draft budget for a motion of censure to the Government: Timo Harakka sd Eeva-Johanna Eloranna sd: "The Committee notes that the excessiveness of the government's economic policy choices is highlighted in a good economic situation. They increase inequality and reduce trust in society. Policy neglects future economic and employment growth. Reforms to strengthen employment and skills in the future will not be completed. Growth must belong to everyone. Parliament therefore calls for the Government to immediately bring to Parliament new corrective measures to promote a fair distribution of growth, reduce inequalities and strengthen economic growth and employment in the long term. Parliament believes that the government has failed and does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament." Pekka Haavisto green Krista Mikkonen green: "The international scientific community calls for a more ambitious climate policy for everyone, but the Finnish Government does not respond to this cry. The government is unable to secure our sinks, drive down fossil subsidies and reform our economy. The success of the future — and of today’s too — is also hampered by massive cuts in education, which undermine the quality of skills and reduce equality in education. Equality is also further undermined by ongoing cuts in social security, which deepen inequality. Development cooperation and nature conservation also need better resources in order to build a better future for both Finland and the world. As a result, Parliament states that the Government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament." Kari Uotila vas Li Andersson's opposition: "The government has weakened the Finnish knowledge base and the prerequisites for future success with its short-sighted cuts, has increased the inequality of Finns, has stalled in controlling climate change, has shirked its global responsibility, has ignored expert knowledge, has tied itself to the leadership of interest groups, and has shown inadequacy in thorough political preparation. Parliament considers that the government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament." With the support of Thomas Blomqvist r Anna-Maja Henriksson r: "The Committee notes that the government's policy has been short-sighted. Despite the improved economic and employment situation, the government has not eliminated cuts in development aid and education. Education cuts represent a real threat to the quality of education and research, to equality in education and to the competitiveness of our country. The government has not been prepared to reform family-free and early childhood education, although there has been an undeniable need for it. The government's efforts to improve employment have been inadequate and the necessary structural reforms have not been completed. In the absence of major reforms during this regime, the government would have been more determined to improve the situation of the vulnerable. Tax reductions and current transfers have not been sufficient. As a result, Parliament states that the Government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament." With the support of Peter Östman kd Antero Laukkasen kd: "The Committee notes that the government has targeted its austerity measures on families with children and the elderly during the Government's term of office. As a result of government action, social inequality has increased and the situation of the most vulnerable has become more difficult. At the same time, the government has failed to implement the most important individual reform, the social reform. As a result, Parliament states that the government has failed and does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament." Sami Savio ps Worked in support of Kankaanniemi ps: "The Finnish Parliament notes that the government has neither wanted nor been able to implement immigration and asylum policies that guarantee the physical and mental integrity of Finnish children and adults. Furthermore, because the government has not implemented its asylum programme, it does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament."
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u3	Mr Östman's proposal is put to the vote against Mr Blomqvist's proposal, then against Mr Uotila's proposal, and against Mr Haavisto's proposal, which has won this vote, and then against Mr Savio's proposal, and then against Mr Haraka's proposal. Finally, we will vote on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u4	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 20 December 2018. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of Section 33.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u5	Anneli Kiljunen's proposal 87, Kari Uotila's proposal 88 and Thomas Blomqvist's proposal 89 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 89 proposals, then against 87 votes against, and finally against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u6	Presentation of Title 11 taxes and parafiscal income. In accordance with the procedure, a general discussion shall not be allowed. Let's get down to the detail of the department.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u7	Emma Karin's proposal 67 and Kari Uotila's proposal 68 have the same meaning, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u8	Presentation of Title 12 on miscellaneous revenue Let's get down to the detail of the department.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u9	Presentation of Title 13 on interest income, share sales income and profit gains Let's get down to the detail of the department.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u10	Emma Karin's proposal 3 and Kari Uotila's proposal 4 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u11	Introduce general arguments. In accordance with the procedure, a general discussion shall not be allowed. A detailed examination of the general arguments will be undertaken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-21-ps-136.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for this year. On behalf of all the Presidents, thank you very much for your good cooperation. This year has been a full - time year, and we are also looking forward to a full - time year. I very much hope that you will be able to rest for this Christmas, because the next stage when you come here in the spring will be even more urgent, as we all know. I know you've been really busy lately, and I'm sure you're still thinking about those Christmas gifts. It is also worth relying on the researched information. During this autumn, a great deal of value research has been carried out on what is sacred to humans. On the basis of these studies, one can conclude that love, humanity, and security are important things for humans. You can also draw from them the Christmas gifts that are not yet purchased — perhaps they are the best Christmas gifts. Thank you also to our wonderful, wonderful, professional officials and assistants. But above all for all of you who are now listening to this: a wonderful Christmas, a safe year 2019. - Thank you.
