ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of one hour is reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the fourth item.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u2	Mr President! The Government has therefore submitted to Parliament a proposal for legislation on the Court of Justice. According to the proposal, a judicial office would be established in Finland to carry out the central administrative functions of the judiciary. These days, they're in the Department of Justice. Separating the central administration from the ministry and delegating tasks to an independent judicial office would highlight the structural independence of the courts from the political ministry and contribute to the efficient and effective performance of the administrative functions of the courts. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice could focus more effectively and strongly on its Government-level tasks, i.e. the strategic direction of the judiciary and the preparation of legislation. The judiciary is the cornerstone of the rule of law. The proposed judicial agency would ensure the operating conditions of the judiciary as well as the development, planning and support of the functioning of the courts. Among other things, the Agency would be responsible for managing the results of courts and organising the training of court staff. The establishment of an agency would enable the Agency to concentrate the administrative tasks currently carried out by the courts if it so decides in due course. Mr President! The establishment of a judicial office should increase the costs of central administration of courts somewhat. The Agency’s annual operational expenditure would be around EUR 4 million. The Government’s objective is that the investment would lead to an improvement in the quality of legal protection and an improvement in the efficiency of the courts. Mr President! Finally, I would like to emphasise that the central administrative functions of the judiciary must be organised in a world-leading state such as Finland, which contributes to the structural independence of the courts, and in such a way that independence is clearly visible to anyone from outside. The establishment of a judicial office strengthens this very situation. The aim is for the amendments to the law to enter into force and for the Court of Justice to become operational from the beginning of 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u3	Do we want to be debated here at first, whether there is any interest, or do we want to speak directly? — Then let us go straight to the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u4	Mr President! I am personally very interested in reforming the courts. I have also worked in the courts myself — the District Court, the Court of Appeal and the Insurance Court — and I am familiar with these matters, and there are still many people in the circle with whom I go through these matters on a daily basis. First of all, I would like to point out that: The Judiciary Federation is delighted at the announcement in September that the Court of Justice Office will come, and there is apparently a broad consensus in this House as well. The Judiciary Federation was concerned about where this agency will be located, and apparently it is now Vantaa — apparently an agreement has now been reached. Internationally, it has been studied that it is good that it is close to good transport connections. I think it's a good place. Helsinki is already very congested, which means that transport connections here would be difficult. Then, on the other hand, I looked at a press release from the Ministry of Justice stating that a stronger firewall will be built between politicians and courts at the Court Office — this is a quote from Minister Häkkänen’s website. Of course, it is important for the courts to act independently, but perhaps I had to wonder now whether the minister felt that there was some inappropriate influence which now needed to be protected. I'm sure the Minister will tell you here when he gets to the talk himself, what he means. In any case, it is also up to us as parliamentarians to legislate and thereby, of course, to influence the practice of the courts — not, of course, the pending case, but the future — and it is important to have a social debate. For example, there has been a great deal of discussion about the sexual exploitation of minors, and the only way to make the penalties tougher is at present that there is already a well-established interpretation of the fact that the minimum penalties are being raised, and that is the role of the legislator. It is somewhat unclear what this firewall here means that there are now some alarm signals in the ministry. Perhaps this is also the subject of the fact that I looked at Articles 5 to 8 of the draft law on the management of the Court of Justice. The Executive Board and the Executive Director are responsible there, and this Executive Board, which, however, does not interfere with individual decisions or the content of individual decisions, cannot elect a district judge — even if he is a district judge or a member of a judicial body — who is, for example, a member of the municipal council or the municipal board. Perhaps I wonder that when the Constitution guarantees freedom of association and guarantees equality before the law, what this kind of obstacle is that if you are an active social participant and you are a member of the municipal council, then if you work for your profession at the district court and otherwise get into this board of directors, then is this the idea that a person who is involved in politics should not then be involved in this type of thing that he is immediately suspicious? To this I also wish the Minister an answer as to why this kind of addition is. I understand that a Member of Parliament cannot be there, but when a Member of Parliament is working here on a day, he could not be working at the district court at the same time anyway. That's when you automatically get a leave of absence under the law. One more thing I would like to hear from the Minister: Here there is a constant increase in the number of courts, and this was already the subject of the referral debate last week, at least I myself raised concerns about the number of judges. Here I considered that between 2017 and 2019, the trend is currently slightly declining in human years, the number of cases is increasing, things are becoming more difficult, even the sick absences of the sentencing staff are increasing, and there have also been studies of the ability of judges to cope. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how this is to be promoted. There have been good projects: more resources have been invested in the police, the role of prosecutors has been considered, and at the moment there is also a law on prosecutors here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u5	Now there were requests for a few debatable remarks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u6	Madam President! Mr Meri rightly drew attention to the congestion of the courts and, as a result, to the length of cases, from which we have even received towels from the European Court of Human Rights. The solution for Mr Sea is that more judges should be appointed, and I am sure it will be necessary, but I personally feel that even more important is the development of processes in such a way that not all petty cases will be fought to the end. Reconciliation, leave matters to the penal procedure and so on. And, as Mr Meri also pointed out, there is now a reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Administrative Court in this House, which aims to streamline the processes. So I would ask the Minister of Justice about this streamlining of processes, so that legal certainty can be obtained, but there would be no conflict for years: what progress has been made in these efforts to streamline processes?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u7	Mr President! Here we have the location of this court office. We had a long debate on this. Of course, quite a few cities with legal education and other extensive legal knowledge would have liked to have seen this agency located elsewhere than here in the capital region. They've already told me there's a lot of traffic around here. And then, of course, the other thing is that when we talk about regionalisation, the best results have been obtained with the regionalisation of new agencies. This would have been an excellent opportunity to pursue a sensible and operational regional policy. I ask why this was not done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u8	Madam President! I agree with Mrs Myller on the question of this seat of the Court of Justice. It must be said that this is an important question for the people of Eastern Finland, and it is also important as to what kind of policy the government is taking with regard to regional policy. In Joensuu, the Faculty of Law operates, and efforts have been made to get students in the field. In view of the fact that the closure of both the Iisalme and the Varkaus District Courts in that area, in particular in the reform of the District Court, was painful, the expectation that this court office could be located in that area is at present quite high. I would also have liked to ask the Minister about this, since this Vantaa has now been on the table in these discussions, why did I do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u9	Mr President! This establishment of a judicial office is a good thing, and, for example, there was a lot of positive push in the Committee on Legal Affairs that this should happen, and it is a great thing that the Ministry of Justice and the Government have come to this conclusion. But, as was said above, I too would have expected the government and the Ministry of Justice to have taken the opportunity to carry out this regionalisation on a practical level. According to my information, this issue was not dealt with by the Regional Coordination Group — I do not know whether this is true — which, according to the rules of the game, is the place where a slightly larger team is then viewed, which is the best solution for its agency. Yes, good targets would have been found in Northern and Eastern Finland that would have met these criteria. Unfortunately, this supports a policy of concentration in the wrong direction, but every minister should be concerned about it when, in a certain way, it is in line with the government's line that the whole country should be developed and operated.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u10	Madam President! This court office has indeed been supported and was also on the agenda during the reform of the district court when it was wondered why we were going to cut down on district courts before this step was taken. On the other hand, the Committee on Legal Affairs should carefully examine these articles and also consider whether the solutions chosen are the right ones to best safeguard the independence of the courts. Minister of Justice Häkkänen has indeed made this decision that the agency should be located in Vantaa. It seems to me to be a sensible and balanced solution, even on the basis of transport connections, and even taking into account domestic languages and language issues is a good argument that this agency is in Vantaa. I think this is a good decision, and I am also happy to hear the Minister's arguments on the location.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u11	Madam President! It would be easy for me to thank the minister for coming to Vantaa as a representative of Parliament and as an Espoan, but of course we have to look at the whole thing. The Blue Parliamentary Group is also in favour of régionalisation in itself and the fact that the state functions throughout the country. One of the places that emerges and where other functions have been put is of course Kuopio, where I myself have once lived. Of course, the most important thing here is that the Court of Justice works effectively and is also able to make decisions in an efficient and fair manner. When I understand that you have made an in-depth study of this question in the Ministry itself, I am happy to hear more from you as to why Vantaa was selected, what other options were available and why it was eventually decided on in Vantaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u12	However, it seems that everyone who has asked for a reply also has a real request to speak here. But are they different from what you want to go to this debate? — So let's go quickly then with these debatable remarks.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u13	Mr President! I believe that the establishment of a judicial office in Vantaa, the capital region, is justified because these offices must be set up where people are, and there are also the majority of cases, [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u14	Mr President! First of all, I must thank the Minister: The establishment of a judicial office is a very good decision. This was already the aim of the negotiations on the Government Programme, where it is not yet, but it is excellent that the decision has been taken. There have been criticisms of this location, and I think it is quite a subject. When we have the opportunity to invest and find other reasonable places to invest than the capital region, it would be worth taking the opportunity to do so. Here Mr Kauma said that a judicial office should be located where the people are and where these cases are, but perhaps it has misunderstood the role of the Court of Justice a little, because it will not deal with any cases as a court of law — no complaints, no criminal or civil cases, not to mention administrative cases — but rather its task is to develop and ensure the functioning of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u15	Madam President! In this debate, it has been pointed out that the regional coordination group has not dealt with the creation of this unit. However, on 29 June 2018, it discussed this establishment of a judicial office and has made a recommendation that the location of this office and the location of the establishment of this agency should be referred to the General Session of the Government. Apparently, Minister of Justice Häkkänen has concluded that it will not be taken to the Government for consideration by the whole government. Can you give us some justification for this solution? We have heard, if I may say so, from Members of Parliament in the constituency of Uusimaa that there are no people anywhere else and there is no life and sense except here in southern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u18	Mr President! This is now clearly such a regional opinion on this seat of the Court of Justice. This is what Mr Kauma needs to do now, because the Court of Justice would be responsible for the training of judges and other staff, so to speak, to become an independent agency here between politicians and others, and in that sense Vantaa is an excellent location.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u19	Madam President! I am also interested, like many other representatives in this Chamber, in the argument that why, Minister, you chose to present a court office in Vantaa rather than elsewhere. However, I do not believe that it can be said that the other locations involved in this comparison did not meet the criteria set for this seat of the Court of Justice and this office, but that this would appear to be a political decision that this has now been presented here in Vantaa. But it does not rule out the fact that there was another option that was equally good, and that is why these claims in the explanatory statement are in order. Another point raised by Mr Karimäki is that the Committee on Legal Affairs would have liked to resolve this together with the reform of the district court network. And we still have to ask the Minister: would you be prepared to consider maintaining very efficient, cost-effective, high-quality meeting places and offices, such as in Iisalmi, Raahe and Varkaus?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u20	Madam President! I'm beating the siltar drum here, too, but this time I'm drumming for Rovaniemi. I was thinking that this would have been the right direction for the Ministry of Justice to start thinking about where these trainings are. They don't just exist in one direction. Although I am from Espoo, I still see this as significant in regional policy. In particular, it would encourage the provinces to see and understand that there really is more to this Parliament than the policy of the big cities. Then I wonder that this creation of a judicial office will only come now, even though the reform of the district court was decided a moment ago. I would have asked the Attorney General two things: Why was it decided to invest this in Vantaa, why not somewhere else? And second of all, why was this order like this when they are so close together? Why First District Court Reform
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u21	Mr President! It is good to continue with Mr Laukkanen's speech. I would ask the Minister whether there is any particular reason why this court office should be located just in Vantaa. In these decisions, should we not primarily consider the interests of the state, the interests of the whole state, that is, Finland, where we all live? We also have very many experts elsewhere, we have good connections all over Finland, we are well known for that, we are connected both in traffic and elsewhere, in digital operations and all of these. In many other places, such as Rovaniemi, it is cheaper to live, there are more permanent staff, and there are also qualified experts. There is a faculty of law, so there are experts. I, too, have attended school, law school, and concluded that qualified personnel seem to be available as needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u22	I will give you five replies, then the Minister will answer. These are Kivelä, Hoskonen, Raatikainen, Jarva and Kulmala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u23	President! There are certainly many rational arguments for establishing a judicial office, but there are also critical voices that need to be taken seriously. It is said that the resources for setting up this agency, the operating costs, are then out of the actual judicial system. Throughout history, experiences with central agencies are not just positive. Of course, I personally believe that this will significantly increase the smoothness of judicial processes, the legal protection of citizens and, above all, the suspense of the judiciary, and it will be precisely that the judges are given additional and up-to-date training. I will also join, Minister of Justice, those who question this location.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u24	Madam President! Indeed, when new agencies are set up, there should be a genuine debate in this context, as has been the case in the public domain, but it should be at the highest political level, that this is precisely the opportunity to do the right policy that takes into account the whole of Finland. The claim that there are more people or fewer people somewhere: However, we have Finland as a whole, and now look at, for example, Finland's forest resources. Almost all forestry activities are concentrated here in Helsinki, but the forest reserves themselves are somewhere else. Again, this reality has not been taken into account. In this case, I would like the Minister of Justice to now take a spoon in his beautiful hand and take note of where law is taught. For example, Mrs Kurvinen spoke in her own speech about these localities. I see precisely that this is the opportunity to make a fair policy, and decentralisation in itself is wisdom and not a waste of resources. It's always wisdom, because concentration is the big risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u25	Madam President! I'm taking this opportunity and I'm not getting involved. Let's just place it where we're going to invest. This isn't the kind of thing that makes a beard so bad. There's talk of silhouette drums, but I'm not familiar with them. I'm taking advantage of this opportunity. It is great that the judiciary is being reformed, and I would like to ask the Minister for Justice whether, in this situation, the government is perhaps going to take some steps to ensure that the independence and inseparability of judges are safeguarded in a situation where a significant proportion of judges are in temporary posts. After all, we have quite a lot of judges at the moment, I believe, and when working pressures cause us to try to be effective, there is a small risk that the quality of convictions may vary if we try to be over-efficient. That's why I'm asking you a question. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u26	Mr President! A proper debate is taking place on these locations in relation to the activities of this state. However, in these surveys, which have been conducted by media, the majority of Finns specifically support the strong role of the state in the investment of state functions, and I would see that the Ministry of Justice here also follows a line that has also been sought during this government to take forward, based on the strengths of the regions, that these activities are carried forward and developed. The second point I would like to draw attention to is that of these district courts, when this restructuring is being carried out and when it comes to these remaining district courts, it has been hoped that their activities will be developed and strengthened. Is it intended, thought and line of action that these activities, such as these summarizing disputes which have been discussed, should now be concentrated on, for example, these smaller district courts, so that they can have access to existing good electronic procedures, which are also in the interests of legal protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u27	Mr Kulmala and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u28	Madam President! A judicial office must be set up, and everyone in this Chamber agrees with that. I will tell you about those tasks of the Court of Justice, because there seems to be some uncertainty about them. In other words, I quote directly from this proposal: ‘The Court of Justice would have the task of dealing with the conditions for the operation of the Court of Justice, the development of the Courts, the The Agency would operate in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, but it would be a functionally independent central agency. It would serve the entire judiciary.’ At this point, Minister, like so many others, I ask: why can an agency like this not be designed anywhere but in the capital region? We have, for example, Rovaniemi, Kouvola, Joensuu, which are areas where it could well be located.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u29	And then the minister will answer. — 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u30	Mr President! Looking a little beyond Finland’s borders, today’s most worrying development — not just the freezing of trade relations or others — is the undermining of the rule of law in many Western countries. It happens in the United States, it happens in many European countries. The judiciary is the cornerstone of the rule of law. Its trust, its ability to function, must be nurtured in Finland like a grain of gold. I would like nothing more to be confused with that than the arguments for ensuring the best functioning of the Court. It has been my basis for all decision-making. The tasks of the Court of Justice will be current tasks, not new ones. Most of them are currently managed by the Ministry of Justice. They are not accounting tasks, they are not payroll tasks. They are very important tasks relating to the functioning, development and direction of the judiciary, i.e. tasks on which the reliability, credibility, capacity, cost-effectiveness — the whole — of the judiciary will either succeed or fail. Therefore, the best possible functioning of this agency is the only criterion that was also used in the selection of the location. The expert committee thoroughly rudied the different localities, their positive and negative features. At the beginning of my ministerial term, I wanted to have a new study commissioned, which is the place best placed to safeguard the functioning of the judiciary in an age of scarce resources. From the point of view of location, accessibility, functional capacity, the Helsinki Metropolitan Area was the best, and Helsinki was not the best of the municipalities in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, but it was Vantaa, because it is easy to reach across Finland from the east as well as from the west, north and south. By far the majority of the court staff are located in the region of Southern Finland. It is cost-effective. This has been studied, and this analysis actually has several hundred pages. This has not been done on any whim. I believe that when you look at the speakers, I am, in fact, probably the only one from a very good rural area. [Department : No,no! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u31	Mr President! When the minister said these last words, I immediately got up. In other words, when we develop the judicial system, that is indeed what I would like to address and where I would like to see the courage to raise matters. Although we all know that every case that comes before a court is different and different, it seems that very similar cases are dealt with differently in different courts, and, among other things, penalties do not always seem to be common-minded. Are we going to intervene in such matters? And another thing, when these little things, especially the social and health aspects, are not paid for: Then, when they are recycled through collection companies and then, in due course, they go into enforcement and then these collection companies’ expenses, which go to court, and there they also set prices for them, will raise the debt level of these poor people and they will never get out of that debt. Is there a short cut here to make so that not all would need that judge’s tap?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u32	Then I guess it's time for the list of speakers. Mr Kurvinen will take the floor at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u33	Madam President! This establishment of a judicial office before us is a very positive thing, and I would like to thank the Sipilä Government for that. This has been a long-term goal, which has been very strongly pursued by the Finnish Association of Lawyers, among others. However, the biggest steak in this proposal is that it strengthens the independence of the Finnish courts and strengthens the tripartite doctrine of power in which we legislate here, officials exercise executive power and then independent, inseparable judges apply the laws. This is a positive thing in that way and at least increases independence. I hope that this proposal will also improve the quality of the judiciary. I think that Mr Raatikainen has made an excellent speech here in the debate on the fact that we have a very large number of temporary judges — and I personally know many young judges who are in this situation — and I fear that it is likely to weaken us, for example, to have the best quality, good, best staff to serve as judges. Otherwise, that independence will be questionable if your judgeship is suspended for a few months. I'm sure we could use some new ideas. President! I can't help but come back to this location. I would like the Minister of Justice to explain why he did not follow the recommendation of the Regional Coordination Group that the matter should be resolved during the whole Government session. Moreover, it seems funny when you are told here that a high-quality legal competence is not available anywhere but in the capital region. What, for example, does Rovaniemi or Vaasa’s law school do? Are they completely non-quality units? We have lawyers all over Finland, we have court rights in more places. You could say that this would be an easy regionalized target. And I cannot fail to mention from this expert report that, at a rather weak level, digitalisation in the Ministry of Justice still seems to exist if, because of travel costs, physical meetings of travel, this location was established in the capital region, because stock exchange companies, for example, use a lot of electronic meetings. President! Let me add to the end that in other Nordic countries it has been considered necessary to regionalise these types of agencies, such judicial agencies. Regionalisation is a Nordic model.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u34	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for the fact that this court office is finally being set up in Finland. It is a very necessary project and emphasises specifically that, according to the tripartite doctrine of power, we want to keep these different regim separate in Finland. It would be the task of the Court of Justice to ensure that the judicial system operates, as the Minister said above, in the development and planning of the courts and in support of them, and so on. This is therefore a very important piece of legislation which is now being discussed here in the referral debate. Of course, the location of this new agency has been raised here, and I think it is quite appropriate to have a debate on it again. I want to start by saying that I don't have anything against Vantaa, it's a great place to sleep, I'm sure they're doing a good job there. But when we talk about the development of Finland as a whole, it is today that we try not to break down a little bit of everything, but that we try to strengthen the natural strengths of each region and locality. When there are reasonable grounds for doing so, we will see, especially in the case of new agencies, what would be a reasonable location where there is already a centre of expertise, where there are clusters, and we also have several places in Finland where there are legal centres of competence. There's court, there's law school, and so on. When you look at the other Nordic countries, as Mr Kurvinen said well above, Sweden and Norway have decided that their court office is located about an hour's flight from the capital. And I am sure that, in making that decision, they too have left the very same goal as the Minister mentioned above, namely that ensuring the best functioning of the courts and securing the functioning of the Court of Justice is a guiding factor. But they have come to this, and they seem to have even more of the direction of a little thought that the whole country is being developed. It has to be acknowledged that although Vantaa is a great place, it is not like this a few ten-person agency in itself, but it is not a very big agency, Vantaa is extremely important in terms of employment. But if it had been located in another place in Finland, it would have been, in a certain way, a crown jewel that the locality would certainly have taken very good care of and sought the best possible conditions for its operation in that place. When we already have a natural demographic trend that seems to be that the population is gradually packing up here in the capital region and in the major centres, it would also be worth looking at politically to see if we could go a little further in the direction of this issue and build a complete Finland from this point of view as well. As has been said here, this investment decision took place in the regional coordination working group and the coordination working group's opinion required that this investment decision be taken to the Government for decision. That is why I am a little sorry that this did not happen, and it must also be acknowledged that there are differences of opinion between the parties in this multi-party system and that the Centre Group did send a clear and very unanimous message that this should be regionalised. The regions of eastern and northern Finland also unanimously supported regionalisation. Now, however, we are here and we must look ahead. As a whole, the project is a good one, although a little bit of this kind of unpleasant side taste, when great opportunities are now left untapped.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u35	Madam President! This court office, or the administration of justice, as it is now called, has been spoken of for many years and many reigns, and now we have such a minister of justice who has carried this out. So thank you, Attorney General. You are not only talking, but you are acting, even in this matter, as in many others. It is very important that this judicial office is finally set up. It performs very important tasks: it provides the operating conditions of the courts, the development, planning and support of the activities. As you said, these are not such payroll tasks, but we need specialists here, both in the area of legal competence and also in the area of development, education — top-notch. I am not saying that they are not everywhere in Finland, but these are what we need for this agency. It is important that this is an independent central agency. It is important that the courts also appear independent externally that they do not appear to be under political direction. I am not saying that this is the case, but it may seem so, and now such an independent agency will put an end to this externally difficult situation. It is quite clear that the staff of this agency who are elected must have experienced, respected staff who receive support from this so-called operational level, i.e. from the judges who are there in everyday life, with their hands in clay, to distribute the judgments. In my opinion, this staff, which is selected, must be truly experienced so that they have views. Against this background, I would like to ask — and I am sure the reports do — whether this is one of the reasons why it was decided to invest this agency here in southern Finland. I am not saying that there are no skilled staff elsewhere in Finland, but I believe that they are more easily available here in southern Finland. Was this the basis, one of them?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u36	Mr President! The establishment of a judicial office involves the removal of central administrative functions of the judiciary from the Ministry of Justice. According to the old tripartite doctrine, the decision is therefore well founded. It can be seen as contributing to the principle of independence of courts, and it also looks better in international comparisons. On the other hand, the Ministry of Justice must have carried out these tasks up to now with due respect for the independence of the courts, which means that we have not had a bigger problem so far. In public, the debate on the Court of Justice Office has focused mainly on the seat of the Court of Justice. This is understandable in itself. Among other things, many In the Nordic countries, state agencies are transferred from the capital to the regions to promote balanced regional development. However, the Minister of Justice has decided to invest the Office of Justice in Vantaa, although nine other cities were ready and eligible for investment. When the minister gave me the arguments, I certainly did not find the reason why it had to be transferred to Vantaa. After all, when it has to move from Helsinki somewhere, why does it have to go to Vantaa, where everything has to start building from the beginning? This whole thing is also about fairness. The central government is maintained with tax resources collected from the whole of Finland. However, their employees mainly live in the capital region, pay their taxes to the municipalities of the capital region and mainly use the services of these regions. This is a major transfer of income from Finland to the congestion area. We, the residents of the rest of Finland, therefore, support the people of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area very much. Do we all have to continue to support this? I therefore encourage the state administration to follow the example of the Social Insurance Institution, which has successfully regionalised its activities across Finland. Savings are also generated when premises are taken on the basis of low priced squares. Regionalisation would also work on the side of the judiciary if only good will were enough. None of us should give up, but there must be competent, competent staff in the Court of Justice, and we must not compromise on quality at all. We must assume that placement must be in the interests of the entire state. And it is in the interests of the whole state that it is, first of all, a cost-effective and functional entity. I already mentioned Rovaniemi as an example, which I know best: there are a lot of experts there, as far as I know, is a good centre of expertise, it is an interesting place. The residents will be happy to live permanently and be in Lapland. It's a safe environment, a secure environment. There's really a good college there. Highly qualified teachers and experts have been brought into the environment there. There are good connections, very good connections, good online connections and all the others. It doesn't mean the customer has to go to Rovaniemi so much. Of course, Finland is a very fast and small country when it comes to transport connections. I myself live 1,000 kilometers from here in Helsinki. If it's the right thing to do, it'll only take me four hours, and I'll be here. When I drive it 200 kilometers to Rovaniemi Airport and then I come here, I will be here in up to four hours in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u40	Madam President! This establishment of the Court of Justice is based on the Justice Reform Programme, which was published in 2013. The Finnish judicial system is now being reformed with a strong hand on the basis of that programme, and a lot of good things are happening there. It must of course be said that it is still too early to assess what all these reforms will produce together. Most of all, I am concerned about the legal protection of citizens, especially those on low incomes and those who are already having difficulty in getting their case. The number of courts and district courts is falling sharply. Different linguistic rights are constantly being compromised. They are now causing a different kind of pain in many places. It is difficult to get the staff to move to new points with their language skills. We will certainly have a lot of reports on this in the future. The establishment of a judicial office is a very welcome overall reform, and it must be said that it is a very wide-ranging proposal of confidence and hope. There have been very few opponents, and the whole judiciary and the Bar are supporting this reform. This location here, of course, gives rise to pain, and I would like to see an open debate between the Council of State on this place, which would be in line with the process, as promised to us parliamentarians, that this is how it will be handled. If such a debate has taken place — and I do not know everything that has happened — then it would be good to have an explanation as to why the government parties have come to such a decision, that this regional investment is not carried out here, even if such an opportunity exists and supports the whole country better than if the urban regions are only getting stronger. As a politician from the capital region, I am putting my future parliamentary election seat at stake here, but I still believe that Finland deserves such comprehensive treatment in these big decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u41	Madam President! There has been a great deal of centralisation in court administration, which is largely justified by the reasons for development and savings, but not in all respects. In November 2017, the Raahe Region received confirmation of a long debate on the abolition of the District Court of Raahe. The Parliament had decided to connect Ylivieska-Raahe District Court to the District Court of Oulu. Although it was part of a large project to develop the district court network, the final decision seemed overwhelming. Let it be that most of the people in the region would never use the services of the district court, is one of the vital elements of the city and the region. In the future, Raahe would not receive the services of the District Court at all, but as a rule, the district sessions in the Raahe region would be organised at the Oulu courthouse. The reform and the reduction of the district court network have been largely justified on the grounds of savings. In the next few years, district courts will have significant digital and security-related reforms that will require investments. The reform is also justified by improving the quality of justice when judges can develop more specialised expertise. Madam Speaker! I'd like to ask you a question, Minister of Justice. Now that the reform seems to come, the District Court will leave Raahe: Is the District Court of Oulu ready for the reform itself? Will the necessary premises be in place when the reform is due to take effect from the beginning of 2019? It is known that the current premises are tormented by indoor air problems. Will the reform ultimately be a saving if new, healthy premises need to be provided for the District Court of Oulu, even if there are healthy premises in the building built specifically as a courthouse in Raahe only 75 km from Oulu still available?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u42	Madam President! That is what was forgotten, Mr President, to say that this safeguarding of the independence of the Court of Justice is, of course, the first thing, as the Minister himself well emphasised in his speech. But when we look at these independence laws, which the Court must necessarily have — it is obvious, it is not worth even discussing — then when it comes to this new administration, wherever it begins, its tasks are of course at present the tasks of the Ministry of Justice and are transferred to this new agency, which in itself makes sense that they can be concentrated in one place and seen in the whole. Of course, the administrative tasks that will be transferred will make it easier for the Ministry of Justice to do its own work, and then the work that will be made easier will hopefully also be reflected, for example, in the development of different levels of legislation, so that we can secure the improvement of the various new laws and related problems that have received much criticism in this country as well, so that better legislation can be introduced in Finland. After all, there has been a lot of public debate about the fact that the level of our legislation, especially the new legislative proposals, has been very weak and there have been errors. Let us hope that progress can be made on this too. The fact that the new agency is responsible for improving the conditions for the functioning of the judiciary throughout the country is also a very good and desirable issue, and in this context I will raise the issue of this place of business, where this new agency will start. The Regional Coordination Group has dealt with this last summer and has said a heavy word about it that it should be a matter for the General Assembly of the Government to decide. It is only natural that in such a case, when new agencies are set up, there should be a comprehensive political debate about it so as not to be subjected to such a process, as has been noted, for example, in the case of the Medical Research Centre Fimea, where it was regionalised in Kuopio and then there was a huge noise, even though Kuopio has world-class medicine and also medical expertise. So that's what other people have. I do not want anyone's judgment or judgment in this to be questioned, but the question is that we should recognise that there are skills in this country on very many sides of Finland. In the area of law, for example, very many universities teach high-quality law in this country successfully, and they have done very well in the country, and this too should sometimes be seen. It cannot be, for goodness' sake, that, in all cases, as if the basic point is that everyone in the capital region and then out of a few small pieces is fighting the rest. That's not how it can be. I hope, Madam President, and I also hope, Minister, that you will consider this once again, even if I have understood the point of your speech, that consideration will hardly come again. I hope, however, that it will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u43	Let us take these three speeches briskly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u44	Mr President! Oh, yes, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, — It is good to have a debate here on the development of the administration of the Ministry of Justice, the availability of its services and also the regional implications. Last year a regional city programme was completed in Finland, where the effectiveness of public jobs and the availability of services were also considered. It was partly based on the opinion of the Audit Committee on the situation in Savonlinna, where teacher education ceased. In my opinion, this is not just a question of jobs, but also of the availability and effectiveness of services that should be viewed in these two cities, the regions, where there are 55 copies in Finland. Here I come to the side of the matter, this enforcement action, which I can say a word about. I think that digitalisation is progressing and that it is good to keep those services close to the local cities when there is a need. In other words, in Varsinais-Suomi, Turku does not even have facilities to centralise these services, yet such a plan exists. In my opinion, if we are to take the regional urban programme forward, we must now also take account of this regional impact, the availability of services and the development of these regions, many of which are really strong export cities and sustain Finland's economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u45	Mr President! The Court of Justice itself is quite well-founded, long-awaited. For example, the Committee on Legal Affairs has long called for a judicial office in Finland. There is no comment on the performance itself. However, with some confusion, I have followed this debate and that is why I wanted to make this speech and actually ask whether there is a risk here that this move forward by the Court of Justice is not as obvious as I had previously thought. Here the representatives of the Centre Party and the Coalition Party are actually pretty much hair-licking. Mr Heinonen has already shouted here a few times from his own seat that what is needed for this opposition? I'm confused. There is clearly a deep gap between the centre and the assembly in this matter, a great contradiction. The Minister of Justice in this Chamber has received quite a lot of criticism about this place, and now I really want to ask Mr Häkkkäs and the representatives of the government parties: is there now a risk that this issue will not move forward? Clearly, there is now quite a contradiction and a cross appeal between the parties in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u46	There was one further request to speak, Mr Heinonen, and then a two-minute reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u47	Madam President! I must say that I think that this proposal from Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government is good. As has been mentioned several times in this debate, the Court of Justice has been discussed for a long time, but now, under the leadership of Justice Minister Häkkänen, this will be put into practice and implemented. In fact, as I understand it, this government proposal has been in the Government and has gone forward with unanimity in the Government's deliberations. So much for this conversation. Mr President! In other words, the establishment of a judicial office at the beginning of 2020 is intended to strengthen, above all, the independence of the courts, which is one of the cornerstones of the rule of law, which has been mentioned in several speeches in this debate. As a central authority, the judicial office would be more natural for the ministry and would therefore be responsible for the central administrative functions of the courts. It certainly makes sense that they should be combined, and that is how efficiency can be achieved on this side. The Agency will therefore have the bulk of the central government tasks up to now and up to 2020 in the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice will then carry out the Government-level tasks related to the judiciary, such as strategic and financial guidance and legislative preparation. Mr President! It is a good thing that this matter is now moving forward, and it is hoped that the parliamentary procedure will also move forward in a good spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u48	And Mr Kurvinen, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u49	Thank you, Madam Speaker! In that way, we must correct Mr Heinonen's good speech that, of course, this court office has left the Council of State unanimously, but the location issue is something that has not been brought before the Government as a whole. This must certainly be corrected, and it can be said that even though we have studied with Mrs Maijala in Lapland, for example: In Vaasa, it would have been easy for the Court of Appeal and Administrative Court to have bilingual staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u51	Then the minister, two minutes. If anyone wishes to reserve another speaking time, they will then move on to the evening, because now we have to move on to another matter, just as we had planned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u52	Mr President! There are indeed two things here: the government's proposal for a judicial office and the location. The location is purely within the ministry's own competence, as it has been and has been in the past. These are technical and administrative issues. The legislative issues are a matter for this House. Thank you for the good feedback on this project. The most important thing now is that the judicial office is brought forward in a good spirit and that it is possible to develop the judicial system so that the legal protection of citizens even improves in Finland, i.e. the system is made to work in a time of scarce resources so that every citizen can enjoy high-quality legal protection regardless of the size of the wallet. The reliability of the court’s decisions is a priority, not where, for example, the Court of Justice is now located. That too must be taken into account, but that is not the primary criterion. Is such a firewall needed in Finland? I have considered it important, even though we are at the top of the world's rule of law, that we still strengthen the firewall between party politicians and court rulings and courts in Finland. And although there have been no problems in Finland, there is a certain need to remedy the fact that the politically-led ministry is still very closely attached to the administration of the courts. The principle of the rule of law is the threefold doctrine of power, which clearly distinguishes legislative, administrative and judicial powers, and this now strengthens that principle. In Europe, many countries are currently moving in a different direction in the field of the rule of law, in a very worrying direction. In this case, Finland is taking a clear step towards an even stronger rule of law. These members of the Executive Board were asked whether municipal councillors could be members of the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice. That is why I have not considered it justified that local councillors should be there, that they are politicians. They don't belong on the board of the Court of Justice. I hope there's other things to do. Regionalisation Development Group
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u53	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for this referral debate. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. However, if the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda is 5. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u54	Madam President! The motion proposes that the law on the discharge of Jehovah’s Witnesses from military service in some cases be repealed. To begin with, a little background to this Liberation Act. In the 1980s, the liberation law of Jehovah’s Witnesses was enacted primarily for practical and humanitarian reasons, not so much for legal reasons. At that time Jehovah’s Witnesses absolutely refused both military and civil service, and nearly all so - called total pronunciations were Jehovah’s Witnesses. Total disenfranchisers were sentenced to relatively long prison sentences. The Liberation Act was already in conflict with the provisions on equality of government and the obligation to defend the country in force at the time. That is why the law was enacted in the order in which the Constitution was enacted, so to speak, as an exemption law. Well, then, why do we have to abolish the Liberation Act now? Since the 1980s, the circumstances behind the adoption of the Act on Exemption have changed in many respects. Civil service has been completely separated from the Defence Forces, and at the same time the attitude of Jehovah’s Witnesses toward civil service has become significantly more positive. When preparing the government proposal, Jehovah’s Witnesses have made it clear that they as a community do not prevent anyone from engaging in civil service and that there will be no negative consequences for Jehovah’s Witnesses. The circumstances that have led to the release law in due course no longer exist. At the same time, the importance of fundamental rights in society has increased significantly, and a law such as the Liberation Act, which is clearly discriminatory, can no longer be regarded as acceptable to the system of fundamental rights. When the Constitutional Constitution was adopted, the Constitutional Committee expressly obliged the government to avoid adopting exemption laws and to take steps to repeal or bring the old exemption laws into line with the constitutional requirements. On several occasions, the Act on the Liberation of Jehovah’s Witnesses has been found to be incompatible with the principle of equality laid down in Article 6 of the Constitution and with the prohibition of discrimination in addition to that laid down in Article 127 of the Constitution as well as with the obligation to defend the country. The Liberation Act discriminates against all other conscientious objectors by putting one religious conviction in a better position than other beliefs. It's not today. The problem of the exemption law has also arisen in the recent case law on total refusal, which further underlines the need for immediate correction of the legislation. The repeal of the Exemption Act is by far the most trouble-free possible solution in order to remedy the discriminatory situation. The abolition of the Liberation Act would effectively eliminate the related issue of equality, while safeguarding universal military service and thereby the Defence Forces' ability to produce the forces required by Finland's defence capability. Mr President! It is proposed that the repeal of the Liberation Act be carried out in such a way that it does not have retroactive effect on Jehovah’s Witnesses who have already received an exemption from military service. Moreover, those of Jehovah’s Witnesses who have not yet been released from military service but who have received or applied for a suspension of military service in accordance with the Liberation Act before the law enters into force would have the opportunity to apply for exemption from military service within three months. In practice, during that three - month period, relief could thus continue to be granted to Jehovah’s Witnesses who have attended the invitations before the law of repeal enters into force. The purpose of the transitional provision is to ensure that the repeal of the exemption law does not lead to an unacceptable situation for an individual person. After a transitional period of three months, exemptions would no longer be granted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u55	And there were a few debatable wishes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u56	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good presentation. The situation has really changed since the 1980s when Jehovah’s Witnesses who completely refused military service entered prisons, and this liberation law was certainly a very practical matter when it was enacted. I myself was in contact with the office of Jehovah’s Witnesses in this regard to see how their thinking has changed, and they confirmed that civil service such as the present one, which has been removed from military service, is different from what they have in due course refused. However, when talking about Jehovah’s Witnesses, it is very important that Finland treats their beliefs with dignity and recognizes the fact that there are many countries in the world where Jehovah’s Witnesses suffer because of their own beliefs: Russia has bad news at the moment, countries like Eritrea have them in prisons. So we also take account of their overall situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u57	Mr President! It must be pointed out to representative Haavisto that man’s conviction may be very serious even if it is not in any way religious. But the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group and The Left Alliance as a party supports the removal of the exemption of Jehovah’s Witnesses. From the perspective of equality and equality there is no reason to put one group ahead of others. After all, the obligation of national defence applies to everyone, but it should be thought of such forms of service that the form of service does not get too close to the armed forces, that even a person of ethical conviction who does not want to have dealings with weapons can fulfil this undisputed duty. Then, if non-religious persons with strong ethical convictions are left to judge through a procedure, what organization and who is the person who can ultimately judge the beliefs of another person?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u59	Madam President! This is a good bill. Just as noted above, it will increase equality. And since civil service has evolved over the years, this is also an approved form among Jehovah’s Witnesses in the future, and in that respect too will actually come back to this day as far as legislation is concerned. But when every Finn is responsible for national defence, the overall security needs to be taken care of, and if crisis conditions occur, then everyone must have certain knowledge and skills in how this country works and how it works in crisis situations. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister about this overall security approach: what could be done about it, and how could civil service, or even the civil service that has been promoted or spoken of, be developed in such a way that the overall safety skills of Finns would increase and everyone would have the capacity to do so in the event of a crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u60	Madam President! I consider the government's proposal to be sound and justifiable. This government presentation and the views of Jehovah’s Witnesses on civil service also show how well the Finnish civil service system has developed over the decades. There is great confidence in the civil service system. I also welcome the proposal from the point of view that religions are treated equally and that the obligation to defend the country is being clarified. That really applies to all of us. I would have asked the Minister when the Parliamentary Ombudsman in his opinion on the preparation of this law expresses his very serious wish that the Constitutional Committee should nevertheless be consulted on this issue of Jehovah’s Witnesses, because 20 years of case law has already been created through the exemption law in their private legion. What do you think, Minister, what other questions should the Committee on Constitutional Affairs possibly ask, if that is the case? will the committee be asked to give its opinion?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u61	Madam President! It is quite clear that everyone's convictions must be respected, and that is what I do. My friends, too, have Jehovah’s Witnesses who, of course, have acted under current law, or have not applied for military service or civilian service. But, on the other hand, my view, especially of their younger representatives, is that there is really no obstacle in itself to the civil service being not carried out, but that, of course, when the legislation has been present it has been complied with, and the government's proposal is very necessary in that sense. Then, of course, when it comes to whether this motion of censure is in some way incompatible with Finland's international human rights obligations, it is not. Yes, the current situation is also problematic from this point of view, which is currently discriminatory against other religions. After all, that problem will be eliminated when the Liberation Act is repealed. But when it comes to civil service, to which these people would also apply, it should be developed in such a way as to contribute in some way to overall security, and I would like to ask the Minister: in this context, how would you comment in general on the development of civil service?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u62	Madam President! I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for this legislative amendment. The direction is indeed the right one. I do not understand why any group should have any exemptions. Civil service is specifically for those whose conviction prevents military service or unarmed service in the Defence Forces. This is a very important step towards equality for citizens in terms of the duty to defend the country. I look forward with great interest to the committee reading and expert opinions. It is good that different implementation options have also been considered as a legislative change. With this information and at this stage in the proceedings, it is easy to agree with the government’s proposal to repeal the exemption law for Jehovah’s Witnesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u63	Madam President! The background to this is found in the decision of the Helsinki Court of Appeal, which stated that the exemption of Jehovah’s Witnesses from military service discriminates against total disenfranchisers, among other things. On the other hand, the United Nations Committee on Human Rights has also criticised the law of liberation that favors us as Jehovah’s Witnesses. When this presentation came under the direction of Minister of Defence Niinistö, it was interesting to note that during the consultation Jehovah’s Witnesses actually did not say anything about it, or they did not take a stand on it, and in fact almost all the statements except for one or two statements were positive for this position. According to Article 127 of the Constitution, every citizen of our country is obliged to defend his country, and now that we have a good civil service and this connects and brings everything to the same line, could there be a place here, Minister of Defence, to discuss civil service? In other words, we could develop this whole in the direction that everyone would fill through section 127 of the Constitution through the civil service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u64	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Niinistö for this proposal and for your boldness in bringing this matter to the table. The Finnish population is increasingly diverse in terms of religions. We are beginning to have very many different religions and other beliefs. Most of us in this House have taken a national defence course. At one time I was not allowed to go to the army, but at the national defence course I noticed how many crisis issues exist in society. Indeed, not all of them talk about weapons, but about all the other things that it is good to know and control how to deal with them. Now, then, I ask the minister: Now that the law change is under way here and probably Jehovah’s Witnesses should be involved in the defence work, what new forms of service are under way and what new working groups or activities are under way to seek these alternatives?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u65	Mr President! This law is necessary and good and hopefully will soon come into force. But I would ask about these things when I do not quite know: can a serious disturbance or emergency situation impose a mobilization if there is a danger to Finland, not only to the conscripts but also to those in civilian service, or will their activities then differ in some way and in what way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u66	Mr President! In time, the special treatment of Jehovah’s Witnesses has been well - founded for practical reasons, but now this presentation is timely and very well - founded. It is important that all religious and other beliefs are also treated equally in the military system, just as the Constitution requires. I drew attention to the fact that Jehovah’s Witnesses themselves were very vaguely commenting on this proposal, the opinion merely stated that the recommendations of the group do not violate the beliefs of Jehovah’s Witnesses, that Jehovah’s Witnesses make their decisions on the basis of their conscience, which, of course, raises the question as to whether there will still be some who, however, refuse civil service. It is, of course, important, then, that civil service be developed with regard to both total pronunciations and Jehovah’s Witnesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u67	Mr President! This is such a typical subject that the practical significance is relatively small, but the importance of principle is relatively high. In other words, giving one religion exemption from military service does not correspond to a citizen’s sense of justice. It's a kind of forced Swedish study that no one really understands why it has to be done. It is also a little difficult to understand what would be the kind of conviction that could at all exempt society from serving unarmed or civilian service. It's a very special idea. I therefore believe that this proposal should be supported, and I hope that it will also be a step towards dismantling the differences based on other faith systems and avoiding new regulations. There would certainly be pressure for such regulation, especially from the new religions that came into the country, but there can be only one law in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u68	Mr President! This amendment of the law is now removing one of the problems of equality, and that is good, but it does not solve the problems of total refusals in Finland. Although, in my opinion too, it is quite right not to put one conviction in a position of inequality with regard to other beliefs that are negative towards military duty, it may well be that this amendment of the law may also result in an increase in the number of total disenfranchisers or prisoners of conscience in Finland. In fact, I would have liked to ask the Minister for his opinion that if we now want civil service to be an equal and attractive alternative to military service, how do you see the proposals, for example, to shorten the duration of civil service and how do you see that civil service should then be developed in terms of content. Many still interpret in particular this duration as an indication that it is still like this sort of punitive service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u69	Mr President! As far as equality is concerned, there seems to be a very uniform view in the Chamber of Parliament, that is, in view of all parties, that there is good reason for this. Of course, going down this road at the time was justified, but the time is now different, and fortunately we have come to this point. This is not so much a question of defence policy as this is a matter of equality. When the Minister is well aware of how the Government Programme came up with the issue of dual nationality and property and land acquisition issues, does the Minister think that it is possible that the future Government Programme would actually include not only civil service, but also so much so that civil service and the actual military service would be comparable alternatives for young Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u70	Madam President! Indeed, this proposal is very far from the point of view of equality and is justified in that sense. Personally, I think it is important that citizens are treated equally here, and at the moment I think that the law of conscription or civil service is good and effective in Finland. Of course, security of supply is one thing, which must always be taken into account when discussing security and defence. The issue of defence here has also been raised as a topic of discussion. I would like to ask the Minister: how many people are judged to be involved in this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u71	Mr President! The government's proposal seems to be getting a lot of praise in the Chamber, that's all. The government has done an excellent job. There are several reasons why Jehovah’s Witnesses should be abolished. Indeed, the circumstances underlying the exemption law have changed in many respects since the law was enacted in the 1980s. As has been pointed out here, the military service and civil service have been significantly developed, and Jehovah’s Witnesses’ own attitude toward civil service has also become more positive. It is very much to be welcomed that, in the future, the repeal of the law will allow all religious and other beliefs to be treated equally in Finnish military law. I believe that this is a good and fair starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u72	Madam President! It is worth remembering that there are thousands of different religions and beliefs and views of all kinds in the world. The only thing that connects them is that they can't all be right, but they can all be wrong. On that basis, too, it would be very strange if one belief had some kind of privilege in Finland not to deal with these particular matters or to deal with them in some other way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u75	Mr President! As has already been said here, Article 127 of the Constitution assumes that every Finnish citizen is obliged to participate in or assist in the defence of the father country according to the law. This does not look at age or gender as such, but applies to all Finnish citizens. There is a contradiction in the law before us which runs into two fundamental rights: equality in accordance with Article 6 of the Constitution and freedom of religion and conscience in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution. When two fundamental rights collide, it is often thought of who wins, who is stronger. But this is not the basis for our fundamental rights system; it is the basis for our efforts to implement both. I personally see that with this proposal we will be able to reconcile these when we have an unarmed service and then civil service, so that both equality and freedom of religion and conscience can be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u76	Madam President! There's a really strong basis for this performance, but when I think back, a little older,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u79	Two more replies, Mr Jarva and Mr Savola, then an opportunity to reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u80	Mr President! This proposal is certainly to be welcomed, and it is good that there is strong support for this from the side of the House. For the sake of equality, it will also have to be discussed in the future — once this proper proposal is brought forward — how to really get the whole young age group to fulfil this obligation to defend the country and whether or not to say, resources/information and skills to act in the event of a crisis. Those of us who have been to voluntary military service have the knowledge, the skills, but still the majority of women and a large proportion of men do not have the knowledge and skills that a large-scale attack on the country should have, for example. How can this training be carried forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u81	Madam President! Yes, military service is always the one that is the number one, that is able to form wartime troops for us and that able to train a skilled reserve for us. You have to hold on to it with your fingernails and teeth. That is why I would not go into civil service, civil service and military service in that sense. The first thing is always military service. However, if there are reasons for conviction or similar, I believe that everyone should have those responsibilities towards society and then civil service becomes another option. Nor would I be going to shorten it, since military service is, however, physically tougher. There are practically 24/7 closed, and there are these military skills and so on, this training, which is even more demanding in that respect. And as far as total denial is concerned, I'm raising the hat to the president of the Republic. Among other things, he has not given any pardon for total denial, even though these have been applied for. This is a good line, which we should stick to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u82	To the minister, three minutes at the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u83	Madam President! Thank you very much for your support, for the very one-sided debate on referrals. Congressman Haavisto started by talking about conviction. Certainly, it was not meant to undervalue the beliefs of Jehovah’s Witnesses in any way, but now, with this government’s presentation, convictions are put on the same line as it were. Civil service and the development of civil service were raised in several speeches. This is certainly something that all parties in their forthcoming electoral programmes will take a stand on, and certainly, as Mrs Kanerva has said, there will be a line on the matter. Civil service, if it is to be developed, could serve more overall security by explicitly serving this overall security. A register would be drawn up of all civil service providers, which could then be used, if necessary, if considered to be good in a crisis situation. This was a question put by Mr Savola, Mr Elo and Mr Heinonen. I would also like to point out that I do not believe that any civil service that endangers military service is a possible development. Civil service could provide military service, for example, for men and voluntary women who have been released for health reasons, but it must also be provided with resources. It must not be out of the defence budget. Representative Mäkipää, all Finns have an obligation to defend the country, and carrying out civil service does not give us the opportunity not to participate in the war effort in a specified way. There are also needs on the home front. Each year, Jehovah’s witnesses to the age of military service are about a hundred, which is for the benefit of Pakkainen, and this is also related to the question of representative Räsänen. Even if only some of them refused civil service, the amount would be relatively small anyway. I am not in favour of shortening the civil service on the same grounds as Mr Savola listed, but the content should, as I said earlier, serve overall security. Mr Kankaanniemi referred to the word ‘convict’. It's actually the term Amnesty International used. Finland has the right to object to arms. It is guaranteed by the possibility of seeking civil service in particular, and total disqualifications are specifically condemned for refusing civil service. Amnesty's views are the opinions of a private organisation. No official body, the UN or the Council of Europe, sees total denials as prisoners of conscience.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u84	All right, and then let's go on the list of speakers. This conversation will last until 16.05, which is an hour, as agreed. If you don't talk, they'll move on to the evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u85	Mr President! It is very good that the law on the release of Jehovah’s Witnesses from military duty can be updated to modern times. Representatives of different religious denominations cannot be put on an unequal footing in relation to each other, taking into account equal treatment. We certainly also agree that no one, no one or any body or religion, in principle does not want violence. This is a matter of national defence and the common interest of Finns. However, if anyone has difficulty accepting military defence participation, there is a civil service opportunity, and it is also a good way to be involved in Finland's preparedness for crisis situations and also provides valuable experience in other life. However, as has been pointed out here in previous speeches, civil service also requires development and, above all, support for its crisis management activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u86	Mr President! According to the Finnish Constitution, every Finnish citizen is obliged to participate in or assist in the defence of the fatherland, and according to the Constitution, people are equal before the law. The defence of our country is based on a general military duty and a large reserve which, if necessary, will form a military force during the war. In view of these facts and points of law, the situation of Jehovah’s Witnesses has been peculiar and unusual, and although it has indeed had its own practical arguments, I welcome the fact that the law is now being updated. At present, therefore, the male members of this community do not have to perform military or civil service, which, as the Helsinki Court of Appeal has pointed out, puts other total disqualifications in an unequal position. After all, this special freedom of Jehovah’s Witnesses has been in force since 85 C.E., and in time it was enacted as an exception law. It should also be noted that, in the context of the reform of fundamental rights, the principle was adopted in 95 that exceptions should be avoided in the future, so this proposal is also in line with the current attitude towards the Constitution. I understand that Jehovah’s Witnesses worldwide do not share in military service but, indeed, in civil service in some countries, and in that sense too, this situation in Finland has been unusual. After all, Jehovah’s Witnesses as an organization are a well - organized and doctrinal organization, so it might be thought that, from a religious conviction onward, civilian service would be entirely possible for them in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u87	Madam President! In Finland, the general obligation to defend the country and the current Freedom Act of Jehovah’s Witnesses should be updated in such a way that there will be no conflict with the principle of equality and non-discrimination. All religious and other beliefs should be treated equally in the military system. Otherwise, there is a risk that this exemption will even be extended in the future and that the various groups will consider themselves entitled to the same exemption. It is problematic that at present one religion is completely exempt from military or civil service. Finland is bound by international human rights obligations, such as equality and non-discrimination. The repeal of the exemption law will remove the problem. The proposal makes the current state of Finnish military law more compatible with Finland's international human rights obligations. Uniform treatment is today and fully justified. The abolition of the exemption from one religion definitely contributes to the demand for equal treatment of religious and other beliefs. Furthermore, the repeal of the Liberation Act of Jehovah’s Witnesses will not limit the possibility of civil service by a military officer of Jehovah’s Witnesses, so the proposal will have no effect on the right of conscientious objector of Jehovah’s Witnesses. The government's proposal is now a good one and a worthy one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u88	Mr President! The military service in our country is performed by over 20,000 persons each year, less than a thousand of whom are women. Every year there are some 1,500 to 1,800 civil servants and total disqualifications between 30 and 50, the majority of whom are serving the sentence they have been sentenced to, so to speak, as a control penalty. The government proposal proposes to repeal the law on the release of Jehovah’s Witnesses from military service in some cases. The aim is to ensure that all religious and other beliefs are treated equally in relation to military service as required by the Constitution. Since the Finnish defence system is based on general military duty and the reserve it produces, which enables the defence of the country as a whole, the proposal thus ensures the Defence Forces’ ability to produce the wartime forces required by the Finnish defence system. For a long time, then, Jehovah’s Witnesses, as a community, have not objected to civil service or denied their members civil service, but would be an individual’s own choice. Moreover, civil service would not affect a person’s position or any confidence in the community of Jehovah’s Witnesses. The annulment of the Law would not affect the legal status of persons who have been granted exemption under the Exemption Act of Jehovah’s Witnesses prior to the entry into force of the Repeal Act. The exemption could continue to be granted to the person whose application for exemption under the Exemption Act of Jehovah’s Witnesses has been initiated before the law of repeal enters into force, and to those who have applied for a stay under the Exemption Act and apply for exemption within three months of the entry into force of the Act. After that, no one could be granted any more exemptions. Therefore, after the entry into force of this law, any person invited should in future choose either military service or civil service. The attitude of Jehovah’s Witnesses toward military service is critical, so it is assumed that military service is out of the question, perhaps in individual cases. So it is not yet known whether the reasons for conscience also prevent civilian service. Mr President! As Minister Niinistö mentioned, Jehovah’s Witnesses become about a hundred in military service each year, and even if some refuse to serve in civil service, the number is relatively small among 20,000 military service workers. I support this government proposal, and I hope that we will be able to bring this into force soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u89	Madam President! The government proposes that the release of Jehovah’s Witnesses from military service be abolished. The proposal is also supported by the Christian Democrats and should be supported as a whole. In February, the Helsinki Court of Appeal held that the imprisonment of a person who refused civil service constituted discriminatory treatment. The solution was based on the fact that Jehovah’s Witnesses have been exempted from military and civil service by separate law. It is therefore necessary to eliminate inequalities in existing legislation. Different beliefs must be treated equally and without discrimination. We must therefore have a system that will also stand up to the human rights review. This proposal also provides an opportunity to hold a debate on the development of the current civilian service, and it would be good to reserve a little more time for this debate. The position and view of the Christian Democrats is clear. The current model, based on the general military duty of men and the voluntary service of women, is credible, effective and tested. You can also carry out military duty unarmed. However, alternatives to the obligation of defence could be extended and thus also increased participation of women in general defence. The Christian Democrats believe that national defence must be based on universal military duty, credible and independent defence and a regional defence system. The military obligation must be developed in such a way that the reserve forces can respond better to rapidly changing security situations and hybrid warfare. Mr President! This is where Mr Andersson raised the possibility of an increase in total refusals. I also think that this is a real opportunity, and it is a good idea to be prepared for it. I also find this duration of civil service problematic because it is not equal and has the very nature of the penalty for expressing conviction. Everyone wants to fulfil their national defence obligations, that's what I think, but not everyone wants to do it with the power of guns. Here Mr Mustajärvi stated that who can judge the conviction of a person. I thought it was a good question. At the moment, the Finnish Immigration Service has been paid with state funds to assess the conviction of immigrants and asylum seekers. I think that this issue deserves a broader debate, that who has the abilities and abilities to judge, whose conviction it is, how deep it is and when it has been born and so on, so that it can then be determined whether he is serious or not. I remember when, in time, I myself sought civilian service. When I was 17 years old, I stood in front of three soldiers, and it was good that I didn't let myself down when I looked at those gentlemen and they insisted on what the conviction of a young man was. Fortunately, this practice subsequently disappeared when Finland was reprimanded by the Court of Human Rights and then became humane and human dignity respected. Internationally, the situation of Jehovah’s Witnesses is that they have no common doctrine of how military service should be viewed, but it varies from country to country. In that sense, this presentation, which is now at hand, Minister of Defence, does not in any way offend the religious beliefs of Jehovah’s Witnesses. I support this proposal and I hope that it will produce good debates in committee and that we will produce a report which will also add value to the Finnish defence debate. Defending the country doesn't always have to mean armed defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u90	Madam President! First of all, with Mr Laukkanen’s good speech at the end, I would like to say that I also appreciate the Minister’s speech that civil service needs to be developed, and that it has evolved in time, that there is no longer any need for a young conscript to be let down when the officers ask for conviction. It is an extremely important matter for the rule of law and democracy, and also for the will to defend the country, that we feel that defence is a common cause and that each of us can make a personal contribution to that work through our own personal convictions. I really appreciate that the Minister also said about this development of civil service in the same direction, and, in fact, in the same context, I would like to ask — even though the elections here in Finland are now approaching at a rapid pace — if we could look for such a parliamentary vision, I am not talking about a working group or any other rigid system, but something about how civil service could be developed in the coming years, in which direction, in what way. Through this too, we could develop the will to defend the country in order to obtain this duty of defence and the support of the entire people, so that no one in this republic would feel that civil service was a punishment, but that it was one form of duty. On the same occasion, I would like to ask the Minister about this opinion of the Parliamentary Ombudsman: I wrongly said that this state of affairs would have been more than 20 years. It's been over 30 years, just like it's already come out of the '80s. The Ombudsman draws attention to two points. One is this consultation of the Constitutional Committee on the matter and the other is a transitional period relating to this law, which the Ombudsman considers to be too short. Should we, Minister, increase the transitional period and should we now also ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u91	Madam President! The law to abolish the law on the release of Jehovah’s Witnesses is under discussion, and, of course, a good discussion has already taken place in the last 45 minutes. We seem to have a unified view that this law of the 1980s, in which the amounts are no longer large, is now well founded. And more than these amounts are about principle. It is a matter of being on an equal footing in this society and no religious group has any freedom from the duties we have towards society. Our defence system is based on general military duty and reserve-based wartime forces. In fact, about 96% of our wartime strength is reservers, and this is indeed a very great strength that we have in national defence. There are dangerous examples very close by. In Sweden, for example, a general military duty was waived in 2009 and there has been a lot of regret: it is no longer possible to bring together the number of military forces that would be required, and when attempts have been made to restore military service, the number of recruitments has been very small. If this one could get a little slack, it wouldn't be easy, if ever, to get it back. We have more than 20,000 Finns to carry out the military duty. It is carried out in different time periods depending on the mission description. 165 days is the shortest time, and 255 days and 347 days are these other periods plus then the reserve investment and possible refresher exercises. In other words, all in all, military service, as it always lasts for us to be 60 years old, can bring with it a great deal of responsibilities, and that is why I am, in a way, disillusioned by the idea that the duration of civil service should be reduced to some form of punishment. Yes, there are different ways of looking at equality, such as physicality, burden, modesty and ensuring that military and military defence is taken care of at all, compared with civil responsibility through civil service. But I would very much like to see this whole concept of security developed, including in the field of civil service. Surely we will have in the debate many times that overall safety training in Finland will be more thought-provoked. But I think it should be very careful that it does not undermine precisely these military skills and undermine the military service that we currently have. I would like to highlight the importance of voluntary defence. Having been able to chair the voluntary National Defence Advisory Board for this parliamentary term and having visited various exercises, I am very impressed by these Women's Preparedness Association exercises that are being held. It is precisely these basic skills of the citizen that are given to women. Women themselves train there and learn. They are very popular courses, and they are always full in the first hours. In fact, if resources were to be increased, even more women would be able to attend these Women's Preparedness Federation courses. This is what is needed, and this is our voluntary defence field we should be able to make much more use of in this country. The activities of the Reservist League, the Reservi Officers' Federation, the Federation of National Defence Guilds, and then, of course, as a training organisation, the MPK should be developed. I am very pleased that the Minister has taken these seriously and that defence training and the role of the MPK will be significantly improved in the future and there will also be more obligations and rights on the MPK side. Madam Speaker! To the end of this equality. In my opinion, total denial is no alternative, and it should become an appropriate punishment if there is no obligation to society to do so. And as I said in the debate, the President of the Republic is a good example of the fact that he has given no amnesty to total pronunciations when he is in office, and that is the line from which to hold.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u92	Since the plan was that this section would end on 16.15, two speeches will be made, Mrs Maijala and Mrs Elo, and then two minutes to the minister. Then let us move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u93	Mr President! In Finland, we have the religious freedom guaranteed by the Constitution. In various contexts in this society, and also here in Parliament, there has been a twist about what kind of things can be allowed to be a person's freedom of conscience. However, it is clear that there are certain social obligations that apply to all Finns. For example, everyone who makes money has a duty to pay taxes. You can't get out of this even if you feel it's working against your own conviction. According to the Constitution, every Finnish citizen is obliged to participate in or assist in the defence of the country of origin according to the law. Some speak of so - called total denial as a human right. For me and, I believe, for all my constituents, it is a cone arcticism, treason. The penalties for total refusal mentioned in the government proposal should therefore be maintained. Good. Finland's defence is primarily based on a high will to defend the country and a general military duty. We also have the opportunity to perform civil service if, for ideological or other reasons, you do not consider that you can perform military service. So this is also an option for Jehovaans who do not want to share in military service. Of course, it is good to remind you that our defences would collapse if all young men in Finland chose civil service. That is why it is good that the majority of them perform military service and thus strengthen the credibility of our army and our defence. The compulsory military service applies only to men, but many women have also performed military service or are otherwise involved in voluntary national defence work. After all, I might have done it too if I had been begging in my day, but I was getting old before it came. These forms of action should be further developed. Through the history of Lotta Svärd, we already have strong roots for women's participation in national defence. There are many different religions in Finland, and neither the traditional Christian folk churches in our country nor other Christian communities have claimed privileges in military service. Instead, many of them, even those I know, have performed civil service or unarmed service. There is no lasting justification for the privilege of Jehovah’s Witnesses in this matter, especially since national defence today means much more than fighting on the front and must be seen as a preparation for the most diverse threats to our society. Mr President! Anyone who wants to live in this country and enjoy the benefits and services that this nation offers him is also obliged to contribute to the defence of his country, so I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give the floor to Mr Elo and then to the Minister for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u95	Mr President! This government proposal is indeed a proposal to repeal the exemption law that came into force in 1987 — one year after my birth. The question of compliance with the requirement of equality laid down in the Constitution is in this proposal for repeal. In the light of the principle of equality in the Constitution, it is highly justified that no one — no one — should be put on an unequal footing depending on their convictions. For this reason, it is, of course, justified that Minister Niinistö has taken steps to secure a defence solution based on Finland's general military duty in a situation where it is more uncertain that total refusal will result in a penalty. This decision by the Court of Appeal does not yet have the force of law, since the prosecutor has applied to the Supreme Court for an appeal, so it remains to be seen how the final decision sees the matter. After all, the right of non-proliferation in Finland itself is guaranteed by the possibility of seeking civil service, and this proposal does not alter that possibility. During the consultation, the proposal was also widely supported by the opposition. However, it should be noted that the Greens stated: ‘In the case of problems, the positive special treatment of Jehovah’s witnesses is not addressed by the same legislation. The Greens assume that the conscientious objector should not be punished. Rather than abolishing the exemption from Jehovah’s Witnesses, this should be corrected so that representatives of other similar depths of convictions can also be exempted from military and civil service. When applying for an exemption, the applicant should be able to justify his or her convictions.’ The Greens' proposal, I must say, would jeopardise Finland's defence system based on general military duty. Mr President! It must also be said that it is very difficult to see a situation in which such a system of assessment and investigation of the convictions presented by the Greens, which would allow exemption for others other than Jehovah’s Witnesses, could work. That would be virtually impossible to implement and, in fact, even more problematic for the Constitution than the current situation we are in. A study of the strength and authenticity of the individual's convictions would involve various problems of respect for freedom of thought, conscience and religion, as Mr Laukkanen pointed out in his speech, among other things. It would be extremely problematic and even foreign to modern society that a decision by a public authority or a court should define the content, authenticity and strength of an individual's religious or other beliefs. Furthermore, there are no acceptable or non-discriminatory criteria to distinguish those exempted from those who would not benefit from the exemption. It is therefore only possible to introduce a stability investigation system in the case of seeking civil service in exceptional circumstances. However, the exemption legislation, as its name suggests, is intended for exceptional circumstances, and the same procedures would not be acceptable under normal conditions, which, fortunately, our republic is currently living in. Other possible solutions to the problems of the Liberation Act would also be practically impossible. The only other option would be fully voluntary military service. It would certainly destroy universal military service. The obligation is not in fact an obligation if there is no consequence of its breach. As Minister Niinistö quite rightly said earlier, ‘a prisoner of opinion’ is the term used by one international organisation, Amnesty International. No official body, such as the UN or the Council of Europe, regards Finnish total deputies as prisoners of conscience, because they have been specifically offered the possibility of conscientious objectors, i.e. civil service, for which they have then refused, which, according to the law, will then be punished. Here, too, Mr Laukkanen rightly expressed the convictions of Christians. It is right that there are many Christians who, for example, refer to the Ten Commandments — do not kill — feel that they cannot perform the armed service. That is a perfectly understandable conviction. There has been a very untenable situation in which we now live, that this group of people, for example, are unequaled in relation to Jehovah’s Witnesses who, on the basis of their convictions, experience the same. The defence of the country from the very foundations of the Constitution cannot always be mere military defence, and I therefore hope that civil service will be developed by the next government in a more secure direction, and that the Defence Forces will also provide a more forceful service to those conscripts to whom the armed service is not a matter of conviction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u96	One more Minister, two minutes from where he wants to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u97	Mr President! In short, a few comments. Furthermore, thank you for all your support for the legislative proposal beyond government-opposition limits. Representative Laiho started: civil service could indeed support society’s preparedness, but it would require significant development. Mr Räsänen and Mr Laukkanen, and to KD in general, I would like to express my thanks for the support for general military duty and for the need to understand the formation of a sufficient wartime force. Yes, Jehovah’s Witnesses have participated internationally in civil service, for example, in Austria, where there is a military system like the whole of Finland. Mr Laukkanen also spoke of conviction. Personally, I also appreciate the garrisons, the few garrisons who each year carry out unarmed military service. It already requires courage, so let us not forget this possibility of unarmed service when it comes to compulsory military service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u100	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u101	We will now resume the debate on the 4th item which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u102	Mr President! There has already been a good and well-founded debate in the plenary session on defence and the various forms of military service. In this context, I would also like to make my point briefly on the subject. As has been said, the cornerstone of Finnish defence is general military service, it has been historical and it must continue to be so. According to various measurements, the defence spirit has unfortunately deteriorated in recent years, and particular attention must be paid to defence and its various forms in the future. The threats have become diverse, and the world has by no means become a safe birdhouse, and this also applies to Finland. Mr President! In strengthening the will to defend the country, essential attention must be paid to equality, equality and non-discrimination in legislation. That, in my opinion, is what this bill is implementing and promoting. The presentation brings legislation to the standards of modern standards in that Jehovah’s Witnesses are also brought into line with other groups as regards military service. The conclusion of the public debate on the obligation of Jehovah’s Witnesses to arm themselves for years is therefore a positive one, and I believe that this will also contribute to the emphasis on the general will to defend the country, especially in terms of equality and equality. Nor is it in any way incompatible with the fact that every citizen's religious or ideological conviction should be taken seriously in defining the form of service. The development of unarmed or civilian service over the years should enable everyone to participate regardless of their own convictions, even though military service must remain by far the most important option in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u103	Mr President! Of course, equality always leaves us right from the Constitution. It is good to support the subject we are talking about, in exactly the same way as the speaker who has just spoken, and to support the proposal that is now on the table. At the same time, however, I would like to remind you of the fact that when we talk about the Defence Forces and the defence capability as a whole, there is also a very topical debate this autumn on the exercise policy report, which comes to Parliament, about the condition in which our conscripts are in. When we look at these statistics that have now come from recent years in relation to the physical condition of our Defence Forces and garrisons, it is quite clear that the results have virtually collapsed since the time when we still had the garrison in good overall condition. In other words, we are still in very good health, but at the same time we are also in worse health, which means that the average and then the actual work that will be done in the event of a possible crisis is in the face of very tough challenges. Mr President! The result of this debate is, of course, that this matter will still come to us in the Constitutional Committee, and we will certainly be working carefully there and assessing it, just like all the other proposals, from the point of view of the Finnish Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u104	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item in the order of business is 6. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u105	Mr President! It is a very pleasant task to present a new law. It proposes the adoption of a new law on the study health care of university students, which provides for the organisation, production and financing of the study health care of university students. The aim of this proposal is to secure the study health services of university students at national level, to improve the quality and availability of services. The key word is equality between students in our higher education system. In student health care, particular attention is paid to factors affecting the ability to study, in particular specific issues related to the life situation of young adults, but also to studies related to resources, health, learning skills, the study environment and community. Due to the specific nature of student health care, it is important that the services of university students are implemented in a harmonised manner at national level in the field of health care. The quality of services is ensured by the fact that the staff specialises in the life situation and health of students. This proposal and these principles will create equal services for all university students and reduce differences in well-being and health, above all now between university and university of applied sciences students, can be seen together, as a result of years of preparation, of the political debate involved and of the good cooperation of extensive lobbying. In this context, I would like to express my particularly warm thanks to the Finnish student organisation field and to the Foundation-based activities of the FSHS and its staff for the valuable cooperation and active presentation of this issue, which certainly contributed to the desire to identify the special knowledge of student health care on the side of this major social welfare reform as a specific issue, especially since its legitimacy as a separate solution is now based on bringing students on the same line at university level. Mr President! As with other residents, university students could continue to use general health services in the province. Freedom of choice and legislation in the field of social welfare and health care does not apply to student health care, but, of course, when students use general social and health care services in the province, freedom of choice can be used in the same way as other residents in the province. This change is intended to take place within the same time frame as the rest of the province-war reform since the beginning of the year2021. Secondary students in upper secondary school or vocational education receive student health care services arranged by their own province. Mr President! As I said earlier, polytechnic students would be included in the study health care provided by the Finnish School of Education (HS) through this bill. In practice, this means that the number of students covered by the FSHS services will more than double. This also, of course, means a considerable need for expansion from the point of view of the FSHS, including more premises and staff, of course. It is now expanding geographically to the localities where it has not been so far, and for this purpose, all the expansion of activities is covered by the budget of the State. The content of student health care services would continue to be defined in the Health Care Act and would be the same for all students. This legislation now provides, as it were, for a system rather than for the content of services. Student health care includes the promotion and monitoring of the health, safety and well-being of the entire student community, not only at individual level, but also at the Finnish student community. Student health care will continue to include basic health care and medical care services for each student. In addition, it includes early identification of the student’s special need for support or research, guidance on further studies or further care where necessary, as well as the treatment and statement required to guide him to psychotherapy. In particular, I stress the importance of a separate CSDS solution and, on the other hand, the importance of extending it to mental health issues, which are clearly highlighted, even in a worrying way, by the student population. Mr President! The attention of the system level is still within this legislation. According to the proposal, the Social Insurance Institution would be responsible for organising the study health care of university students at national level, not the future provinces, but Kela. This would be a new task for Kela, who, as a responsible organisation, would ensure adequate access and accessibility to the services of university students at national level. In addition, Kela will be left with the task of monitoring and evaluating the quality, effectiveness, costs, productivity and economics of the service. On the other hand, the FSHS would be the national provider of student health care services. As a service provider, FSHS would be responsible for functionality, resource management, development, adequacy of professional personnel, competence, access to services, accessibility, professional management and self-monitoring. Here, too, we are moving to the organiser-producer-based social welfare structure. As far as funding is concerned, it is essential to state that the costs would be borne by the state and by the students. The central government share would be 77 per cent and the students 23 per cent, and this ratio corresponds to the current student contribution rate. The student contribution would be covered by a compulsory health care fee for all university students. It would be defined annually by a regulation to cover that 23 % of the costs. According to the current estimate, in the student’s purse this would feel about EUR 77 per year in 2021 and would be collected in two instalments. In addition, it is essential that students should not be charged a visit fee for the use of the services provided by the FSHS. Central government funding would be channelled to Kela through the state budget, and the amount of eligible costs for the study health care of university students would be reviewed annually in connection with the state budget. Mr President! Finally, I feel that this proposal will guarantee all university students services that are organised and produced in a uniform manner at national level, and we will treat universities equally valuable in terms of the fact that students in both systems are covered by similar services and their availability and effectiveness. So with this solution, we offer equality. The Board considers that students' ability to study is best supported by the provision of services through a system and staff specialised in student health care. In the context of this reform, few have come to criticise the current work of the FSHS. On the contrary, the general broad political will has been associated with the equality of its activities also for university students. We believe and believe that this reform will have a positive impact, especially right now, on strengthening the study capacity of polytechnic students.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u106	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u107	Mr President! This is a happy occasion and a happy day, thanks to the government and thanks to the Minister. After years of war-wrestling, the status of the FSHS has now been secured and the students of universities of applied sciences have also been brought within the scope of the FSHS. After all, there has been constant concern and doubt about what the fate of the FSHS will be in this time of war. The FSH has a long history, don't you think? I believe that it has been established before the wars, in particular, in order to organise lung scans of students in the fight against tuberculosis, then genocide. As the Minister said, it is generally recognised that the FSHS is a very well-functioning system that enjoys the support of university students and has been strongly defended for years by student organisations. At the time of this debate on social security, it is good to see how the FSHS is a very comprehensive system, as is said at least in the USA, a health education system with modern health education, preventive services and well-functioning primary health care. The CSDS also makes effective use of modern digital technologies. FSHS is also a very cost-effective system, which means that students are also involved in the costs. It is also important for society to invest in the well-being of students and that health care is in order. In view of this further debate on health and health, the FSHS is, in fact, a model for the provinces in many ways for a good, health-promoting basic health care system. Of course, in this bill, as the Minister said, it is also very gratifying that after years of wishes, students of universities of applied sciences have also been included in the FSHS. This will bring all university students into a single service system. Therefore, this reform and the extension of the CSFS will not, of course, take place without further challenges, without additional financial costs, and it is great that the necessary funds have now been found for this important reform. In order to safeguard the role of the CSDS, as the Minister said, it has therefore been decided that: Kela is the provider of student health care services for university students, which in a way is a new type of task for Kela. Then, when the minister answers, it would be interesting to hear further assessments of what this means for Kela’s operations. There is also a need for clarity in student circles as to whether student fees are to be expected at least not to increase substantially at the moment, and the technique of collecting student fees is also of interest, that is to say, this health care fee event, as is currently the case with student unions or a completely separate fee. Mr President! Finally, it is to be hoped and I believe that this good reform will be dealt with quickly in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and that the bill will then be put into effect in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u108	President! This bill shows once again that this government is doing — previous governments have spoken. Even when the polytechnic network was created, demands were made that all university students should be brought to the same level in health care. For a long time it was argued that this kind of reform can not be carried out, as polytechnic students practice in different localities, and that practical implementation would be impossible. It is also wise to understand the reality that during the social and health reform, the social welfare reform, the social welfare reform, the health reform, the FSHS system will remain, for why fix things that are not broken. And for Mr. Puska: I also remember from my textbook that there were still those tuberculosis vaccinations and lungs at the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I have, at the outset, given the answers to the representatives of Kari, Räsänen, Mäkelä, Essayah, Wallinheimo, and then we will continue until then.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u110	Mr President! Yes, I must thank you when it is time to thank you, and here is the place to thank the Minister. It is truly wonderful that this separate issue of student health care is now finally getting right. This is definitely a good reform which the student movement has been pursuing for a long time and which has long been hoped for, and it is great that it is finally here. This increases the equality of university students and takes into account the low - threshold services and their importance, especially in the mental health sector where they are really important to students today. And, in particular, thank you for this abolition of visit fees, which lowers the threshold for seeking treatment. It's an important matter for students. But, like all major reforms, there are, of course, concerns about this, and one thing has been this recovery of health care contributions from student aid. Students have concerns as to whether this will increase such things, such as default marking and recoveries, which are a major problem for young people in Finland. I would like to hear the Minister's view on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u111	And the next of the Räsänens is Jonah Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u112	Mr President! On this point, you may very much like to thank the government for a good presentation, and it should be noted that the time has finally come — hopefully now — when this unequal situation in relation to student health care between polytechnics and university students ends. This is something I have been waiting for: since 2008, when I myself joined the student activities, the first and most important thing for polytechnic students was to be able to improve the quality and availability of their own health care services to match what university students have. It is a fine situation that, after all these years, there is at least the prospect that this situation will occur. I think it would be a good idea to thank everyone who has worked on this matter both for the student movement and elsewhere along the way. I am sure that the next step will be to look at this issue of membership. Now that the difference between the membership criteria for polytechnic and university students is eliminated, which is related to the need to be included in the upper secondary school bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u113	Mr President! To what has just been said, I would say that it should be removed from everyone, on the contrary. But this proposal is good and worthy of support. It is right that polytechnic students should have equal access to health care with university students. It would be better to ask why this is only now on the agenda and, of course, to continue the idea that what could be done to improve the situation of those studying for a profession. In this context, we must certainly mention to many politicians the educational promise campaign that has been remembered by many politicians and the collective images that have been distributed in the social media since those promises were not entirely fulfilled. In the run-up to the next election, many politicians may wonder which pictures to take along and what promises to make. Now, however, if this proposal goes through as it is, I myself will be able to go through 50% of the educational promises I have made, so I am very much in favour of that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u114	Mr President! During my first parliamentary term in 2003-2007, when Mrs Hyssälä was the minister, we from various parties welcomed Mr Samok, the representatives of universities of applied sciences, who expressed this concern that in any way it would be possible to obtain these same services as the FSHS has for university students. So here too we see that sometimes it takes a few parliamentary periods before things get right. Indeed, in this respect, we can also thank these student organisations for not wanting to argue with each other, but for wanting to take this matter in one direction in the best interests of all students. At the same time, I would have liked to have made sure from the Minister that I did not get the opportunity to hear from him at the beginning of his speech that, as far as this legislation is concerned, this is now separate from this social solution. If a social solution does not go well, what will happen with this legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u115	Mr President! I too would like to thank the Minister and the Government in particular for this good proposal. I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber is opposed to this, on the contrary, this is an extremely good reform. The situation has been absurd for students of universities of applied sciences, especially in cities where both universities and universities of applied sciences have been present: they have not had the right to use these services from the FSHS, and the services provided by municipalities have been what they are. But in this context, I would like to draw attention to the observation made in this proposal about the status of students with a vocational qualification following the reform. How does this change, and if not, is this possibly the next development?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I have also given my replies to the representatives of Vikman, Parviainen, Jarva and Savio. If you don't mind, let's take it all. Here we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u117	Mr President! University students have enjoyed the excellent services of FSHS since the 1950s. These services are now extended to polytechnic students. That is an excellent thing. The reform thus creates equal services and narrows welfare and health inequalities. I would draw attention to the fact that compulsory membership of student unions is often justified precisely by the collection of the contribution from the FSHS. With the reform before us, there is no longer any justification for restricting the freedom of association of university students, so I would like to ask the Minister: has there been any consideration in the government when this excellent bill was made that the next question should be that:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u118	Mr President! I agree with these praises and praises which have already come here before. This bill is a very good continuation of the improvements made during this period, such as the increase in the student grant for family students and the transfer of students to the general housing allowance. Here this is expanding, therefore geographically, even to places where there is currently no such service. The Student Unions also wanted to expand this towards specialist medical services such as gynecologists and dermatologists. Was such an extension considered, Minister, and is this possible in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u119	Mr President! It is difficult to disagree with this motion and the Chamber that there is a very good presentation at hand. When we remember what has been done about this since 2004 during the student influence period, we have been doing this with the student unions and the student unions. In Vaasa, I myself studied and was then in charge of social policy in the Student Union, and even then there was a strong common understanding that vocational high school students deserve to receive the services of the FSHS in the future. It is good that this can now finally be achieved under the centre-led government. Finally, I would have asked the Minister that, now that the mental health situation of young people and students has also arisen — today we may have too many problems on this side, to an increasing extent — the resources currently available to young students on the CSDS side and in general, to provide these services adequately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Savio, Laiho and Päivi Räsänen and then to the Minister for 3 minutes from the place they want.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u121	Mr President! I agree with the views expressed earlier here that this bill itself is very welcome. As has been pointed out here, student organisations have repeatedly for years expressed the hope that students of polytechnics will be brought into the home of the CSDS, on an equal footing with university students, and now this performance seems to be coming true — thanks to the government. In this regard, Mrs Essayah raised the question as to whether this bill was directly linked to the war. I personally interpret that it is not directly related to it, but it is a separate law, but now both of these, both a social act and this law, are meant to come into force in 2021, so in a certain way they are parallel. I would now like to ask the Minister — and I ask him: We've had a lot of speculation about whether or not the social media show is going to go through.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u122	Mr President! University students finally get to the same line in health care regardless of whether they are studying at a university or at a university of applied sciences. This is an excellent thing. The reform will reduce health inequalities between these students and also improve access to services. The major problem today is the growing mental health problems of young people and students. By addressing the mental health problems of students at an early stage, we can prevent them from becoming prolonged and difficult, and this will have significant human and economic consequences. The reform strengthens the important role of FSHS in promoting student health. The preventive services of the FSHS ensure students' ability to study through community and individual services. I am sure we all agree on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u123	Mr. Speaker! I would also like to extend warm thanks to the Minister and the Government for this proposal, which really improves the equality of students, university students. But the concern that has arisen in a number of opinions — I hope that the Minister will comment — is to provide adequate resources for the services provided by the Student Health Foundation. As the number of customers increases, it is assumed that the demand for services for polytechnic students will also increase compared to the current situation of services provided by municipalities, and I therefore ask whether the resources are sufficient to provide these important services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u124	And Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u125	Mr President! On behalf of the government, I am happy and very humble to welcome this preparation, especially because I feel that this legislation is based on a broad and strong parliamentary will for Parliament. Thank you for that. Now we are, as it were, near implementation. The law must be adopted by the Parliament, in the midst of the huge workload of the committee, and then we leave room for both Kela to prepare for the organiser's task and for the FSHS to play the role of the service provider, which is really expanding, as has been shown in many speeches. I will try to answer your questions as best I can within the timeframe. The student union membership fee, which has been raised here, is separate from the YTHS fee. There is only a tradition to collect them simultaneously, but their basis is different. This legislation does not therefore take a position on the so-called automation membership of the Student Unions. This is a matter for the Ministry of Education and Culture, and in this context we are now only regulating healthcare charges. They also raised questions about the level of charges or the risk of higher charges. The annual budget review point is that 23 % of the costs are borne by students, that it is based on the share paid by each student, and I believe that this funding model is also conducive to encouraging CSDS to provide services in an efficient and rational manner, so that the costs would not significantly increase from the expected EUR 77 for 21. I think Mr Räsänen asked a question about the demand for services. It is a legitimate concern, and at the same time I think it is better, however, that we get help for more students in basic services than, for example, in more burdensome and expensive specialised medical care services, for example, mental health issues. Otherwise, Mr Parviainen asked about special services, special services. As elsewhere in health care, we also assume that, for students, gynecologist services, for example, are special-level services and a similar health care service related to sexual and reproductive health can also be provided as part of basic-level services. In other words, the issue was on the table and was discussed, but the service was clearly shown as a priority of prevention and a basic level similar to the other basic services of the social centre for all citizens. Enlargement has also risen to the second stage. It may be that this is the next topic for discussion and, for example, the ministry officials have actively raised this issue. It was not on the table now, but it is inevitable that for secondary students this debate will continue. The legislation now directs their student health care services to the province, as well as the services of other citizens. I was also pleased that, in the debate at least, Mr Kari raised this particular aspect of mental health services, which is being highlighted in an unfortunate way. Finally, Mr President, I believe that Mr Mäkelä, who, even in a rather dramatic way, raised the pose of the representatives of the government in the name of combating cuts in education before the elections. One part was a performance in which at least I posed: the FSHS services will be extended to all polytechnic students and the equality of students will be increased. I am pleased to say that that picture did not go to waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, the half-hour allocated to this matter went to its second. The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u127	We will now resume the debate on the 5th item which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u128	Mr President! University students have been enjoying high-quality services provided by FSHS for decades, and now the excellent services of FSHS are being extended to polytechnic students. The reform creates equal services for all university students and improves access to services and narrows welfare and health differences between university and polytechnic students. Reform is long-awaited and long-awaited. For a very long time there has been extensive cooperation, and it is excellent that the government now takes this matter to the finish line with the broad support of Parliament. For my part, I have been taking this issue forward not only as a Member of Parliament but also as a student policy closer to a decade ago, when work has already been done on this issue on a broad front. It is excellent that progress is being made, and it is very much to be welcomed. Equality among students is the main theme of this bill. That is why I would like to point out in this context the fact that in the Student Unions the compulsory membership of students and the compulsory membership fee for the Student Union are often justified precisely by the collection of the FSHS fee in connection with the compulsory membership fee. Polytechnic students have not had a similar obligation to join their own student union. With the reform we are now discussing, there is no longer any justification for restricting the freedom of association of university students; after all, without compulsory membership, the services of the Finnish School of Applied Sciences will now be provided without compulsory membership for university students, i.e. through compulsory health insurance for all in the future, once this proposal has been adopted. Therefore, university and polytechnic students will be placed on an equal footing in health care services, on the same line. So I ask: should the students of higher education be placed on the same line and on an equal footing, also with regard to freedom of association? The Minister also stated in his presentation of the draft law that the key word ‘equal treatment of students’ had been the basis for the draft law. Hasn’t the sameword,‘equality’,‘comesto learnersandthefreedom of associationremovesthisrequired membership oftheSupremelyusedpaymentSHS? This criterion will therefore be removed when everyone becomes subject to a compulsory health charge, which is completely independent of compulsory membership. But I will conclude by saying that this bill itself, that the services of the FSHS are expanding to all university students, is absolutely excellent and to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u129	Mr President! Indeed, this bill is now expanding the services of the Student Health Foundation to cover also polytechnic students. After all, this now, in 21 C.E., eliminates the unequal situation we have had since the establishment of the university of applied sciences in the 1990s, i.e. polytechnic students have been in student health care and university students in the Student Health Foundation. Indeed, this debate has been taking place for more than ten years now, with generations of students and generations of decision-makers trying to find a solution that eliminates this inequality, which in itself is most evident in the availability and quality of services. It is great that we are finally taking the final step now that this legislation is also being implemented. After all, in 2011-2014, an experiment was organised to pilot the way in which these services are then suitable for university of applied sciences students and it was found in the experiment that students, when these services were available, were happy to use them. However, the experiment also found that if this health care fee is based solely on a voluntary basis, the amounts will be relatively small, so it is justified that students of universities of applied sciences also contribute to the costs of the FSHS in relation to this compulsory health care fee. Mr President! As far as the future is concerned, it is probably as many Members of Parliament have already said in this referral debate that this question of membership of the various student communities in relation to the membership of the Student Unions, which is currently compulsory for university students, in relation to the membership of polytechnic student boards, which is voluntary, should also be resolved in the future. This compulsory health contribution can also be collected without linking it to this membership fee. Then we ended up in a situation where this automation membership is extended to polytechnic students, or so that this is taken away from university students accordingly, that would be justifiable, as equality is not yet being achieved. In that respect, it is probably appropriate that either this government or the next government should consider how to proceed from this point of view. But, on the whole, Mr President, I hope that, regardless of the various reforms that are on the table here, this issue will now be brought to an end and that students of universities of applied sciences will be able to access the services of the Student Health Foundation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u130	Mr President! I must say that something good from the war front and also something very unanimous and something that has been studied and recognised and subsequently implemented, that is to say, a proposal which I am sure everyone here will be happy to welcome. The Minister presented this quite thoroughly and well and described the situations relating to the perspective of equality and relating to the prevention of certain health problems and the prevention of health inequalities. When those experiments were carried out in Lappeenranta and Seinäjoki, one interesting thing that came up from there was that polytechnics, when they were in this system, used more health services than students from the science schools. This, in a certain way, indicates that there will also be some differences in costs, and this was certainly due to the fact that health inequalities related to certain types of illnesses were visible between the two students in different types of higher education institutions. I hope that, once this mechanism is put in place, this good work on the FSHS side will also catch up with the health differences that have existed with polytechnics. There has been much talk here of equality and, for example, of this compulsory membership. In my opinion, the Minister replied well that this compulsory membership is not, in fact, this health charge. It has nothing to do with it; it is a separate matter and, when it is a separate matter, it should also be decided separately, because there is no justification for us having different practices between different university students. Another separate matter relates to the headings. When we graduate either from a vocationally oriented university to a higher university degree or from a university of science, a different title will follow. And that different title in working life leads employers in particular to slightly different ways, and it is not always understood that when the higher education degree has been completed it is in fact of equal value between the two educational systems. Perhaps one more thing to say about this: Besides, there is no reason for us to have very different systems in these schools. We have universities that have bought universities of applied sciences, we have mergers between universities of applied sciences and universities, and this integration has been strong in general. It would therefore be justified to consider that other legislation also treats students equally. But I do not mean that universities of applied sciences and universities should be combined, but that they should be kept separate because they have a different function and different core competences.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u131	Mr President! I agree with this from Mr Filatov's point of view that it would be very strange if students within the same group were treated in a very different way, so for this reason too it would be quite reasonable for us to go through the final differences in these legislation, both in the field of university law and in the field of polytechnic law. This is also supported by the fact that education policy has constantly gone in the direction of allowing closer cooperation between higher education institutions across this traditional dual model line, and it is a reasonably good solution, especially in a country such as Finland, where we have limited resources, when we always use those resources to achieve the best possible results. For this reason, too, a different law enforcement approach to the different ways they treat students is justifiable. I hope we get to this one day.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u132	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the matter will be suspended and resumed at today's sitting after the other items have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit set for it, then the next item on the agenda, 7. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u133	Mr President! The Government proposal under discussion concerns the amendment of the Electricity Market Act and certain related laws. This bill provides the basis for this so-called data hub and its establishment. Datahub aims to provide a central repository of data for approximately 3.5 million electricity users through which the retail electricity market will operate in this perspective from the spring of 2021. The basis for this data hub has been prepared since 2014. Then Fingrid, together with the TEM, has started to prepare for this, and then we have come to this approach. After all, Finland has been a pioneer in market competition for electricity. As I recall, as early as 95, the electricity market was opened up to competition, and then between 96 and 98 Finland was one of the first to allow competition. Electricity supply to distribution networks was also expanded by means of a data exchange model, and Finland introduced remote metering as a priority in 2009-2013. And at the moment, we are the world's leading player in Finland with regard to these remote indicators. In other words, this is like decentralised data transmission from one power market operator to another, and now it is intended to concentrate these on activities under Fingrid, which should then also be monitored by the Energy Agency. So now this is quite a leap, a technological leap, in the electricity market, that is to say, we are moving from a system that has served for more than 20 years to this data hub. The legislative project on datahub in electricity trade is part of the focus area of the Government Programme of Sipilä Bioeconomy and Clean Solutions. The project is one of the government's top projects, i.e. this project for carbon-free, clean, renewable energy cost-effectively, and is part of the implementation of the Government's energy and climate strategy for 2030. The Datahub reform is the implementation of the Government's energy and climate strategy and will contribute to smart grids and the development of electricity demand flexibilities, which will improve services and increase cost and energy efficiency. This is a major technological reform of the electricity market, with its impact on all electricity producers and retailers and consumers operating in distribution networks. Datahub will be a functionally critical service for the retail electricity market, which will also store and process a large number of customer personal data, business secrets and other commercially important information. Datahub's cyber risks have been recognised since the early stages of the preparation and have been carefully prepared in the preparation process to date. They will also be invested in the procurement of information systems. In the future, we will receive our own consumption data through the datahub service, and our electricity bills will also be based on these data. Datahubia can rightly be described as a service company for all Finns. For the background figures: We have 3.5 million customers here, electricity buyers, electricity users. We have about 80 system operators and about 100 electricity vendors. In other words, if people move from the area — about a million people move every year — it becomes changes, plus then about 200,000 people change electricity companies every year. So all this information will be behind this data hub. This is also the background to the fact that we are going to go behind the social security number so that we can distinguish, and, as I have just said, one critical factor is this gathering of information, and this really is what we are doing, and we have done, and we are preparing this security system for information risks. I hope that this project will be the subject of a different good debate in our Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and will then consult experts and take additional information.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u134	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Pirttilahti, for a good introduction. Unfortunately, the minister himself is not here. But this is indeed being discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and, as the representative said, this affects millions of Finns. In that sense, although this now sounds like a very technical project, such a data hub project, it is still a question of building a system that is very relevant in the same way as any information system project in which we Finns may not have been very successful recently. But the reason why I asked for the floor is mainly that, as Mr Pirttilahti has done, we have both done a great deal of work at Nordic level on these same electricity market issues in recent years. Of course, Sweden, Denmark and Norway are making their own decisions. In many countries we are ahead of us, and Sweden is also coming with us. In practice, I would have liked the Minister — he is not here right now — to see that, now that these information systems solutions are being made, we also have domestic suppliers on this side of the information system, that we may not be as old-fashioned as we are on the social side, for example, where we are, to be able to say that American software suppliers, information system suppliers, and the results have not always been very good. So, in that sense too, I hope that this is also a broad industrial policy issue, how to make an information system solution for so many million people, an electricity market solution, a data hub solution, by means of domestic forces.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u135	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 7/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-25-ps-89.u136	Mr President! From electrical markets to radiation. — In fact, this law concerns the implementation of the Directive and national legislation. We are talking about ionised radiation and non-ionizing radiation. As a whole, the purpose of the law is to protect human health and health against radiation damage and to prevent and reduce other adverse effects caused by radiation and thus to put the provisions of the radiation safety directive into force for this ionising radiation. This should in fact have been in force in February of this year, but the committee received this proposal from the government in April. And since it needed an opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the committee was ready already in the spring season, but now we have completed it as a whole when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had done its own checking. These issues on the national side are then this non-ionizing radiation. This overall clarifies the supervision of the authorities and emphasises the principle of risk-basedness and then makes certain clarifications as to what staff and training requirements are, that they are up-to-date. The law was well prepared, or we actually changed quite a few points from it, but that does not mean that there were major problems. Most of the amendments concerned the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and it was proposed to clarify the provisions on authorisation and the disclosure of sensitive information and the issues relating to the provision of information and the request for consent in relation to other medical exposures to a person, as well as the monitoring fees and the types of charges. The thoughts the government had remained with you, but they were somewhat refined. In addition to these clarifications from the Constitutional Committee, some clarifications were made, mainly on the wording of the articles and on the fact that there is a clear role to be played by professionals. The report on this law is unanimous.
