ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u2	Mr President! I present to Parliament the first amending budget for the year 18. We will be able to deal with this amending budget in strong economic prospects. According to the Ministry of Finance forecast, economic growth of 2.6% is forecast for this year, and next year the growth will continue at more than 2%. This is, of course, an excellent starting point. It is becoming stronger and stronger that it has not been a cyclical surge but a more permanent period of stronger growth. We must hope that the potential risk factors in the world will not be realised through trade wars or geopolitical conflicts, for example, which could lead to serious cracks in this area. At the moment, the world economy is projected to grow by up to 3.5 to 4 percentage points and the euro area will continue to grow by about two percentage points, and since Finland is an export-driven country and because about half of our foreign trade and exports to the euro area and Europe are directed towards the euro area, it is clear how important this is for Finland's well-being. The increase in the revenue estimate of the amending budget is reflected in the rise in VAT and car tax revenue in particular. The estimate of tax revenue will be increased by a total of EUR 172 million, and the increase in the emission allowance price estimate will increase emissions trading revenues by around EUR 90 million. This amending budget implements an arrangement whereby the Finnvera Group repays the refinancing loans received from the State prematurely. The budget balance for 18 will thus improve by around EUR 1.4 billion. This is due to the early repayment of Finnvera’s credit to the State. This will reduce the budgetary balance by EUR 300 million again in the coming years. I could say here that, at the same time as the Treasury, Finland's transition to a so-called two-way guarantee procedure in state loans is being prepared, which is today's way in the international financial markets, which at first costs up to about the same 1.3 billion that was now paid prematurely, but in the long term it will reduce our loan management costs when we move to a modern guarantee arrangement in these state loan applications. That is, in relation to the current state debt reduction, this 1.4 billion will be compensated by this arrangement when it is done in due course. The amending budget proposes an increase of EUR 381 million in appropriations and an increase in revenue of EUR 1.7 billion. The proposal will reduce the need for net borrowing from the state by 1.3 billion, and that in itself is of course good news. We in the government started with a debt of around EUR 7 billion or EUR 6 billion, and this year's budget has now been built on a debt of EUR 3 billion, and I hope that, when the accounts are drawn up for this year, this strong economic growth in which we are still living will actually weigh its debt on something other than this EUR 3 billion, and this is important to note. At the same time, however, I would point out that, when we are still at the top of the strongest economic growth or perhaps the very top of it, we are still in debt so much. That is why there is still no famous allocation, and I would also like to say that the financial additions to this amending budget have been made within the framework of the budgeted and planned allocation that has already been made in Smolna three years ago as the basis of the government's economic policy programme. The so-called non-divided amending budget will leave around EUR 120 million in the autumn's additional budget. The central objective of this amending budget is the same as that of our work, which is to strengthen employment. Government action is based on the priority given to work and work. Only a high, 75% Nordic level of employment will guarantee our sustainable well-being. In particular, we need this high Nordic level in the 20th century, when the costs and demand for care and services resulting from our ageing will increase considerably. We are now in the process of reaching even the government's hard employment target of 72% during this term of government. Now we've reached 71%. The trend of the unemployment rate fell to 8 per cent in April, and of course we are all happy about this — and I am sure of it — in this Chamber. Compared to the beginning of the government term, the number of employed persons is now 90,000 higher than at the time of the start. But despite the good news, we have heard disturbing messages from entrepreneurs and other employers. It is difficult to find factors for open jobs, which are tens of thousands of jobs, although employment expectations of Finnish enterprises were at their highest in January 2011. As many as 37 per cent of the enterprises that applied for employment had experienced problems with filling jobs at national level, i.e. nearly 40 per cent. That is why this is a matter of particular concern to the government. In this amending budget, the Government will allocate EUR 60 million — i.e. EUR 60 million — to training and employment measures in order to better address vacancies and job seekers. An amount of EUR 16 million will be allocated to vocational training to the pilot project, which will set out a model for specific training to facilitate exchanges in the field. Training will also be targeted at strengthening skills that rely on weak basic skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u7	This speech by the Minister for Finance may give rise to a small debate, we will take it. This is what we do. — First speech, Mr Viitanen, to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u8	Mr President! Minister of Finance Orpo, you told us about the improved economic figures. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that today, unfortunately, growth does not belong to everyone. We Social Democrats are now recalling, for example, that public workers are already being cut back again as a result of government action, for example, on holiday money in the coming summer. Again, I regret to say that this is the kind of value choices the government makes. President! The second problem is this social security, a surprise, and that also means that, in this amending budget, you are adding money to these rather questionable pilots, in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to know how, Mr Orpo, you now see this major problem in terms of the financing of social services in general, since the Constitutional Committee has already stated that this government model does not guarantee the adequacy of basic services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u9	Mr President! Indeed, growth rates seem to be more positive than before. This is a good thing, which continues to support consumer confidence, thereby generating tax revenue in the form of VAT, in particular. If you want to look for some weak points in the future, in order to increase economic growth, employment and trust in particular, we will need more signs and actions to improve productivity in the future. In the coming parliamentary term, productivity will be the one that will then continue to guarantee economic growth. With regard to all the positive aspects, which are stated here in the budget increase, the government should pay particular attention to those factors which will enable this productivity to be improved, which will enable economic growth and high employment, in terms of the budget and the future of the next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u10	Mr President! This Government's draft amending budget estimates that emissions trading revenues will amount to 90 million more than budgeted revenue. I myself tabled an amending budget initiative in which I propose that increased emissions trading revenues be allocated to development cooperation. The reason is, of course, that the international profile of Finland has for a long time been the assumption of global responsibility. The cuts made by this government to development cooperation and climate finance are contrary to our international objectives and to the objectives that Finland has committed itself to, such as the Paris Climate Agreement, such as the 2030 Agenda. We must now ensure that Finland does not slip any further from the 0.7% target recorded in the Government Programme. Will you, Minister of Finance, catch up with this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u11	President! In view of the starting point, the government's employment policy has been a success story. It has also been in international comparisons. This additional budget has specific measures, pilots specifically for the most vulnerable, for those who have been absent from the labour market for a long time, for those who change the sector and so on. Then there is the digital age skills programme, which makes use of liberal education and the third sector. My question is this: would it be possible in the future to make greater use of the third sector and liberal education to help the long-term unemployed in a difficult employment situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u12	Mr President! Mr Yanar raised the issue of development cooperation money, and this is an important issue. However, EUR 8.7 million has been earmarked in this amending budget for increasing development cooperation funds, so this information is worth looking at from there. In fact, with regard to development cooperation funds, the question to the government is whether this money is to be spent on reconstruction in Iraq, humanitarian aid, for example, and, if so, whether it is linked in any way to the development of returns. Finland does not have a bilateral return agreement with Iraq, which is why these returns have been somewhat delayed. So what is the situation in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u13	Mr President! The European Central Bank has been keeping interest rates very low in the euro area for about six years with a massive loan purchase programme. Of course, it has meant economic growth, at least recently, but at the same time it has brought the Central Bank a burden of almost EUR 2500 billion. And now the situation is that the ECB will soon have to abandon this purchase programme. How do you estimate, Minister Orpo, whether interest rates will also rise in Finland, as the experts warn you, and if interest rates rise by two or three percentage points, for example, what impact will it have on households, the state, businesses, municipalities in Finland — and employment and our prospects in general?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u14	Mr President! Minister Orpo is quite right that the growth of the economy has been brought about at about the rate it is growing at the global level in the euro area. Nothing extra good about this has been created by Finland, but it is good that we have been able to absorb international growth. These tax estimates, which have increased in terms of car tax and VAT, are of course positive, tell us something about consumer demand. But it must be wondered that the income tax estimate has not been corrected, and this may be due to what has happened in the kiky agreement, for example, when public employees are cut off on holiday money and thus purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u17	Mr President! Of course, every inch of what is being put into education is a very good thing, but perhaps we would have expected the government to put something in early childhood education and perhaps withdraw these disadvantages to quality, which the government has done in the past by allowing larger groups for children who have been three years old and then restricting this subjective day care right. It would have been a good opportunity to intervene now. Mr President! The bigger question is, of course, this funding for regional and social reform, and I would like to continue, once again, to raise the concerns of Uusimaa. On the day that the province starts, we will have a financial deficit of between EUR 300 million and EUR 400 million. There is no right to tax, there is no right to borrow, so this is really a real worry, and I hope that somehow the government will be able to respond to this distress call. Lapland is the second province that suffers most from these reforms. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u18	Mr President! It is certainly good to bear in mind the overall picture of central government finances, and in that sense the money made available for debt repayments in the event of a boom is certainly well-targeted. Many here have highlighted the employment situation. Among other things, in my own region, Upper Savo, labour shortages are currently a harsh fact. In that sense, one must only hope that these various specific measures will actually be effective and that this cyclical situation will not be allowed to slip out of hand. In conclusion, however, I would also like to draw attention to the situation of these freedom of choice pilots, when we are currently in the middle of the process of legislation and this whole reform of social welfare. After all, we do not know what it will become. Is it reasonable now to put tens of millions in these situations, over hundreds of millions? These pilots still give the wrong impression at their worst, because they are extra money. They are not what will be done in the future according to this model,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u19	Mr President! Here we have talked about these pilots on the social side and how they view our constitution. But in fact, as glad as I am that there will be more input from the labour force, we are in a somewhat similar situation with regard to the growth service pilots. It has been estimated that the service needs assessment could be delegated to a private service provider. However, the Growth Services Act in this house, for example, says that the service needs assessment is an official task and therefore remains on the provincial side. In other words, I would like to see that, before we start implementing this issue, we see whether such transfers can be made, and that we should be more prepared for that legislation and for the positions of the Constitution. The second point relates to the fact that this pilot is going to spend a great deal of money on a couple of years' information systems, in fact for millions of miles. If we relate that money, which is used alone to open the career system to the private sector, it will cost EUR 3 million,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u20	Mr. Speaker! There has really been a great turnaround in the economy. The economy runs like Pendolino, like the upcoming one-hour train from Turku to Helsinki, very strongly. [Laughter — intermediate calls] There are good individual increases in this amending budget in terms of employment. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it contains this 25 million refund of the energy tax on last year's crop damage. Unfortunately, it seems that the drought is bringing a new situation before us, and that too is something we must respond to.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u21	Mr President! Of course, this government has had a margin for division during this parliamentary term, but it has been used mainly for tax reductions favouring those on good income. Here, too, the allocation to the amending budget has been found for these so-called so-called pilot projects, to which an additional EUR 100 million will now be allocated, which is also indicative of the future as far as the functioning and price of this model of social security is concerned. In fact, at this stage, it would be interesting to hear the Minister of Finance's comments in relation to the estimates that have now been made on the social welfare system from the point of view of public finances. Both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Finance have estimated that funding for the regions is too low, so this spending limit is too tight. In addition, the Committee on Budgets, in particular in its own opinion, is very critical of the potential for savings under this system of freedom of choice, which on the contrary warns that it may even increase costs for several billions in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u22	President! The future is in our own hands, isn't it? If we only make the right decisions, then this growth in the national economy will continue and the employment rate will increase. If we look at these support feet of the national economy, the central government finances are in good shape at the moment, the debt ratio is falling somewhere, the finances of municipalities have improved, the balance sheets of limited companies and partnerships have been strengthened. But what has brought it about? It is the indebtedness of consumers, the indebtedness of households. It is at a worrying level and comes from that side of the mortgages. Then what is being done in this additional budget to get a skilled workforce, I would say that the 60 million package for OKM, TEM and STM is still too small. We have a huge challenge ahead of us to train a million Finns. The actors must be brought together and more adult education and retraining. Finally, on this issue of Finnish Malmi Processing: its capitalisation is good,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u23	At this stage of the debate, I will give Mr Aalto the answer and then Minister Vehviläinen the answer, and then we will continue the debate for a while, and then Grahn-Laasonen and perhaps some other minister. Here we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u24	Mr President! Government economic policy has been and is still very selective today. It has been seen in this context. But I would like to ask about this first-hand legislation: if we were to take a choice test, let alone consider the financing of these pilots in the amending budget, is it not part of good legislation that the legislation should be ready first? Secondly, are you committed to the UN's sustainable development objectives, to the Paris climate agreement and to solving the root causes of refugeeism, to reducing those people from their homes and from their countries of origin? If so, I hope that emissions trading revenues will be allocated to development cooperation and climate finance, because during the last parliamentary term this emissions trading compensation came from the fact that when budget funding is reduced, this climate finance will be managed through emissions auction revenues. At that time, there was a fear that at some point cash flows would go away and budget funding would no longer help,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u25	Minister Vehviläinen. I don't know if two minutes would be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u26	Mr President! First of all, on this preparation for social and regional reform and on how implementation activities have been carried out in this area since the beginning of 2017: It is, of course, linked to the fact that the Constitution provides the Government with an opportunity to develop and take forward matters in various areas of government, and this is also supported by the Constitutional Statute. That's pretty accurate. As far as funding is concerned, every euro spent on 2017, 2018, 2019 budgets either as spending limits reservations or as budget proposals or in this amending budget procedure is approved by this house, which is where they all pass through. Finally, with regard to these pilots, I do not think it is a good thing that these pilots are being called into question. A year ago, in connection with the opinion on freedom of choice, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that they should also be written into the law and only then can the money be used. We have had an application for these pilots early in the year, and all the provinces applied for pilots, and a conditional decision has been taken on ten in order to allocate 99 million of them. Of course, they cannot start until the freedom of choice law has been dealt with in this house. As far as this opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on funding and the various details is concerned, it is so well known that, after last Friday, we and our officials in the government have been going through it very carefully and, on the basis of Mr PeV's opinion, the amendments are being prepared here all the time. As regards Mr Nylander’s question about Uusimaa — although he left here — I would say that there has been a big opportunity today between the province of Uusimaa and the eight ministries, and we are well aware of the views here on the adequacy of funding. We took a position on them, among other things, in the Government spending limits debate,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u27	Contrary to what was previously agreed, I will now give the floor to Minister Orpo. Two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u28	Mr President! Here comes the kiky deal again. Hopefully, as many people as possible will have the opportunity to read today’s Economic Messages — if I remember correctly the magazine. It was estimated by 50 economists that the impact of kiky on employment and growth in Finland has been significant or very significant. Well, that's all I got then. In other words, the fact that our exports have taken off and it has been an essential engine for our growth, this kiky agreement was of great importance. It has played a very important role, and there is no denying it. I think that Mr Vehviläinen responded very well to this pilot question, but what is essential is that no euro leaves until the laws have been adopted — has not left or left until the laws have been adopted. However, since projects are wanted to start when laws have been passed and pilots are an essential part of the project, that is why these forward-looking decisions are already being taken. Well, then, if we end up in something else, that money won't go away. Development cooperation and emissions trading revenues: I believe that we should have a longer-term objective, but we are now following the government programme. We have made investments within its margin, as in this amending budget, for example, on the development cooperation side, for example, 7.5 million in order to improve the situation in Iraq. It could also have an incentive effect on increased cooperation, including on asylum seekers' return. There were a lot of questions here, but I hope I will have the opportunity to answer them later during the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u29	Mr President! Minister Vehviläinen said that he did not like the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on pilots. What matters now is not when the money moves, but when you have made a decision without the law on which it rests. That is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to in last week's opinion, and, equally, this was not even the first time, but already last year, last summer, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs prohibited you from launching these pilots. But what did you do? You first split 100 million on 15 May, and now we are talking about a new 100 million. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is also supported by Professor Pauli Rautiainen of the University of Tampere, who even raises the possibility of examining the division of May as a matter of ministerial responsibility under Article 115 of the Constitution. Well, this is all we need to know about the lawfulness of the Minister's actions. Question to you,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u30	Mr President! There has been a good turnaround in the economy: the economy is growing, employment is improving and unemployment is making things easier. But at the same time companies around Finland are telling Kainuu, Satakunta, Lapland that there are problems with the availability of labour. And at the same time, adult Pisa research data also show that Finns have shortcomings in many basic skills. This amending budget has significant and strong investments in education and skills, and I understand that Mrs Niinistö is not here to listen to this. But I still ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen, when there is a lot of investment in your sector in order to find skilled factors, to be able to update skills, to mobilise the Digital Age Skills pilot: what is the timetable for their introduction? Why don't you open up a little bit more?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u31	Mr President! I understand that the opposition only wants to confuse the soup, but the government's objective is to complete it and these pilots are also needed for it. As far as this amending budget is concerned, I believe, unlike Mr Vähämäki, that measures to improve the availability of highly skilled labour — EUR 60 million, a significant sum — and EUR 29 million for public and business services, including EUR 5 million to support those who are hard-to-work. I would like to ask the Minister for Employment what this EUR 5 million will achieve in practice if you can answer it more specifically. Mr Viitanen pointed out here that growth does not belong to everyone. I do not know how the Social Democrats understand its ‘all’,but if the number of unemployed persons has fallen by 84,000,as a result of the most recent data,the And once it has been said about the global economy that it has helped us, since the financial crisis, since 2010, the world economy and the euro area have been tightening up for several years but only now
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u32	Mr President! I consider these additions to the various trainings that have been shown in this amending budget to be excellent, and of course I think it is excellent that the government realises this problem, which we have, that about a million Finns have poor digital skills or that some people have almost no, and at the same time the basic skills need to be raised by a very large number of Finns. It is now being addressed. Of course, it can be said that there should always be more money, but these are fundamental issues if we want to keep everyone involved in this society and combat inequality. The good thing is, of course, that the operating conditions for domestic food production are safeguarded and money is added to it. And routes are being set up around Finland and new investments are being made possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u33	Irade the Talman! Minister Orpo highlighted the estimated impact of the kiky agreement. The same study also asked whether the Kiki agreement had made it difficult to make the necessary labour reforms, and twice as many economists agreed with this argument as they disagreed with. In other words, they generally felt that it has made it difficult to make the necessary reforms, and it is of course worrying in a situation where Finland's employment development is still lagging behind the development of our control countries. Given that this upturn is not going on indefinitely, this issue should be addressed. Local agreements should be made possible, family leave should be reformed, labour availability should be abolished. Is such reforms perhaps coming under this government, or should we wait for the next reign?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u34	One last response to Mr Tolppanen, then the ministers, and let us move on from Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u35	Mr President! I am sure, on this point, that I should like to congratulate the government, if this is the case, that the Kiki agreement has made our economy grow, that the Kiki agreement has caused the world economy to recover — perhaps it has caused us to recover a little too. [ Crowd of the Group of the Coalition Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u36	Mr President! I am very glad that this amending budget has such a strong emphasis on knowledge and education. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u37	I did not notice to say a minute to Mr Grahn-Laasonen, but you were creatively using your own judgment and went a little longer than the minute I thought. This time also for Lindström 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u38	Mr President! Yeah, we do have a special situation. Has there ever been a situation in our history like today that we have more job vacancies than ever before and, at the same time, hard unemployment and these two things are not meeting each other? That's why the government has taken action. Not all the problems will be solved, of course not, by the rapid training instruments that Mr Grahn-Laasonen mentioned there. These are, of course, one tool. We know the problems, we know the problems of mobility, housing, but the company visits I have been to actually give feedback that there will be no skilled labour, but there is also such feedback that there is no interest in any sector in which we have a problem within the sector. I have appealed to companies to see if you should market your own business. For example, the metal industry: it is not just hanging around in dirty overalls today; it is a very high level of expertise, and it would probably be wise to market this. Then this kind of thinking that we have men and women's work: it's old-fashioned. I encourage women, among other things, to work in the metal industry and men to work in the nursing sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u41	Mr President! Mr Orpo, you have just referred to that business case, and it is probably this kind of economist machine.fi, on the basis of which this case has been made to economic life. I understand that you said that 50 economists believe that this kiky agreement has strengthened competitiveness. If that is what you said, it means in practice that your argument is not true, because 35 economists have answered this question in the first place, and less than half of them believe that this argument is not true. So you gave false testimony if this is true.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u42	Minister Orpo, 1 minute, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u43	Mr President! I apologise if it was imprecise, but it was asked of about 50 people, so I understood, but the percentage was, as I recall, more than half who had said that it had had a very large impact on this economic growth, had a significant impact on economic growth. I think that the message I gave you about it was essential: it had a significant impact on economic growth, on employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u44	One more response, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u45	Mr President! It must therefore be noted that 35 economists answered that question, 63% of whom felt that they had had a significant or substantial impact. The rest disagreed on this point. But, Minister Orpo, you are now quite strongly rejecting these middle-class people who are building this Finnish society. You are taking the kiky money from them, from the police, nurses, from these people who work hard in Finnish society. This is completely incomprehensible and strange that you, as Chairman of the Coalition Party, as Minister of Finance, are taking matters forward in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u46	The last response to this is the one per cent debate for Mr Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u47	I think that you, too, have given the wrong impression of what I have been doing a little unfairly. Firstly, on the labour market, the public side also made a decision, a pay settlement which was positive. In addition, the government has taken care by its own decisions to ensure that purchasing power has also improved or, at least, remained at the current level for middle-income, low-income earners. In addition, 90,000 Finns have received jobs, which significantly improves the purchasing power of many people and families, households. Our view is completely different. People have hope and faith in the future. I cannot understand why you use the language you just used.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u48	Mr President! It surprises the SDP’s criticism of this competitiveness pact. I think that you should be very pleased with these economists' estimates, because, at least in my memory, only the Left Alliance here has opposed the Competitiveness Pact — that is to say, the Competitiveness Pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u51	Mr President! The world economy grew during the last parliamentary term, but we did not reach it. Now in this parliamentary term we have improved our competitiveness in many ways and we have managed to catch up to this growth, which is now reflected in the growth of Finland's economy, jobs being created, indebtedness being brought under control. And yes, one of the key factors here is this competitiveness pact in which the workers met, took part in the voluntary work, and it has a hard record of more than 90,000 jobs. It's not all because of the kiky.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u54	Mr President! A clear answer to Mr Satonen and Mr Kaikkonen: the Social Democrats have not supported an operation that was carried out solely for the hard-working workers in the public sector. You forced these employees' organisations to accept such a model, which led to the cutting of holiday money from these industrious public sector workers, especially women-dominated sectors. That's what I'm really sorry about. Then I would like to say in relation to growth in relation to that kiky agreement: these same 45 economists assessed the kiky agreement in relation to economic growth and said, therefore, 48% only thought that it had an impact on economic growth. The majority of these economists felt that economic growth was not affected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u55	Mr President! That is a great thing that the government has now found 60 million in this amending budget, which wants to invest in knowledge. But when you look at this whole period of policy and the kind of competitiveness policy that has been done, you also understand why the Left Alliance has come to a completely different analysis and solution than the government when it comes to what kind of solutions a country like Finland can do. So here we have a labour market agreement for wage reductions, which is called a competitiveness pact, at the same time as there is a major cut in skills, that is, education and innovation. Such solutions may warm up in the short term, but in the long term there is absolutely no policy that a country such as Finland will be able to cope with in the future. This is also the reason why the left-wing alliance, as the only party, consistently exists in Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u56	President! Sometimes people ask if it's worth the sacrifice. With regard to the Kiki agreement, we can say that it is worth making a sacrifice. [ Hustles from the left] I went to Germany and I was saddened to say that, unfortunately, youth unemployment remains at a high level, even though unemployment has otherwise fallen. However, the additional budget now provides specific measures and pilots to eradicate youth unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u57	Mr President! Whether or not it is the result of the Competitiveness Pact, the fact is that economic development has been good in recent years and public finances have improved considerably. I believe that progress has also been made in improving competitiveness. I think all of this is really positive news, isn't it? Now that the economy is running, employment has also been favourable. As has been clearly stated in several speeches, unemployment has decreased. But we cannot be confident that today's economic growth will continue to hit the spot. Finland’s low birth rates, while the population is ageing, pose major challenges in the long term. Some estimates suggest that central government debt will therefore increase again in 25 and beyond. Getting the economy on a solid footing would require a much higher employment rate than we currently have,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u58	Mr President! These percentages were discussed in relation to this business case, and I raised this point: ‘The majority of economicists see a significant improvement in the competitiveness of the cost of Finland’s contract. 63% of economists agree with this claim or strongly agree with it. There are 14% uncertainties and 8% disagreements. None of the respondents strongly disagree with this claim.” It was a question of improving cost competitiveness. Mr President! I would like to thank the government for the investment in education and training, especially in conversion training, because labour shortages are currently affecting areas where there should be no shortage of labour, e.g. Eastern Finland. Now I ask the Minister for Education or the Minister for Employment: will our conversion training now respond flexibly so that companies can train that staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u59	Mr President! I would like to raise the issue of agriculture: we cannot rely on imported food in the future. We must be self-sufficient in that regard. With Brexit in mind, the EU will adjust its expenditure by cutting agricultural subsidies in its Member States, among other things, and, unfortunately, Finland will be at the forefront of the cuts. It is true that 25 million have come to farmers affected by harvest conditions with this amending budget, and that is a good thing. That's what I want to thank you for. But when you look at the proposal of 30.10, i.e. rural development, you can see that there is nothing but a line. Agriculture needs to anticipate things, and if we look at food production, we have hundreds of thousands of jobs. The question is: for many years now, agriculture has not been very productive because farmers have had to struggle with many things,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u60	Mr President! I do understand the strength of the opposition, particularly the left-wing opposition, at the moment. It's almost as if summer fatigue has hit on you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u61	Mr President! Last autumn, when the budget for this year was drawn up in this Chamber, the whole House was concerned about the resources for internal security. Police, Customs, Border Guard, fire and rescue services and emergency services were on the lips of almost every Member of Parliament in this Chamber. There was also the fact that the resources of the internal security actors were extremely scarce. Today we have praised the amending budget, which certainly also contains good things, but in one point, police action and internal security on a wider scale, Section 26, there are only two thirds of the draft amending budget with such wage adjustments and one third with much smaller scale. The Minister of the Interior, Mr. Mykkänen, has already left. I would have asked the Minister for the Interior whether the Ministry of Finance did not also hear any suggestions from the Ministry of the Interior about raising the resources of internal security operators, or whether the red pen of the Ministry of Finance went over this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u62	Mr President! Yes, cooking soup is like Agatha Christie’s documentary “Cook Disappearing”. Do you have a chef missing, good government? Now you have given the bucket to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I ask you when, among other things, we are correcting the financial law, whether we have a spike open. Mr President! Pilots are indeed in progress, and it is a wonderful piece of legislation that money is given first and only then will the law come into force. All in all, how much is still being sacrificed for the pilots later? Mr President! The Military Accidents Act is something we have discussed here in Parliament. I have also made a bill on it, and I ask you, Mr Orpo: at what point is this law that is currently affecting the Finnish garrison, is it coming? Persons in crisis management, if injured or death occurs, are entitled to special compensation, but neither the Finnish military officer nor the woman who carries out voluntary military service are entitled to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u63	Mr President! With regard to the competitiveness pact, I would like to emphasise in this debate that it is an excellent thing in such a way that it was possible to agree to make decisions which also met employees' organisations and to give them full credit for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u66	Mr President! In the course of this term of government, when you think of where you started, what kind of economic situation, what kind of unemployment situation you started out with, the measures that the government has taken deserve praise, and that is, of course, one of the agreements on competitiveness, for which the labour market organisations deserve thanks. There's been so many twists here about those holiday money cuts, but this government hasn't cut anyone's holiday money. Look at whose names are under there in the competitiveness pact. That's where you'll find the ones who made that decision for the holiday money cut. The government is showing a great deal of sensitivity and time living in this additional budget, too, because now money is being added to the availability of skilled labour, conversion training, and labour company services. Now the skills of nearly 100,000 people who have been employed have met the needs of working life and have been easy to employ. There is now a need for specific measures, and that is what the government is doing in this additional budget, and that is what it is demonstrating.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u67	Mr President! Yes, the fact is what EK CEO Jyri Häkämies admitted in that recent interview, in which he stated that the government forced this kiky agreement to enter into force in relation to the cut in holiday money. It is therefore a statement made by the employer in this regard. But I would like to say, Minister Orpo, that in February this year Tehy magazine wrote that every nurse in Tehy, a physiotherapist and so on, hardworking people are going to spend 600 euros a year because you decided, as Jyri Häkämies confirmed, to cut the holiday money. You made me cut my vacation money. This is EUR 700 million a year for these people out of money. Do you regard yourself as the representative of these people in the right way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u68	Mr President! Congressman Jokinen, I'm sure you can't find any names, but it could be like the song says, "Small paper." Yes, there was political pressure on the social partners, and the EK insisted on taking this forward. If you remember what Häkämies said: the trade union movement was down, why didn't we finish it? That meant that the demonstration was for the right-wing political front, should have been crushed even more. But there is no point in arguing that this political pressure has not caused the holiday money to be cut. It would be only comforting and good to see — when economic development has been positive — and we should be able to see that public holiday money should be returned.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, not on behalf of Mrs Myllykoski, but on the basis of an earlier speech, I would like to say that when I give the reply, in a way, to the answers that are in line — when it is asked to reply to the intervention of another representative — then the person to whom I give the reply and who hastens to speak should remain on the subject. I hope that this principle will be adhered to as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u70	Mr President! Also referring to the lyricist and band that I appreciated from the direction of Tampere: “Now the backpacked jupsetriems. “ [Department : Lake Ylöjärvi! ] With regard to the question of access, which was raised here again, for the fourth time, I say: this government does not remove the question of access to foreign labour. What a future government does is its responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u71	Mr President! I cannot stand to say to that competitiveness pact that it is not signed by the chairman of the SDP, Rönnholm, but by the party secretary. I can say with a good conscience that if the Social Democrats had been responsible for the government, the low-paid women would not have been deprived of 400 to 500 euros a month by cutting holiday money. That's just the way it is. And here is also the difference between the parties,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u74	Well, it took me a minute and a half. — At this stage of the debate, I will give answers to the representatives of Vehkaperä, Meri, Uotila and Jarva, and then we will see what happens. The idea was to move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u75	Mr President! The medicines of Prime Minister Sipilä's government for promoting economic growth and employment and ending debt have been the right ones. They need to be proved and verified once again here in Parliament. The targeted medicines now coming into the amending budget aim to ensure that this growth continues from now on. Employment would continue to be a plus, and people would also receive better social protection, so that we would have more to share in the years to come. That is why I am delighted that there is money coming in for education and employment. But I think it is particularly important that investments of several million euros have also been found in basic infrastructure management and the development of the network of transport routes, which are putting this growth and development into transport in regions and workplaces, in companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u76	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs specifically drew attention in these pilots to the fact that we have already stated certain criteria in the opinion last summer and that they still do not exist there. This is, of course, quite worrying if we do not read the opinions of the Constitutional Committee so that they come there for another time on the same matter. And, of course, the problem is that money is first allocated, but the law is not yet known. As far as I know, there is still a principle of legality in Finland, so hopefully we will not move on to the fact that laws will be laid down when we are able to do so. But then I would have said this or actually asked if there was going to be additional funding for Kela. I am an official of the Social Insurance Institution and I heard yesterday that there is an ever-increasing need for staff. For example, the active model has become a huge additional need for staff. The active model was supposed to employ people. I hope it is not the intention that it only employs the officials of the Social Insurance Institution. Is there any more money coming in?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u77	Mr President! This is a pretty serious place when assessing the importance of the competitiveness agreement for Finland’s future competitiveness. If government parties really believe that such measures, such as cutting holiday money, extending working time, transferring social security contributions from employers to employees, are the means by which Finnish working life and Finnish competitiveness will be improved, then the voters should be quite vigilant when voting for the parties in the next election, because it has to be concluded that these parties will continue to present such powerful means. The left-wing alliance is a different option. It is that Finland’s competitiveness in the longer term and also the challenges of the sustainability gap are addressed by investing in high-quality work, high-quality products, research, education and knowledge and thus in the overall competitiveness that will come. It is not through underpaid employment, an extension of working hours, nor is it possible to humiliate employees by humiliating Finnish competitiveness over the longer term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to give the floor to Mr Jokinen and Mr Jarva and then move on to those of the ministers. After the speeches by Mr Jokisen and Mr Jarva have been made, all those who asked for a reply have received them at least once. If this procedure were to be satisfied at this stage, we would then move on to the list of speakers and then move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u79	Mr President! That criticism of the opposition is dishonest in that sense when it is directed at the government parties with regard to this holiday money, because the government parties have not concluded any agreement. In contract law, the contract is concluded by those whose names are listed below. Take a look at the competitiveness pact, whose names are below, and if there is cause for criticism, show that criticism to those who have concluded it, and possibly to the political groups that have managed and controlled the negotiating climate in the trade union elections. There's no government party names under there. But I would also like to draw attention to this responsible economic policy. The Minister of Finance, Orpo, is doing a very good job in economic policy. This is seen, among other things, by the fact that this amending budget is now reducing the net borrowing of central government by EUR 1.3 billion. That's a lot of money. The debt of the future will be reduced again, and the work will continue from now on, that is to say, we will move towards a better time when the debt is broken down.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u80	Mr President! Indeed, Finland has now achieved economic growth with the rest of the world. Last season, this growth was already very strong in the rest of the world, but Finland was unable to participate in it. We did not have the means, the market did not work, and in this period these changes were brought about. Yes, the Kiky Agreement has a significant impact on it. It has already been mentioned who has responded to this agreement and who has laid down the means. And it has to be corrected once again that it has been said, at least at the mouth of Prime Minister Sipilä, that his wish was precisely to extend working time, and certainly not to cut the holiday money. This has been decided by the social partners themselves. And it is also good to know and be aware that tax reductions have also been able to offset these effects, these cuts in kiky and holiday money, particularly in public, women-dominated sectors, which were affected by this holiday allowance cut. There for someone who earns EUR 2500 a month with these lightenings, who has worked for less than 15 years
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u81	And as an addendum to the previous one: First Mrs Viitanen, chairman of the SDP Finance Committee, followed by Mrs Pakkanen and Mr Zyskowicz, first-timers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u82	Mr President! Thank you, I think you should be provided with some lists so that you can keep up-to-date. [The first Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : Mr Peklarinen. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u85	Mr President! As a first-timer, I would also like to take part in this debate and remind you that we are discussing the amending budget 2018 and in that sense the employment indicators and improvements are at least very pleasant to read about myself. Similarly, investment in transport infrastructure investments has helped in many regions. You can see it for the traffic. There's also an orchestra here that's from the Great Lakes. I would also like to use this as an example in a small way: one might say ‘police buffoon’. This means that money has also been added to security, and this is an important issue. Unfortunately, as the general security situation in Finland has deteriorated, I also appreciate the government's attention to the needs of the Ministry of the Interior and the police in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u86	Mr President! I believe that this additional budget, including tax revenue increases, is proof of the positive results of the government's economic policy and the work of Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo. When we return to the kiky agreement, it is quite strange that, when that competitiveness agreement was concluded, everyone in Parliament except the Left Alliance flagged that agreement. The Social Democrats and the Greens, among other things, said — and the Greens did so when asked, because they tried to send two kinds of messages — that they were in favour of this kiky agreement. Now that the Kiki Agreement has been implemented and has contributed to improving our cost-competitiveness, but its cutbacks in holiday money have, of course, caused a great deal of discontent among the public sector workers, these same parties say that we are not, but the others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u87	Kiki, Rinne, answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u88	Mr President! I would like to say that 2.10. In the Finnish Broadcasting Programme, EK’s Häkämies stated that it was at the government’s request that these holiday allowance cuts in the kiky agreement were made. As I said earlier here — Mr Zyskowicz was not here in the Chamber at the time — the SDP has never been in favour of a cut in holiday allowances for low-income sectors, especially women-dominated sectors in the public sector. It's been done under pressure, under government pressure, just like EK's Spider-Man is 2.10. admitted it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u89	Responses by ministers: first Grahn-Laasonen, one minute, and then Minister of Finance Orpo, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, too, for the many contributions that supported this large educational package of government in this amending budget. In other words, EUR 60 million for the availability of skilled labour and well-targeted labour, because Finland really is suffering from a shortage of skills and that is what we can do very flexibly and quickly to deliver solutions. What may surprise you in this debate is that, as it were, time is largely spent on these things of the past, while at the same time we could be discussing how to ensure that growth continues, the availability of skilled labour, the building of the future. In some ways, it is somewhat surprising how the tone has been frozen, as it were, to discuss whether or not it was now who did it and how it went, when the results of the government clearly show that the economy has been made to grow and rise, and that is certainly a common achievement for all of us. I would also like to say to Mr Gustafsson that during this term of government we have reformed the Finnish education system so that there is no longer any need for separate programmes which you had to use during your term of office.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u91	Mr President! Two or three weeks ago I visited Tehy's government and we had a very good and constructive discussion. We looked a lot forward there, and here we look back a little bit, and I do not think that is a very good policy. You're supposed to look ahead. The important thing is to look at the big picture. As has been well described here in the Chamber: the economy is growing, employment is improving. As employment improves, more and more people get out of unemployment and poverty and improve the conditions for a good life. It is the big picture that has taken place during this reign. We will certainly be able to thank the world economy and the growth of the euro area for this, but our own efforts have had undeniable significance. 48% of these 40 economists said that the Kiki Agreement has clearly supported economic growth. That's what 48 percent said. Thirteen percent said they didn't agree. The economists here have been appealed to so many times, isn't that good enough? This is a good message. One more time about these pilots. I would like you, Mr Harakka, not to interpret me, to say something I have not said. I said that Mr PeV's statement should be taken seriously and that it is our job to make that law in such a way that it is in line with PeV's statement and the ponies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, on the list of speakers, on the actual list of speakers, there are 21 excellent speeches to be made, but if, after this recent round of ministers, there is now a very necessary need for someone to respond, I would now like to ask you, as usual, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u95	Mr President! There will be no doubt, Mr Orpo: the Social Democrats and I personally are very pleased that the economy is growing and employment is getting stronger. There is no mention that this is not an excellent thing for this to happen. But, Minister Orpo, for this reason it seems even worse and wrong that even this summer Tehy's active people, nurses, physiotherapists, police officers, firefighters and so on, the hardworking employees of the public sector, are losing their vacation money. Even in this amending budget, you have not been prepared to return this money to those hardworking people in order to be in the same position as other employees, other groups of employees in Finnish society. Why are you, Minister Orpo, not prepared to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u96	President! Mr Satonen here earlier announced whether we should listen more to these ay bosses and their messages. Perhaps it would be worth it, for example, if they look at this Kojamo situation, at huge government fees, and they will rise from 24,000 to 60,000 at the Aalto of Kojamonk, so that they should be listened to — a former community of public interest, VVO, the present community of non-profits. Of course, trade unions will get 300 million at the same time in this listing, so that at some point you will have to smile. All in all, I would like to place this skilled workforce at the centre of Finland, because the key issue is that the cooperation between OKM, TEM and STM must work seamlessly so that we can actually train these people in Finland, new good workers, get the skills and knowledge they currently lack. We have a shortage of labour, and we need major measures to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u97	Mr President! I personally believe that it is worth looking to the future. There will be a great deal to do in the future, including the increased risks of central government finances. Our debt has almost doubled in ten years, and the indirect responsibilities of the state have also increased rapidly. There are also many other hidden responsibilities. But we must go back to the point where we have acted in exactly the same way, both in the Assembly and in the Group of the Party of European Socialists, that is to say, we have accepted the big picture. For example, Mr Zyskowicz, who sat next to me a number of times, pointed out that he had acted in a different way with regard to the holiday money, but that was the whole thing that the workers and employers accepted, signed and not signed either by Minister Orpo or the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u98	Mr President! We do remind the opposition of the past, don't we? We remind you that this 60 million know-how is a crumb compared to what the government has cut out of teaching and knowledge over the past years. We will remind you of these past things, even though we have to look ahead. And fortunately, at least this early payment of the Finnvera Fund was not made thanks to the government's active fiscal policy in the preliminary consultation of the Committee on Finance. I think it was very honest that Mr Orpo said in his presentation that, although this year it is reducing the government debt by over 1.4 billion, which is a good thing, it will increase the debt for the coming years by exactly the same amount. We always go back to the past when there is cause, and yet we look to the future, which hopefully is better than what the government gave us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u99	Mr President! Indeed, it is always difficult to predict the future, but the merit of this kiky agreement, which I do not think Parliament should argue much more about, why it has been done and who has done it, and so on, is, however, unquestionable. Of course, it has affected the position of workers, and it has been very concrete, for example, in hospital districts in the form of a million-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand results. It has therefore been possible to work in such a way that it has also been possible to keep staff at work better. I haven't had to make a cut in staff. This has been one of the practical effects of that kiky agreement. In this sense, yes,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u100	Mr President! I think that, at least here on the left side of the kiky debate, the fact that representatives of the government parties are taking all the thanks and credit for these kiky things but not the finger pointing at it when we talk about holiday money cuts, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u103	Mr President! Even though the ministers were actually ready to leave, Grahn-Laasonen did speak quite wisely: we should look to the future there. Surely these issues of education and then of knowledge are absolutely essential. Here in the amending budget, a very small sum, a couple of million euros, has been added to the fact that education in Finnish and Swedish can be increased in the institutions of liberal education. In particular, when we have come to this legislative reform, in which the curriculum of basic education can also be completed by an adult, I would just like to say to all colleagues that it has been a very good way. Immigrants and asylum seekers who have participated in these trainings have at the same time received a Finnish comprehensive school leave certificate and have been able to apply for further studies and have also learned language skills — I would argue that even better than these different courses, which have then been arranged by private organisers. This may be
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u104	Mr President! However, the government must now be commended for the determination of the police and the protection police to take care of the funds. This point raised by Mr Kari is, of course, justified in the sense that such measures should be re-introduced as the fight against the shadow economy and the review of its appropriations. I am sure that we will bring this up together in the section in which we are both sitting. But, Mr President, it is a matter of this that in Finland only EUR 3.68 million, less than EUR 4 million, has been paid by the EU for the management of internal security and immigration as a result of the arrival of asylum seekers. According to the budget, these costs amount to EUR 22.5 million. If the Minister had been there, I would have asked if we had no lever to make greater contributions from the EU to these costs of managing internal security and immigration. It must be remembered that in 2016 the cost was nearly 50 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u105	Mr President! As far as the competitiveness pact is concerned, we know where it all started. It started when the government jumped right from the start into the locker booth of the Confederation of Finnish Industries so that it would catch. That's when the threats started with these coercion laws. I am thinking that the government would have been prepared to offer the hippo and helatorstai unpaid, the salary of sick leave would have been cut, otherwise the right to annual leave would have been reduced, which would also have been the case for the public sector employees in particular, and then there would have been this holiday allowance cut on the list. Here was a government tray. Here was a government tray, and these would have been done by the government. The government threatened by enforced laws, which resulted in the creation of a competitiveness pact in this form. It may be said, President, that, as a result, the assembly cut the holiday money for nurses, teachers, police officers in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u110	Mr President! As a civil servant himself and as a long-standing member of the Court of Justice, I find it very regrettable that their work is growing but never their resources. I made an interlude when there is money for internal security and there is more money for administrative rights as a result of this asylum process, but there will never be a general court, there will be more obligations and there will be this holiday allowance cut. I know a lot of people who are really tired with their long day. But I am glad that Minister Orpo now promised that the Constitutional Committee's opinion would be respected. As far as pilots are concerned, it was not carefully read last summer. I received no response to the fact that the Social Insurance Institution has more than half the need for a person-year resource in terms of money than they now have in the budget. They're really in trouble. So it's where people's benefits are to be paid. Then we'll have to do it again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u111	Mr President! To the extent that we now have to remind ourselves that the Kiki agreement has been concluded by the social partners. No party in Parliament has done so, nor has the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u114	I'm sorry I had to come on top of you. — Mr Filatov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u115	Mr President! I would have said in the very same way as Mr Kari that it is funny in the sense that the government says that its own actions have improved employment, and then at the same time it says that it does not play a part in the unpleasant aspects of the competitiveness pact. But the fact is that we had a government proposal that was in the consultation and, among other things, would have significantly reduced the wages of the sick period. In addition to introducing a qualifying date, which would have taken the full amount of the compensation, the subsequent compensation would have been significantly reduced, the working hours of the terminal and helatorstai would have been extended and the maximum length of the annual leave and the maximum amount of the holiday allowances would have been limited, i.e. it would have been the same type of measures that the competitiveness agreement concluded. And we all know that there would have been other options, such as those put forward by the Social Democrats, how that competitiveness pact should have been concluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u116	Mr President! There are good things in this amending budget. Support for residential buildings by electric car charging points is very good, and the Finns have been driving it. I myself have taken a bill on electric motoring, among other things. Another important issue that I would like to raise here, for which the Finns of Finland have also worked hard, relates to the establishment of cancer centres and the establishment of a genome centre. It is a very good thing that this matter is now in order. However, I am concerned that this appropriation may be used to cover the costs of preparing for the establishment of the Centre for the Development of Medicinal Products. I hope, however, that the cancer centre will also have the resources to act, because Finland is doing groundbreaking, unprecedented, fine research on matters. I also encourage everyone to participate personally in various collections related to cancer research, including the Cancer Foundation. And I agree with what Mr Lindström said.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u117	And the last speaker in the window of time, Mr Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u118	Mr President! It has been said here many times that there is no labour force, and that there is, hear, one reason, one very big reason, and that is that this country can afford to leave the skilled labour force outside the labour force, and that is what is done by the traps in this country. We have almost half a million people in enforcement, and far from all of these people can accept work because the family will not live after that. The issue of enforcement must be reformed in this country, and it will also help in this respect. The second is the fact that many times we have been told here how much employment has now improved. I mean, it's more like how many people have left the card list? That's where people have gone. 5,000 retired, and quite a large part has gone to private employment agencies, which they will get an agreement on as soon as they go inside, but that contract is a zero-job contract. And that's a contract of employment, right? But I want to know where the jobs are, where the full-time jobs are, what people have received.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u120	Mr President! The government's social welfare model is more likely to cost EUR 3 billion than the corresponding savings — this is the message we hear from experts on a daily basis in the Committee on Finance. Minister Orpo said from that place on 17 May that freedom of choice must even cost money. The whole opposition disagrees. We need a social reform that is financially responsible for the state. Every Finn understands that there are no free lunches. Expensive freedom of choice is paid as high customer fees or as a worse service or both. The cost of change over the next few years is several hundred million, but already the government has managed to spend half a billion euros on administration and information systems that run a model that may never come. Equally careless is the use of money in this amending budget, which once again promises the so-called pilots EUR 100 million. Last month, a split decision was made for the first 100 million. The government defended itself by the fact that there has been no movement of money, that they are conditional on the implementation of social security. But this was not the position of the Constitutional Committee when, for the first time last summer and now for the second time last week, it said that these pilots should be stopped. Therefore, the government takes the Constitutional Committee as a standing table: it takes the shrimp out of it but does not leave the sour herring. But the position of the Constitutional Committee is not conditional, it should be taken seriously, and it is the great news today that the government does not even pretend to follow the position of the Constitutional Committee. These promises of this money are one way in which the government will slip the social model forward without the decision of the Parliament. In front of the people of the provinces, these millions of bundles of bills are waved — no wonder that they are enthusiastic about implementing this social welfare model: social centres in South Karelia, Kymenlaakso, North Savo and New Zealand, 41 million, oral units in Central Finland and New Zealand, 25 million for customer bills in Southern Ostrobothnia, South Savo, Päijät-Häme, New Zealand, 17.5 million for personal budgeting in South Savo, Central Ostrobothnia, Päijät-Häme, Satakunta and New Zealand, 15 million — 100 million euros in 10 provinces on 15 May. The question is: by what right has this money been distributed? And the answer is, there is no right. The next 100 million will be for those who haven't yet. What gives you the right to share this money? There's no right. How has this come about? Not only is the position of the Constitutional Committee not heard in its view that implementation has gone too far, but there has also been a complaint to the Chancellor of Justice and Pauli Rautiainen, Professor of Law at the University of Tampere, is already flashing the matter of ministerial responsibility under Article 115 of the Constitution. How did this happen? Only because the disastrous combination of freedom of choice and provinces — ugly twins — is an obsession between the assembly and the centre simply because socialism is more important politically than the legal issue of authority. When we use government, it must never be an issue of authority. The way in which the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is binding on the government will therefore be tested in the coming weeks, and it will be one of the most interesting demonstrations of this social war. Mr President! If the government’s amending budget spreads hundreds of millions to implement non-existent legislation, it will be much more tedious in solving existing problems. Reforms of employment and sustainable growth have no abilities or desires. It is right that the government has identified the problem of the lack of skilled employment in some sectors and in successful localities. But this problem should not exist. Why is it only now that one and a half million Finns are in need of further or further education? Why is it only now that there is at least a small amount of funding available? The money is being blamed for the war, but labour market training is cheap. The SDP has proposed two major reforms to raise the level of competence: an increase in the compulsory education age has been proposed, and Lauri Ihalainen has also proposed a reform of vocational adult education and training, which must at least be done by the next government. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that the Socialist Group in Parliament has tabled its own constructive amending budget initiatives with a total of EUR 320 million for knowledge and employment. They include a significant investment in education and training, as well as increasing the powers of Business Finland's innovation funding. Finally, I congratulate the government on winning the lottery. When Export Credit Ltd decided to repay the loan received from the State within ten years, the net public borrowing will decrease by EUR 1.3 billion this year. And as has been heard here, this EUR 1.3 billion is intended to finance the transition to a two-way collateral arrangement in the management of government debt. In this way, the present government will transfer its gift from the previous government for the benefit of future governments, and it will be a credit to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u121	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, few but more persistent colleagues! I too thought of looking a little further into the future and yet attaching it to this additional budget, and this is related to the fact that, although, fortunately, we are now doing well in terms of growth, in terms of employment, in terms of export prospects, better — and well, let us be glad — and it has been influenced by a great many things, yet we cannot be quite sure what prospects for longer-term sustainable growth we have. So we will continue to be dependent on exports and the world economy's woes if they are re-emerged. In this respect, in order to ensure longer-term economic growth, there are things that need to be strengthened. They are knowledge, investments in research, product development and innovation. They relate to raising productivity and ensuring investment at home and expanding the export base. I am also talking about this because no additional funding was found in the additional budget for research and product development, from which funding has been cut. In order for me to be credible, it was also cut by the previous government. But this government has kept cutting it. We are no longer among the leading countries in innovation policy, and this is a bad thing from the point of view of the conditions for its longer-term growth, new ideas. In our own option, we have proposed additional funding of EUR 60 million specifically for innovation investments, so that in the longer term we will ensure the prospects for growth that we are now enjoying here. The second issue then relates to competence: The general level of education has not risen but is falling in Finland. We already have the seeds of educational inequality in this society, and we have people who rely on basic education — good people, skilled people, but their employment rate is 41%, with an average of 71%. These young adults under 30 years of age are about 100,000. From this point of view, raising the compulsory age and the right to secondary education is a very important reform, precisely because the employment history of these young adults, who depend on primary school to work, is only 21 years for women, 24 years for men, and ensuring that they receive secondary education and qualifications will increase their employment history by more than one year. In this respect, the Economic Policy Review Council made very uncontested arguments for this reform. And the second point relates to what Mrs Harakka was talking about and what we have put forward and what we have made a great deal of preparations for: This country needs a big reform of vocational adult education. It's a big challenge. Even the Prime Minister has said that within a few years more than a million people will have to retrain with digitalisation, technological development and artificial intelligence. I too have now had the opportunity to sit in this AI working group, which is considering its social implications, and the only big, pervasive thing is that the strengthening of skills is a way of coping with these changes too. We need an increase in the skills of the working-age population, above all those who are disadvantaged, so that everyone can keep up with it, and this requires this new reform, a major reform and the accompanying financial arrangement, so that people can move from one job to another in a safer way, or from one kind of work to another, which will also be a big thing. I hope that this kind of reform work could be launched on a broad preparation basis, and that is what this future success story of Finland requires. I conclude that the higher the level of education, the longer the working lives, and the higher the employment rate, the better the chances of moving from one job to another, and in this sense this reform is very necessary. The Social Democrats have been the authors of this initiative, and we have a lot to give to it, and this must definitely be achieved in the next government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u122	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! An experienced representative from Ihalainen is always pleasant and comfortable to listen to. Whether there are circumstances in which one agrees or disagrees or disagrees with the means, such a good, constructive reflection, and that is what he said this time too. Some of the methods I disagree with. I do not see the necessity of this as a solution, but rather an education-type solution, which guarantees everyone a place of study and adequate support and thus access to vocational or upper secondary school education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u125	Mr President! In fact, Mr Heinonen, it is a matter of concern when it is certain that even good times and growth will not continue indefinitely. Then if because we should take advantage of this growth. It should be used in the right way and in a fair way, i.e. by investing in knowledge and sharing this growth for everyone. I think this is important. It is, of course, a good and positive thing, which the government has now announced a great deal, that this amending budget has these specific additional contributions to knowledge, education and so forth. But at the same time it might be necessary to find the small amount of looking in the mirror and being honest that one might also say that these are very small crumbs relative to the massive amount that the government has cut out of education this season. It is completely perverse because it also cuts future growth and its conditions. That is one of the great criticisms that all economic scholars have repeated to us in the Committee on Budgets year after year. But it's a good thing there's some positive plus marks. It is, of course, always an important issue in all its aspects. President! When we talk about this growth, it is very important that it belongs to everyone, as we talked about many times in that debut. I would also like to make a few specific comments on the issue of holiday money, which rose significantly: as social democrats, we have already included resources for ‘growth belongs to all’-the time that has been allocated to these hardworking public sector workers,teachers, nurses,cleansers and policemen,the point andthe holiday money. Families have rather sad stories about what they are not going through now and not doing when the big gap in the economy comes from when the usual holiday money is not paid. I can always believe that when a person gets a chance to spend a little time on vacation and do meaningful things, then it will also raise the creative capital of the entire nation and also give the economy a boost when people’s purchasing power is maintained. That is why I am very disappointed, because the government would still have had the opportunity in this amending budget to allocate the sum of money to these compensations for holiday allowance cuts. It would not have been too late in time, and that is why it is a very large missing gap, and I think it should have been in this amending budget. I will continue a little with this ‘growth belongs to all’ idea as it was said in the previousdebat that it is a terrible thing for all of us. But unfortunately, that government's choice of values has been so far that money has been found to reduce the taxation of the most well-off, have been found for millions of dollars, have been found for wealthy forest owners, have been found for the most wealthy, the most wealthy, the pharmacists. These are the ones that have been found when tax decisions have been made. But at the same time, the government must admit that this government, for example, cuts people's basic security, has cut the indexes of pensions. Despite the fact that a few small increases in guaranteed pensions have come, so when one hand is cut, living at the same time, of course, will also increase, medicines will increase, customer fees will increase. We saw the calculations of the parliamentary information service: for example, the purchasing power of a low- and medium-income pensioner remains a minus sign. That is why this is not at all something that deserves no attention; it is something that we must give serious attention to. In this respect, too, growth should be for everyone, unlike the government's own value choices, which are now operating.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u128	Mr President! The amending budget shows that the economy is growing and employment is improving — good. It does not say that income and wealth disparities are also increasing and the number of people living in enforcement and otherwise under pressure is very high. This is an unfortunate fact. The rich get rich, the poor stay poor. Government debt also continues. This year, net borrowing will increase by EUR 1.7 billion. At the end of the year, the central government is estimated to have EUR 108 billion in debt. Due to the monetary policy of the European Central Bank and the junk loan purchase programme, the long-standing period of low interest rates, the time of unhealthy low interest rates, is threatening to end in the near future. The consequences depend on the size of the rise in the interest rate. For the Finnish State, one percentage point means an increase in interest expenditure of around one billion. The ratio is the same for municipalities, businesses and indebted households. Many parties, including the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority, have expressed serious concerns about the indebtedness of our households. The debt ratio is approaching 130 percent. Especially young families with children with large mortgages, other family start-ups, and perhaps even student loans, are at great risk. Remember, too, that when household concerns grow in the family, love fades. The breakdown of families and possible unemployment trigger problems that all suffer. The debts don't go away. The only thing that's gonna go away is the ability to pay. Over-indebted people easily become users of income support, and even child welfare customers are threatened. Society's paying a big bill. The problems of over-indebtedness need to be addressed by the government as a matter of urgency. We've got to get the quick-jump companies in order. No one in need should be exploited. Limits to money laundering. Mr President! The new problem has arisen in the housing market. It's playing with corporate loans. Experts have also given serious warning about this. Housing production should not be prevented, but an unhealthy phenomenon must be prevented as a matter of urgency. My question is: what is the government going to do about this? Otherwise, housing matters must also be addressed. The cost of living is unreasonable for us. Last autumn, the Finns presented an alternative budget housing billing program. Unfortunately, the government has not done anything about this yet. For example, excessive electricity transmission prices continue to increase. The current issue is the listing of Kojamo Oyj. Some pension companies and a large number of trade unions are planning to fund hundreds of millions, and tax-free. Kojamo’s 35,000 tenants fear that their rents will increase as a result of the exchange, and not without reason. In particular, foreign but not domestic investors are not benefactors, not even ay-bosses, whose commissions receive huge increases. ‘Municipals,as well,’ saidRikuAalto, President of Kojamo’s Board of It's worth the stock market, isn't it? I guess that's what ay-bosses understand. But where is justice and moderation? That is certainly what the voters are asking for, and perhaps this will also allow me to ask the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance, which have a strong position in the trade union movement. The True Finns demand that the government immediately clarify and correct the definition of public interest entities in such a way that the tax exemption it brings will not be unduly exploited. Raw business cannot be of general interest even if it is carried out by ay movement or an employer organisation or the Youth Foundation. Renters who fear the consequences of listing on the Kojamo stock exchange must be guaranteed a reasonable level of rent. Mr President! The amending budget proposes an increase of EUR 3.5 million to Kela's management of the active model. The need would be double that. During the short term, the active model has transferred around 15,000 unemployed people to income support. Is this the purpose of the model? In other words, squatting on the long-term unemployed, cutting off their small compensation and transferring them to another hatch, i.e. income support. Last autumn, the Government launched an appropriation of EUR 100 million for piloting the freedom of choice of social services. The government is now presenting a similar mandate for the same purpose. Freedom of choice should have been implemented only in the third phase of the social welfare reform, i.e. in the final phase, in accordance with the original government programme. It should have been tested in practice. If this had been the case, it would have been responsible and we would have been well advanced in the implementation of the project. Now, with a very large amount of tax money, as much as EUR 200 million, the government is trying to concrete its unacceptable and costly model of freedom of choice so that the next Parliament and the government are tied to this particular market model. This is not responsible. Fortunately, a year ago, in the Committee on Budgets, we intervened in a procedure that was going against the Constitution. Now the budget and mandate proposals are conditional. They can't be used until the war laws are in force. The laws of war, on the other hand, seem to have reached an almost impasse. It seems that the coalition does not get the free market choice it wants passionately, nor does the Ministry of Finance have its budget limit on cutting social services. The open question is whether the centre will have its centuries-old dream, that is, the provinces. If Parliament does not squirm, it seems to be doing the EU bureaucrats who have been given final power in this area too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u129	Madam President! This draft amending budget contains a number of important measures responding to the current situation, which are indeed expected in the face of growing economic growth and the changing needs of the business community. In particular, I am pleased that the government is investing in this amending budget, especially in the needs of companies and especially in the growing skills needs. A total of EUR 60 million is planned to be invested in this, in various measures. We now have a situation where, as a result of the increased demand for labour, there is even a shortage of labour in many sectors and an even worsening shortage of labour in several regions. This is reflected in a variety of problems. On the other hand, unemployment may be very high, but especially in the manufacturing industry and in certain service sectors the message is that skilled workers are difficult to obtain. This is also reflected in my own region of Central Finland, where the manufacturing industry, the traditional industry, is doing quite well. The order books are in reasonable condition, even full of certain companies, but I constantly get the message that skilled workers — welders, machiners, various industrial experts — are really difficult to obtain despite the fact that unemployment statistics seem to show that these experts are out of work. That is why I think it is very important that the government now decides to invest as much as EUR 24 million in further and further training for jobseekers. That is very important in this situation. Of course, more would be needed, but this will really be necessary in this situation. In addition, it has been decided to increase the amount of EUR 5 million to promote the employment of those in a difficult labour market position. This is a good measure, too. Especially when we see, as these high unemployment rates in my region tell us, that there are very hard-to-work job seekers in the statistics, that there are no jobs for families, it is important that these measures are targeted and then, through the regional Employment and Economic Development Offices, even more targeted measures can be established. It has also been decided to increase the human resources of the TE Offices. But this problem of matching the workforce is really a wider problem. New training policy measures are also needed. Of course, the recent vocational training reform will help. When I was allowed to speak on Friday last week in Äänekoski to young professionals who have only graduated from the profession, it really did show how satisfied the providers of education are with the reform of vocational education and how it will make it possible, in a completely new way, with companies to create tailor-made and, above all, tailor-made training for the needs of the individuals, students, and to direct training to the areas where it really needs to be done, and also the measures that these students need. Well, this turned out to be a lot of praise. Of course, even more years will come before this legislation as a whole comes into force, a new financial system, and before the education provider, the business community and other employers in the region have adapted to this new model and fully benefit from it. But indeed this model received praise. Of course, this period of reduced funding has been difficult and difficult to adapt to, but this reform has also been able to respond to that problem. It is clear, however, that in the future, too, the direction of funding must be changed. This availability of skilled labour is therefore quite an important regional policy issue. In many regions, especially in sub-regions, in a number of regions with a high level of manufacturing and technology industries, the need for skilled labour is currently very urgent. If these measures, and if no further measures are taken in the future, do not address and solve the problem of the availability of labour, then there is a real risk that industrial companies will relocate their production and activities elsewhere, perhaps even outside Finland. We must remember that our business life no longer competes within Finland, between regions, but above all in an international Europe-wide, perhaps even wider, market. This is why we need to find solutions to the labour problem in the coming years. Otherwise, we're gonna be in trouble. Finally, I would like to highlight this very good measure in which the Government has decided to concentrate its investments in the mining industry on the Finnish Malmi Processing Company. This is a really, really important and forward-looking measure, because even now there is already a worldwide demand for various battery minerals, for extractive products, as the electricisation of the car fleet is progressing in industrialised countries. When we have these minerals in Finland, it is important that we can help with such public measures, state measures, the development of this industry and this cluster in Finnish ownership, so that it would not happen as often as this kind of promising, growing industry is immediately transferred to foreign ownership. But I am also happy to thank the government for this measure and I hope it will be successful in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u130	Mr President! Finland has taken part in international growth and employment has strengthened, although in fact the number of hours worked in the first quarter of the year in relation to the previous year has fallen. I, if anyone, am glad that employment has been strengthened, but if we consider, for example, long-term unemployment, it is often said in this Chamber that so many long-term unemployed people have been employed, i.e. looking at the decline in long-term unemployment and saying that these people have been employed, but this statistical math is not that simple. We don't know where those unemployed people went. We have come from outside the labour force who have employed and increased our employment rate, but we do not know what has actually happened to the long-term unemployed. We know that we have very many decision-making solutions that have cleaned up the statistics of the long-term unemployed. In fact, I think we should do a little more extensive, deeper analysis of what has actually happened in long-term unemployment, because otherwise we will draw the wrong conclusions as to what measures have been taken and what measures have actually pushed people away from the labour market, making people give up their job search. According to people’s feedback, it seems that the active model and increased toughness measures have, among other things, led many to give up seeking work and to move on to income support alone, for example. And if these are the consequences of our active activities, then we will all go from ditch to ditch, because we all know that it is very difficult for a person dependent on income support to take on occasional employment relationships, because there those incentives are the worst. I believe that this is happening because, in many of its own employment policy reforms, the government has also estimated that it will result in an increase in income support expenditure, and this is contradictory from the point of view of employment objectives. The government is increasing the resources to secure skilled labour, and this is definitely a good and positive thing. I don't want to talk about history, but it's absolutely imperative that we do what we have to do. The shortage of skilled labour is partly the result of the own decisions of this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u134	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! It is a great thing that we have an economic growth and one can say that there is a slight improvement.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u139	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Safe roads in good condition are vital to the employment, tourism and vitality of the regions of Eastern Finland. The road and tracks in good condition contribute to the accessibility and attractiveness of the beautiful Saimaa sites. They promote the possibility for companies to operate and employ in Eastern Finland, and they promote the possibility for people to live in Eastern Finland. It's been worse than that in 20 years. This can be seen in people’s everyday lives as bumpy roads, collapses on the sides of roads, and weight limitations on different sections of the road. These all increase the transport costs of professional transport in case of longer alternative routes or fewer cargoes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u142	Representative Hoskonen — absent. Congressman Rossi — Rumors!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u143	Madam President! The speech did not come out of the blue. By asking for it, it came. — Mr President! This supplementary budget debate has given Parliament the opportunity to discuss the state of the Finnish economy, the war and many other interesting topics. In this respect, of course, Parliament is doing its job. The criticisms that have come from the opposition in particular have been directed more specifically at the issue of social protection and piloting and related issues. It has been pleasant to note that there is great satisfaction in Parliament that the state of the Finnish economy has improved and is improving. Of course, there will be some controversy about who it is. I don't care if it's anybody's fault. In my opinion, it is a joint effort of Finnish employees, entrepreneurs, on a large number of fronts that the Finnish economy has turned to growth. Of course, the government has its own merits, which are then entirely linked to the fight against the government’s sustainability deficit. What, then, does that sustainability gap mean? In many cases, it may not always be something that one wants to think to the end. It is a question of indebtedness of public finances and, at the same time, of increasing public spending while the population is ageing, and the adjustment of this equation is one of the central tasks of the Sipilä Government. We are talking about a total of approximately EUR 10 billion, and even the war has its own meaning. In the long run, the much-speaking EUR 3 billion of this is precisely the cost reduction that would otherwise — if the government did not do anything — seem to continue to grow. And, yes, how does that make up 3 billion, or whether it is 2 or 4 billion — the savings potential estimated by the Ministry of Finance, which was presented to the Committee on Finance, was 4.6 billion — is in practice a question of improving the efficiency of operations, of ict, of how we can better transfer our information and how we can avoid costs. At the moment, we have a great deal of investment in information management that is going to cost the various organisations, and in this respect I believe that, over time — it will take years — it will also be possible to bring this cost down. It is not a question of providing inferior services to people, but of how the service would run better and how people would then get those services better for themselves. The Sipilä Government, together with the Centre Party, the National Coalition Party and previously the Finnish People's Party, with the help of the current Blue Group, has been able to achieve this sustainability deficit very well: GDP is growing and is now estimated to be 2.6 per cent, and Finland's export bet is also higher than the global average and Europe's average. In this sense, something has been done right in Finland. For example, Nordea would not have transferred its head office from Stockholm to Helsinki if it had considered Finland to be a backward country of the economy, as is very easily the case with the opposition, in particular the left-wing opposition, to argue and present. Employment is improving, and the government's objectives are approaching in this respect, that rate of 72%, which is also modest in a certain way. But it is true that three years ago, the opposition constantly mocked that goal by saying that the government will not achieve it. Well, now that it's getting there, they say it's not the government's fault. Which way is it done?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u148	Madam President! This amending budget could be described as a good and balanced presentation that takes into account the short and longer-term challenges facing the Finnish economy. In the short term, the biggest challenge is the maintenance of current economic growth, and access to skilled labour in particular is a key issue. It is therefore a good thing that this amending budget proposes an additional EUR 60 million to alleviate this particular problem. In turn, the most important longer-term challenges remain the sustainability of public finances in the 2020s and 2030s, as expenditure pressures due to population ageing become reality. The best way to face up to this reality is to pursue a stable and rigorous economic policy, and that is where this amending budget succeeds well. Despite economic growth, we are still in debt at billions of paces, and in this situation a significant increase in expenditure and a breach of the spending limits rule would be bad economic policy. A strong increase in spending would overheat the economy and increase government debt and increase the sustainability gap. Mr President! This does not, of course, harm the opposition, which has been thrown at the ballot box, but promises billions of extra words when it comes to what good destination. This irresponsible welfare socialism, as stated by the columnist Jarkko Veskana of the Monday Kauppalehti, has been pursued in particular by the SDP. At the same time, those who fund the welfare society most, entrepreneurs and middle-income people have been forgotten from the speeches or, at worst, are treated as a bottomless fund, from which funds can be completely mined for the common good. I ask, like the Water People in their column: what if these Finns, who earn between EUR 35,000 and EUR 150,000, who cover 61% of income tax and capital tax, are already starting to spend enough? If the welfare society is really to be saved, it must also mean that it is fair to fund these common services as well. Many young and highly educated adults have already moved abroad for a better career, but also for a better income. Mr President! For individual increases in appropriations, the Government, and in particular Minister Mykkänen, deserve thanks for the rapid response to ensure the operation of the Finnish Police Department in Cookie Finland. In this Chamber, especially by the SDP, questions were asked about internal security. The indoor air problems in the Jyväskylä police prison are serious, and this appropriation will now provide relief for running a normal police day-to-day life in a difficult situation. This will at least increase internal security in Central Finland. Of course, I hope this is just a temporary solution. On the longer side, however, it is clear that the growing Jyväskylä needs a new and healthy police house in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u149	Madam President! The medicines of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government for improving the economy and improving Finland's competitiveness have proved right, but of course we still need precision medication, and that is why the amending budget makes a good contribution to putting Finland in good shape, employment is still improving and we have skilled labour force through training in sectors with labour shortages. In fact, the best contribution to this economic growth is that government borrowing will, however, fall from the estimated EUR 3 billion to EUR 1.7 billion this year. It is a good indication that the country's need for debt is decreasing, but above all we are approaching the time when the total amount of debt is going to stop and we are gradually able to pay that amount of nearly EUR 108 billion, which is currently the burden of Finland, which is about 46 per cent of GDP. In other words, this amount of debt should already contain the plus element of the projects, objectives, hopes and increases that will be placed in Parliament's yellow book, in other words, we must continue to live a tight life up to our mouths in such a way that we do not fall short in the next few years. Mr President! It is important, therefore, that the Sipilä Government now invests in the possibilities of receiving employment services and work, so that we do everything we can to overcome the problem of matching, which is a major obstacle, an obstacle to growth, in the mining industry in southern and northern Finland, in the metal industry and in tourism, where there is an urgent need for skilled and trained labour. That's where we need more investment. The amending budget now proposes EUR 24 million for further training and further training for jobseekers. In addition, EUR 5 million will be added to promote the employment of those in a difficult labour market position. This will launch growth service pilots. In addition, more human resources will be put into employment and economic development offices for 206 man-years of work, and this is intended to enable the introduction and application of the active model to be implemented as well as possible for the unemployed. I am particularly pleased that as we try to find the keys to growth more and more, and also so that the investments in this Parliament are reflected in the regions and companies and in the growth of employment, above all the euro that has been put into basic infrastructure management and the development of the transport network will come back many times more. We will enable many large investments, and, for example, some improvement in the interface between the two projects in the amending budget will enable future major industrial investments and jobs to be created. I welcome the fact that even the development of the central Pasila district, the construction of an additional track, was found to increase the mandate of EUR 8.8 million — it will improve the capacity along the track — but also the necessary additional funding for highway 4 Oulu-Kemi for the bridges, to which EUR 15 million will be allocated for the reconstruction of the bridges of the Oulu River. This too is absolutely essential if we are to keep the Number Four in good condition and that growth and development are to take place first and foremost. But I still agree with what Mr Taavitsainen has said here before that the maintenance of the basic route and the repair debt should be given special attention in the coming years. This year we are in the super-year of the renovation debt for basic bus maintenance, and in the summer there will be many road improvements and also improvements in railway sections — that is to say, in order to improve the existing infrastructure. These super-inputs come as the government's top project, and I hope that the next governments will appreciate and value that we have to be in good shape before that and when we think about new development projects and new investments, for example. There is still a great deal of repair debt in ports, railways and roads, and we are now considering new financing solutions outside of direct budget funding. What they will be is being resolved in the parliamentary working group. The government has also responded to the call that, now that the development of Malmi's replacement field has become necessary, we appreciate and see the future of small aviation as important for both passenger and freight transport. There will now be EUR 2 million in transfer appropriations for the development of Malmi's replacement field, and it is our intention to maintain the future of aviation in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u150	Mr President! It is good that this amending budget has now received the 2017 harvest damage compensation, which will be paid in the form of reductions in the energy tax. After all, it was a very humid year, and the harvesting and drying costs were exceptionally high, and that is why such a way of replacing them was chosen. It is relatively good because the majority of farmers use light fuel oil, all use it in machinery and tractors and in harvesters, and the absolute majority also in grain drying. All in all, this compensation amount, EUR 25 million, although not large, corresponds roughly to the sums paid under the harvest compensation scheme in force at the time. They were pretty modest back then. This seems to me to be smart in the sense that this is of a general nature and takes into account the difficulties of the entire farming community in the year 2017 as it was. Of course, farmers expect the principles adopted at the beginning of the fund period to be respected throughout the period 2015-2020. Until this year, it has gone exactly as it is written, but this year the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps will be cut by such an amount of over EUR 20 million, which is almost the sum that is now being paid elsewhere in the form of reductions in the energy tax, that is to say, no specific tax planning problems for farmers in this sense are to be expected. Of course it is grotesque to even talk about tax planning, when that EUR 25 million is precisely the amount intended to compensate for damage. Next year, the government has announced that it will cancel the cut in the natural handicap compensation agreed in the difficult circumstances of 2015 — after all, the economy was at a low level. That too would have been good EUR 20 million a year, next year, but it has been agreed to be removed, and the money is then expected for the 2019 budget in autumn. Then 2020, which will be the last year of the fund period, will be a tragedy for the future government, but that too should be anticipated. Of course, the EUR 20 million cut in the compensatory allowance written there too should be withdrawn. In addition, the problem is environmental compensation. That is a big problem, because in 2015 farmers applied for those environmental compensations more than expected. In addition, expenditure for 2014 was paid on the 2015 frameworks for the new Fund period, which also affects the adequacy of the financing of the environmental compensation, which is likely to be at least EUR 100 million in 2020. This should be taken into account in the budgetary plan now under discussion here in Parliament, on which the Committee on Budgets is about to draw up its report. That problem of environmental compensation is due to the fact that the measures that farmers were entitled to choose were more interesting than expected. A surprising amount of money has been spent on such measures as environmental compensation, such as protection zones, restoration plants, collectors’ plants, and a little more than expected on winter cover. However, farmers were entitled to choose these measures. It is absolutely essential that, even in the last year of the fund period, that promise, which is justified, be fulfilled and these subsidies are paid as they were announced then.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u151	Mr President! I must first say that I tried to speak here while the ministers were still there, and I must say that, in the presence of Mr Hoskosen too, I am glad that the Constitutional Committee has completed one stage and then we have the opportunity to debate again here in the Chamber, because, as you know, the Constitutional Committee does not want to discuss matters during the debate, but of course, Mr Government, I would very much like to see our statements taken seriously and the corrections that we have made properly - I am referring to this debate today without going into detail. Mr President! In fact, when it comes to the amending budget and 2018 and this is where colleagues have on many occasions spoken about the EU, I would like to start by saying that I would now like to see not only the money itself but also the government genuinely using the EU tools, the instruments that Finland can and could use. I am still disappointed that Finland is under-exploiting some of these programmes or not using them at all. One example is the financing of the European Investment Bank, where even this total of EUR 400 million in Finland, which is distributed to different commercial banks, is now well spent, that is a good thing. But I would like the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance themselves to see that, if and when it has no budgetary impact, Finland would continue to be active in the direction of the EIB and enable a financing channel for SMEs, because it has been one of the major reasons why Finland's economy has now grown and we have received different loan options. In addition to this, I would also like to speak about the road issue, about the fairway issue, about the infrastructure issue, like Mrs Taavitsainen here and many others. Hopefully, in the midst of these financial problems and money, the government will also remember the big picture of how Finland will be genuinely attached to European TEN-T funding in the future. Now, if ever, this year and even during this reign, we should have the solutions to ensure that Finland's main routes, both rail and road routes, are accessible to the core of the EU. Otherwise, Finland will continue to be outside these EU billions. This too is a serious message, and I hope that the government will do everything in its power to ensure that all this does not end up with the next government, because then, on schedule, we will run out of time in the sense that the new EU, TEN-T programmes are already on the move. Of course, I would have liked projects such as the Pisara which, at the end of the last term of government, was still being interrupted for some strange reason. There too, a few hundred million EU funds were not used, because the government parties were unable to reach an agreement on this at the time. Finally, perhaps on regional policy: Mr Taavitsainen reminded us that there are many different road networks, that there are higher and lower road networks, and in that sense, of course, this is a big question of how to prioritise them, but I would like the government and others to think about innovation that the municipalities and possibly future provinces are already actively engaged in infrastructure, road projects together, and this is a message to Finland as a whole, to all the municipalities, to all the provinces. In my opinion, Finland thinks very old-fashioned if and when we do with this so-called old model and do not do what Sweden does, which exploits the expertise of cities and regions. I know that this is a new matter for us, but it must thank the government that the current legislation has moved forward, that we will be able to carry out those projects if we want to, so that in that sense too it would be worth piloting them already now. Finally, Mr President, to this debt of correction: The fact that EUR 300 million per year has been agreed in a parliamentary working group is a good thing, and it is a good thing that it has been agreed in parliamentary terms. That means 1.2 billion in the next term. That is a good figure, too, and we will be able to do at least the minimum.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u152	Madam President! The increase in the central government tax revenue estimate is EUR 172 million due to strong consumer confidence and improved employment. There is also good news that emissions trading revenues will rise by EUR 90 million. This is certainly strongly motivated by the fact that the emissions trading price has risen to EUR 16 per tonne. It is gradually approaching the figure that it should be, but we are still on our way to the right figure to ensure that emissions trading works as it is supposed to. Although our debt is falling, we still have to take EUR 1.7 billion in debt, and that is always, of course, for future generations. In this amending budget, I will pay particular attention to three sets. One of these is the promotion of the availability of skilled labour. It has been calculated that we will have to train a million Finns over the next ten years, and that is a huge amount. Our educational structure may not be able to respond as it is, but improvements have already been made to it, and more and more is being thought about how we can make these forms of education more flexible. Part of this budget is now starting, among other things, in the form of supplementary and conversion training, then also in the form of increased company-oriented labour market training and progress in employment for those in difficult labour market positions. Another important element is investing in the cost of learning materials in upper secondary schools and vocational schools, in order to make it easier for people with lower incomes to go to secondary school. I would also like to mention education, which is specifically targeted at improving the skills of people with weak basic skills in vocational education — such as a pilot. The professional side will be created with this kind of precision training. This is exactly the kind of specific training that will be needed in the future very much more so that our education funding becomes more flexible. We really need to be able to respond to the vital needs of the regions and to ensure that schools and educational institutions genuinely cooperate with each other. Many schools are currently competing with each other, but the competition should be global and not internal to Finland. These rapid changes will only continue, and we really need to respond to that change in our society and in the labour market. If you look at these prospects that Finland has, tourism is certainly one big entity that will grow — and has now grown by 4.2 per cent more in recent months than in the corresponding period of last year. This is why it is excellent that the Visit Saimaa project is under way by Visit Finland, where cooperation between tourism companies is being improved. And in this amending budget, keep the new environmental management vessel of the Archipelago Cleaning Association Saimaa received EUR 500000. This is important in terms of environmental objectives, water research and then also in relation to the coming of the UNESCO Geopark area to the south of Saimaa, which will certainly increase the flow of tourists. I will mention another EUR 500000 investment in Savonlinna’s Fibre Laboratory. It is there that important products are being developed from the bio-sector, i.e. products that can respond, among other things, to the plastic challenge and to the climate change challenge that we face. Finally, on energy and climate issues. This government has invested in the fight against climate change in a good way. We are now ranked eighth worldwide in the Germanwatch Institute’s statistics on the fight against climate change, when in previous years that figure was over 30. The Government's actions are also reflected in Finland's readiness to respond to the energy crisis. We have reached 12 in Europe, according to the 4 World Economic Forum, in such a way that we are ready for an energy breakthrough.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u155	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I will continue a little further on these regional transport projects, which I hope will receive funding from the state. I do not agree with Mr Rossi that the budget in hand is somehow dependent on the parliamentary working party. Government parties have the power and the opportunity to act and to increase funding for the fairway item in the state budget. In Eastern Finland, transport of forest industry and wood management means vitality, new jobs and business activity in the regions. At the same time, the increase in heavy traffic imposes additional requirements at the intersections of the highways. In particular, the share of heavy traffic will increase on Highway 13 From Mikkeli to Jyväskylä, through which wood is transported from Etelä-Savo to Keski-Suomen Äänekoski's new bioproduct plant. Highway 13 crosses in Mikkeli in the city's urban area. Of the four branches of the light-controlled intersection of the highway, three are owned by the state and one branch of the income direction by the City of Mikkeli. The capacity of this light-controlled connection is no longer sufficient for increased traffic volumes. Known growth development Äänekoski will block the capacity of the connection, leading to traffic congestion and long waiting times. This interface requires urgent repair to ensure that passenger transport is smooth and that there are no delays in the transport of professional transport. Each one of us wants to have: Soundkoski gets wood, and in Etelä-Savo the tree grows best in the whole of Finland, and we have plenty of it as long as we can get it to different parts of Finland. Fixing the interface into a two-band turbo loop would improve traffic flow and road safety. The station plan enabling the construction of the connection is valid, and the Ely centre is currently and The City of Mikkeli is working on a road plan for the connection. The construction capacity will be available during this year 2018 and the cost estimate is only EUR 3 million. The functioning of transport services is also vital for several food production and horticultural companies in Jorosi, whose products are transported to stores and large-scale stores throughout Finland. While the transport sector brings growth and employment to our regions, it significantly increases the consumption of road surfaces and imposes additional requirements for used road sections and interfaces. This is particularly evident in Jorosi. Then a little lower on the roads. For example, the road number 464 from Varkaus to Savonlinna through Rantasalmi is very busy because of the transport of Stora Enso Varus's veneerwood factory, Punkaharju floorwood plant and Leppävirta waste incineration plant. Between 1100 and 2660 vehicles drive on the road in 24 hours, 175 of which are heavy commercial traffic. This road is one example of a road in very poor condition and is far too narrow for the volume of traffic. In addition, a total of 41 traffic accidents occurred on this poor road between 13 and 17, with the deaths of three persons. The poor condition of the road also endangers patient safety. The most critically ill and neurological patients must be transported to Kuopio University Hospital via Juva, which increases transport times. This path must urgently be corrected by the state and allocated funding in the budget. The same type of lower road network road is a state road 474 near Savonranta and the municipality of Heinävesi. The structure of the road has failed, and there is a lot of frost damage on the road. In the worst places, you can't drive a car unless you're in your 20s or 30s. There are plans for the road to improve the road structure and rebuild the road. All that's missing is the money, so let's add it. Mr President! The transport objective of the province of South Savo is to ensure safe and fast transport of important heavy goods traffic and to improve daily mobility by increasing the smoothness and safety of passenger transport throughout the region. I hope that the State will support these objectives. Unfortunately, the state's road paving money is about EUR 6 million lower this year than last year in the South Savo, North Savo and North Karelia region and the so-called repair debt is no longer available for the paving sites. This means some 150 km less coating for us. Among other things, I hope that this amending budget will change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u156	Madam President! This government's amending budget comes at a time when you can say that the Finnish economy is doing well externally. That's absolutely true. We're doing great. The economy is growing after long, long black years, when we were at a very low level, even with a debt-taking rate of EUR 10 billion per year — not quite up to that point, but very worrying figures. However, it is noteworthy that even in these circumstances, when the economy grows, jobs are created, net borrowing still amounts to EUR 1.7 billion for this year. This must be borne in mind by the Finnish Parliament and, in particular, by the opposition, that even though the criticisms have come to an extreme – and the government already knows this – we simply no longer have the chance to go back to the era that the opposition, among other things, presented in the May Day speeches, is that 4 billion will be distributed there and another 4 billion will be distributed here. We don't have that time anymore. Economic growth is estimated to be 2.6% of GDP this year, which is a very good figure. Unemployment has fallen, new jobs have been created, but despite this, unemployment is running in that 8% category, and it is far too expensive. However, this means that unemployment expenditure on the Finnish State is in the order of EUR 4 billion. Of course, in view of the lost labour input, and then, of course, other expenditure will be incurred by municipalities when unemployed people live in different parts of Finland, the total loss of public finances from unemployment will be enormous. The question arises when we have tens of thousands of job vacancies at the moment, why we then have this kind of huge unemployment. Of course, it's a problem with encounters, but that doesn't explain everything. What, then, is the real reason that so many people are still unemployed? Of course, the fact that jobs and people do not meet, that is the deepest point of its problem of encounter, but this should now also be the position of us Finns to genuinely seek these jobs. It is true that the position of leader is not immediately obtained, has to do other jobs at times, but this should lead to the mentality of this nation that works genuinely. The cold fact is that one day we will also have to take a stand on how much new labour we need outside the borders of this country. It is clear that there is a crying shortage of specialist professionals in this country. Of course, it concerns the metal industry in its various forms, it concerns computer professionals, computer specialists, programmers and so on. There's always a shortage of top talent. Here we have the big thing for the next few years: how do we solve this problem, how do we get a skilled factor for available jobs, and as many of these factors as possible would be Finnish on the unemployment card today? This is what the government, parliament and employers' organisations and society as a whole must make a genuine contribution to. To the billions of dollars that go into the cost of unemployment each year, this nation will not be able to afford much longer. It is worth remembering, in this economic situation, that, although it looks relatively good at the moment, it must also be seen that Europe clearly raises its head to the first chance that the next recession will be quite near. The fear of rising interest rates and, in particular, the moderate protectionist policy pursued by the United States has caused uncertainty on the world market, and on the day the interest rate starts to rise, this situation in the Finnish state's own economy and what we pay annually will definitely draw attention to. This year, it is estimated that the interest rates on government loans will be EUR 1.2 billion. If the interest rate doubles, we'll be spending EUR 2.5 billion on the interest rate. Finland has such a good creditworthiness that such interest may not be the first to go, but the cold fact is that interest must be taken seriously and the economy must be kept under control. In this debate, when many have spoken about, for example, this competitiveness pact, which was concluded by the social partners, it has been criticised in harsh terms, our competitiveness is entirely up to two things: what is the price of Finnish products and what is the cost of Finnish work and how well we can sell our products on the world market. Trade takes place when the product is good and of high quality and the price is reasonable. Of course, it cannot be the cheapest if the best is sold, but if we cannot guarantee that good quality and affordable price, then the Finnish export industry will not succeed. And look at today's situation in Finnish ports today: once the economy has grown, there will be a huge shortage in ports, for example, of narrowers. There is a shortage of labour there, too, when there are so many ships leaving that the port is not going to be able to catch up with the current workforce. That is why this nation must now and finally realise that we must all do so during this Parliament and also during the next Parliament, that this growth will continue. We are dependent on the interest market and the global situation, but quite a bit we can do ourselves. EUR 4 billion in the cost of unemployment — and today I was listening at one occasion to a platformer who mentioned that almost EUR 3 billion per year is spent, for example, on housing subsidies and the benefits paid through it, and that in practice goes a little more when the municipal contributions are put on top of it through income support. Yes, we have our own affairs to attend to, not just threats from outside. Madam President! Finally, I hope that, while we are now dealing with the reform of social welfare and health care, we will have to make not only economic decisions but also reforms. The old structures must be reformed. What was modern 20 years ago no longer works today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u157	Madam President! Many road projects are progressing during this term of government, including in my own province. For example, this amending budget proposes EUR 4.64 million for the renovation of Kuhasalontie in Joensuu. This funding is very important because at the same time I saw: The renovation of the Joensuu railway yard is now moving forward. In this renovation the bridge across the railway yard will be demolished and a completely new bridge will be built. At the moment, under the bridge goes one track, in the future seven. The reason for this is that the railway yard is spread southward by about 300 meters. In the same context, it is planned to build a pedestrian and cycling underpass from Tapionkatu to Lillukkatie. The renovation of the Kuhasalontie is the first piece of the massive renovation of the Joensuu railway yard. The total cost estimate for the project under the responsibility of the Finnish Transport Agency is over EUR 80 million, and little more than half of this cost estimate relates to rail works and safety equipment. Mr President! I hope the government will continue to understand the development of the Joensuu railway yard. This is a good start.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u158	Madam President! The amending budget always provides an opportunity to hold a debate not only on the budget but also on the economic situation. In fact, there are five messages in this amending budget: First of all, the government continues to tackle the shortage of labour. The availability of skilled labour will be promoted through various training courses. The total additional effort is EUR 60 million. The Sipilä Board of Directors also secures the operating conditions for domestic food production until the end of the Government term. The routes are still being set up in different parts of Finland, not very large but still, and new investments are being made possible. Fourthly, the road mapped out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is progressing one step at a time. And perhaps fifthly, the fact that the budget is being balanced. With economic growth and employment improving, public finances are well balanced. With regard to the availability of skilled labour, it is important to introduce one-off rapid training measures to improve the availability of skilled labour, to which, as I said, an increase of EUR 60 million is proposed for the administrative sectors of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Similarly, a total increase of EUR 29 million is proposed for public employment and business services, of which EUR 24 million will be allocated to business-driven labour market training and EUR 5 million to growth service pilots to be launched to promote employment in difficult labour markets. We have been talking about fairway funding, and that is where we are faced with very big challenges when there is a huge amount of repair debt. Although there has been a very important road repair debt programme in this parliamentary term, almost EUR 1 billion, we are facing major challenges when there are also a lot of development projects. There are a number of smaller projects here. I would pick up from there the improvement of the ramps of Perno and Ihala and the construction of traffic lights to facilitate traffic at Meyer Shipyard. An amount of EUR 3.4 million is proposed. It is quite close to the shipyard, and it is really necessary to repair those because of the growing traffic. EUR 2 million is proposed for the development of an airport that replaces Malmi. That landing at Malmi Airport is a terrible play, and now we're in a situation where we're gonna have to pick up a new one. As regards agriculture, this is a proposal prepared for the current budget line, according to which the payment of compensatory allowances for natural handicaps in agriculture for 2019 is considered to be in line with the compensation for 2018. It is estimated that this will require an increase of some EUR 21.5 million. This is necessary. The Government also decided to allocate an additional EUR 10 million to the Agricultural Development Fund. However, agriculture is investing, at least to a certain extent, more and more. Following the increase in 2018, transfers to Makera would amount to a total of EUR 49 million in accordance with the Government Programme. The transfer of EUR 10 million is part of the management of the previous year's difficult year's roof year. This decision will restore to Maker the amount which, for budgetary technical reasons, was lent to the refund of the energy tax last autumn. This budget includes this energy tax refund, which will be paid to farms in the autumn in connection with the refund of the normal energy tax. So it's for last year's crop damage, unfortunately. In Western Finland, for example, it seems that another year of roofing is born. These weather conditions in Finland may also change through climate change — the dry springs, the rainy autumns — and it is regrettable that we do not have a crop damage system that Parliament otherwise required in connection with this energy tax refund decision. Mr President! In Finland, I think we should talk about inclusive economic growth, involving people. It is precisely the first thing to involve people in economic growth. Growth belongs to everyone by giving people themselves the opportunity to demonstrate their own contribution, their own activity. The second part of this is, in my opinion, active investment in knowledge, education, innovation for businesses. It is important that productivity can be increased in Finland, including companies, regions, all involved in this Finnish economic growth. It is a central line that wants to build a well-being society, favours entrepreneurship, hard work, but at the same time involves people and gives people the opportunity to make their own contribution, their own activity, which is essential. There has been a return to Finland, Mr President, as a result of the strategic programme and work of the Sipilä Government. It is now important to continue to do so, and I believe that the Finns are already giving it their support. In the future, we will not go back to the time of inaction that took hold of Finland during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u159	Madam President! One of the former Presidents of the Republic used to say that ‘it would be unhappily’ —and it would be unhappily so if the Finnish economy had been able to achieve economic growth in the international economy, the EU region and the euro area. I'm glad he's made it. However, as Mr Orpo has said here, this 2.6% this year and 2% next year will in no way deviate from the prospects of growth in that EU region and in the international economy if the international economy is forecast to grow by between 3% and 4% and in the EU. Considering how deep we have been, then it is quite easy to get that growth when we go on a true basis. But it is good that this economic growth has been achieved and that it will improve employment. After all, the Finnish business structure is investment-intensive, and it usually means that you get delayed from a slump and you crash with a delay, but this is a mild comfort. If the bad prospects that inevitably exist in the world and the political instability, the price of oil, the changes in the ECB's monetary policy and hence the risk of interest rates are realised, then this economic turmoil may be rather short-lived. Well, as far as the debate on competitiveness is concerned, I would like to reiterate that, in my actual speech, no matter what you think, it is absolutely incomprehensible that, in the longer term, Finnish competitiveness and the possibility of Finnish business on the international market and hence employment and economic growth should continue to be based on cutting wages, extending working hours and cutting back on teaching, research, product development and knowledge, as has happened during this parliamentary term. Yes, the sources of competitiveness are quite elsewhere. Small praises must indeed be given to the government for the ‘crunchy’ skills and training that is being provided in this additional budget. Although it is a small part, there are important subjects, and as a small example, I would mention that it is also possible to receive student aid for basic education outside the adult education centres. This applies to those who have an immigrant background who have exceeded their compulsory education age and it is important that they are thus allowed to be covered and supported in basic education. Mr President! One detail that this includes: these same economists, who, in the opinion of some today, had a great deal of excitement, also proposed a firm approach to cutting subsidies for businesses. This additional budget again includes 46 million for a company previously known as Talvivaara, then Finnvera and now Suomen Malmi Refinery Ltd. So now 46 million will be capitalised on it. Well, it's budget neutral because that money is taken from industrial investment, from other funds previously allocated there. I would have asked Minister Lintilä if he had been there, if there was no need for them to invest in industry. And when so much is said about how well things are going at the moment in Winterfell — and it is a good thing that things are going well — is this kind of capitalisation of 46 million into these corporate arrangements really necessary there? In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say that the left-wing coalition will certainly reject these freedom of choice pilots and the extra 100 million, such as the 100 million which, when this item is open, has been granted in the actual budget, contrary to the principle that there should be law in force when money is granted in the budgets. This is something that I am sure will continue to debate after this, because it is certainly questionable from the point of view of political credibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u160	Madam President! It was not enough to say that these transport projects are of paramount importance to this nation, and in this parliamentary term we have already put nearly one billion more in basic infrastructure management than in previous years. It is worth remembering that quite a lot has already been done here, but of course nothing can be satisfied until all roads are in order. Then there is the ideal situation — but it would require an additional contribution of about 2 billion compared to the present, so that these care waste can be removed. In other words, if the finger pointing at something, it has been a scarcity for Parliament when these huge projects have been built, and basic maintenance and maintenance of the basic route have been left to a disadvantage. Today, the cold fact is: take a look at where this current economic growth originated — the forest industry started investing. Voice Coke is a good example. But do not forget, brothers and sisters, that we have dozens of projects in the provinces around Finland. Growth is everywhere in Finland. The thinking that only the capital region has growth is not true. That is not at all true. Tens of large investments are ongoing in different parts of Finland. Where are they standing? There are permits in the regional government office, there are papers on the officials' desks, and they are not allowed. Is that what you think, Mr Uotila, is the right way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u167	Mr President! I would like to comment on transport, but before that, when Mr Hoskonen spoke about business activities across Finland, today Helsingin Sanomat wrote about the Iisalme region how the industry is doing and is doing well there. We have an export industry. There are many such regional cities in Finland: Uusikaupunki, Rauma, Pietarsaari, little of Loimaa has such export activities. It can be said that Finnish exports are not here in Helsinki. There's really one Russian shipyard here, but do you think there's any orders there right now?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u170	Mr President! I do not wish to prolong this debate on the amending budget, but Mr Hoskonen's excellent words of inspiration did give rise to some ideas that I would like to put on the parliamentary record. When we talk about transport policy, we can unfortunately see that Finland is living in Helsinki, especially here in the capital region. I have always wondered in some way that it is a capital with no energy of its own, no water of its own, there is no food, and in fact the majority of people have been exiled here at the time — the alternative was hanging — and then Helsinki has started to develop. [Caribbean interlude call] There are between 5 and 5.5 million Finns, and we speak our fine national language, some Swedish and some Sami and a little more, but overall, if we are not a united people, we will not succeed. It's kind of the same thing that we used to do during the Winter War and the Continuation War. Then Finland was one, and today too we need it so that we can compete internationally. Today there is controversy about how much the present Sipilä government has accomplished. Of course, it has been possible to move the economy forward through difficult solutions, and it is also evident from the results: gross domestic product is growing, exports are drawing, employment is falling down at the moment, and what is also important is that the level of government debt is falling. As long as the government debt grows, we eat from the table of children and grandchildren because they pay that debt, and then they remember this era, that there were decision-makers who felt that their standard of living was more important than then for future generations. It cannot be right, it cannot be right in the whole of Finland when looking at things. Mr President! To this end, before Mr Uotila goes on other important matters, I say that I have always wondered about the offer of the Left Alliance on how to raise this Finland. If the working day were shorter or shorter, I find it difficult to understand how it would increase this national income. When each of us has been able to compromise a little and move things forward through it, it will help it, but if we do less work, then my logic does not go any further than how it would improve Finland's economic position. It's just like this. As we are all well aware, the old saying is that you are ‘bread-bread-bread-bread-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-butter-buttered. Do we have to do this or not? It's just one of those economic laws that you have to do your job and you're gonna do your job. And in that sense, the great thanks for the economic upturn of the present are due to Finnish workers, entrepreneurs, creators, all those who have built this nation together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u171	Mr President! Many times when you listen to this debate in the Chamber, you do not want to believe the reports in which, for example, according to the UN, Finland has been ranked as the happiest country in the world. As the global economy continues and the competitiveness of Finnish companies and businesses has improved, we have been able to take on more markets, and this has enabled the economic growth that is also being recorded in this additional budget. The fact that this would be possible in the future requires that structural reforms can continue to be carried out in Finland, is agile and is able to ensure that productivity increases and employment rates increase. It all makes it possible that Finland can continue to be the happiest country in the world and that Finns can continue to find work in Finland. This is the kind of investment that is required in this additional budget. This is a good continuation of the increase in credibility that it is worth investing in and that it is worth trying here. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u172	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Minister Leppä has asked for a presentation, but I don't think he's here right now. — Mr Kulmala, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-06-06-ps-62.u173	Madam President! The proposal proposes the repeal of the Law on Loan Grains and Seed Funds. The proposal would put an end to the series of loans and seed funds, which no longer serve the purpose of those laws. This is no wonder, because the system of loan grain and seed funds dates back to the Swedish regime. The purpose of the loan grain has been excellent. In other words, the purpose was to obtain, maintain and charge seed or edible cereals or both. The seed fund had at least the same purpose, i.e. to provide financial resources for the purchase of seed, mainly in the event of a loss. However, under the present circumstances, loan grain and seed funds have lost the meaning of the law. According to studies carried out in recent years, there are still seven tranches of loans or seed funds. Within two years of the entry into force of the Act, the granaries and seed funds to be discontinued shall report on their assets, taxes and assets, and transfer assets and assets after the payment of debts to agricultural activities and inform the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry of the measures taken. If the measures are not taken within the prescribed period, the assets, assets and liabilities of the tranches of loans and seed funds shall be transferred to the municipality or to the estate. The municipality and the estate must then use the assets and funds for agricultural activities in their territory. The proposal is not estimated to have significant financial implications or effects on the functioning of the authorities. I believe that this is a good and necessary proposal because the repeal of laws will at the same time eliminate unnecessary regulation.
