ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 28/2018 vp. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 18 December 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u2	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 18 December 2018. Let us proceed to the detailed examination of section 25.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u3	Mr Yanar's proposal 11 and Mrs Kymäläinen's proposal 12 relate to the same appropriation, so first we shall vote against the 12 proposals and against the report that has won them.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u4	Proposals 21 and 22 containing the same content by Kari Uotila and Ozan Yanar, and proposals 23 by Suna Kymäläinen and 25 by Peter Östman concern the same appropriation. First, we shall vote on 25 proposals against 23 and then against 21 and 22 proposals with the same content. Finally, we will vote against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u5	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 18 December 2018. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of Section 26.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u6	Mr Yanar and Mr Uotila's proposals 2 and 3 of the same content and Mr Paatero's proposals 4 and Mr Blomqvist's proposals 5 concern the same appropriation. First, we will vote against proposal 5 against proposal 4, then against proposals 2 and 3 with the same content and, finally, against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u7	Mr Blomqvist's proposal 24 and Mr Uotila's proposal 25 are of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u8	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 18 December 2018. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 27.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u9	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 18 December 2018. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 28.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u10	Mr Yanar's proposal 7 and Mr Blomqvist's and Mr Laukkanen's proposals 8 and 9 of the same content concern the same appropriation, so first we will vote against Amendments 8 and 9 of the same content and against the report that has won it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u11	Kari Uotila's proposal 12 and Timo Harakka's proposal 13 relate to the same appropriation. First, we will vote against 13 of the proposals and then against the report that has won.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u12	Thomas Blomqvist's proposal 14 and Päivi Mrs Räsänen's proposal 15 is of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u13	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 18 December 2018. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of Section 32.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u14	Mr Blomqvist and Mr Östman's proposals 15 and 16 of the same content and Mr Uotila's proposals 17 concern the same appropriation. First, 17 proposals with the same content will be put to the vote against 15 and 16 and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u15	Tarja Filatov's proposals 39 and 40 and Kari Uotila's 42 are of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u16	Kari Uotila's proposal 56 and Sari Essayah's proposal 57 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the proposal 57 against 56 and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u17	Thomas Blomqvist's proposal 66 and Ville Vähämäki's proposal 68 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on the proposal 68 against 66 proposals and then on the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u18	The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 18 December 2018. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 35.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u19	Riitta Myller's proposal 18 and Kari Uotila's proposal 19 relate to the same appropriation, so 19 proposals against 18 are put to the vote and then against the winning report.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u20	Presentation of Section 30 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u21	Mr President! In its report, the committee deals extensively with the profitability of agriculture and notes that the acute problem of the profitability and liquidity of agricultural holdings is serious. In 2018, the profitability of agriculture will fall to the weakest in the 21st century. The Natural Resources Centre estimates that the annual entrepreneurial income of full-time and larger farms will fall significantly. In addition, profitability has been influenced by poor weather conditions in the 2017 and 2018 growing seasons. The Committee welcomes the fact that the government has decided on national measures aimed at facilitating a difficult situation. A total of EUR 30 million will be added to national income support measures and EUR 37.5 million will be added to natural handicap payments. In addition, access to bank loans for agricultural holdings is to be facilitated. It is positive that the situation of farmers will also be facilitated through measures in other administrative sectors. A further EUR 3 million will be proposed for the intermediate farmer project and the temporary reduction of the late interest on payments to farmers under the Farmers' Pensions Act will continue. In addition, the refund on the energy tax on light fuel oil used in agriculture will be increased. The measures included in the draft budget aimed at improving the long-term viability of agriculture are also necessary. The aim is to improve the role of the primary producer in the food chain and to strengthen the expertise and network of experts in food exports. The committee also expects concrete measures from the working group on agricultural profitability. The committee considers that the problem of the profitability and liquidity of agricultural holdings is serious and can be somewhat alleviated by the government's support measures. However, a permanent solution to improving profitability can only be found through the development of agricultural productivity, higher market prices and cost developments. It must be possible to reduce the cost level of agriculture, for example by means of the best farm-specific solutions. For this reason, among other things, the committee will return the funding allocated to advisory organisations to the level of the current year by increasing the budget by EUR 1.8 million. The committee also draws attention to the fact that the Fund for the Development of Agriculture is estimated to be sufficient to meet the needs of 2019, but then the financial situation of the Fund is rapidly deteriorating. The committee considers it necessary to increase the capital of Makera by 2021 at the latest. The committee is concerned about the adequacy of the funding of the Natural Resources Centre and proposes a statement for adoption to safeguard its basic funding. The committee will increase the funding of the Natural Resources Centre by EUR 500000, which will be allocated, among other things, to organic research and research into peat carbon dioxide emissions. The new appropriation will also be allocated to the Food Academy project prepared by the Finnish Working Power Society, which aims to increase the interest and knowledge of Finnish decision-makers and key stakeholders in the functioning of the Finnish food chain. The committee considers it necessary to launch the project and stresses in particular the new interaction between the food chain and social actors, including the media. The Committee draws attention to municipal water management and environmental projects, which have no longer been subject to state aid in recent years. State aid could make a decisive contribution to the start-up of economically sound projects. The Committee considers that partial state support for regional water management projects is still necessary, particularly in areas where the population is growing or where the needs of industry are increasing, and increases the allocation for the construction of a body water pipeline in Haapavesi. This appropriation will also be added to the other three water management projects and decommissioning fisheries. The Committee would like to highlight the need to ensure the safety of water supply facilities and access to clean water. It is particularly important to continue to ensure that the ownership base of water supply plants is maintained at home. It is also essential to promote the export of clean water and water know-how. The Committee attaches particular importance to wolf research and monitoring and considers it necessary to take seriously the damage caused by wolves and the concern of citizens about wolves.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u24	Mr President! Thank you very much and also on my side for your excellent cooperation with the section and with the committee on these difficult issues, where we have been working together for a little over a year and a half. The section president described very well the situation that exists with regard to agriculture. It is quite clear that we have not been able to achieve the common objective we have had in terms of profitability. A lot of work has been done on that. Various reforms have been carried out. We have also been able, together with the support system, with the amending budget and also with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and also with the Ministry of Finance in terms of taxation, to put together a pot of just over EUR 80 million that will have some effect on this acute situation, and that is certainly necessary. But I also agree with the President-in-Office of the Section that sustainable profitability in agriculture can only be achieved if we are able to improve productivity, the market is working more fairly and the cost increase, the growth angle, can be managed in terms of costs. It is the way to sustainable profitability. We have also made significant increases in the investment in exports, and that is also one way forward in terms of sustainable profitability. It is absolutely necessary. And we all know that Finnish clean food has a good market in that world, and that is why export efforts are needed. President! A few withdrawals from my side, as was just the case in the introduction: For the future, the capitalisation of the Agricultural Development Fund, Makera, is absolutely essential. Until next year, there will still be enough capital to invest fully in the necessary investments. Why are these investments necessary? Because there are so many farmers and the structures become obsolete that, in order to maintain the current level of food production, we need new players and new investments, and we need instruments to do so. That is why the capitalisation of Makera is absolutely necessary — hopefully already in the next government programme, right now in 2020. Similarly, funding for research institutions and research in general is extremely important for the future. We can't compromise on that. That is quite clear, and I am pleased that the section and the committee as a whole are tabling additions. Similarly, in terms of advice, water management and so on — the research and other financial increases you have made are very much in place. I would like to mention specifically that it is also there. Factors are therefore needed for the future and investments are also needed. In the future, we should also consider what the global situation is. We are moving more and more towards the bioeconomy, which is certainly an advantage for Finland — an economic interest, a regional interest and a change of course that is absolutely essential for our climate and our environment, which we are now doing in Finland, Europe and globally. The situation is now simply that we in the world have a lot of potential for production in the bioeconomy with climate change. We have plenty of water, we have plenty of expertise, our forests are growing at a very high level. Our agriculture, our food production, is world famous, clean, and we know how to do it. It is durable with all instruments. Well, what's the result? It is certain that interest in the Finnish bioeconomy, bioeconomy production, raw materials, production potential, processing, industry, inputs, technology will increase. And here we must all make sure that we have these things in our own hands. I therefore believe that the pressure to acquire Finnish expertise, to acquire Finnish raw material production, to acquire Finnish input production, to acquire Finnish industry in the world is growing, and that is why we must have the whole food chain, the whole bioeconomy chain, in such a good blow that we can do these things ourselves. Otherwise, we will not be able to exploit the enormous resources we have, and this must be understood by all of us, just as we do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u25	Let's go to a debatable length. I would ask the representatives who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u26	Mr President! There was music to the ears to listen to the presentation of the section president. I must say that cooperation has been seamless, but I was particularly pleased when the President of the section of the leading opposition party, Mr Makera, pointed out that more funding must be made available for it in the future. The same was said in the parliamentary working group. Makera is the key to the success of our farms in the future, and then, for example, through Makera, state guarantees are now being paid which are an essential element of crisis aid. Maker's powers have prevented the upper limits from being raised properly, but it is good that they too will be restored in the future. That was the government's promise.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u27	Mr President! First of all, I would like to point out that it is right to support those in difficulty, perhaps the largest and most socially stimulating situation in the agricultural sector. At the same time, of course, we must bear in mind that agriculture, food production, the food system cannot be based on the granting of continuous crisis packages, but we must also develop system and system-level reforms. We need to adapt, we need to develop, we need to reform, and agriculture, food production, in order to safeguard its operating conditions, must have social acceptability. That is of paramount importance. Mr President! I would particularly like to thank you for the contributions made to that side of Metsähallitus in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. I would just like to say that those additions are not enough, and we need to invest more. It is in the interests of all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u28	President! For the Finnish food cluster, the most important thing is how Finland succeeds in its objectives with regard to funding for the next programming period, and therefore all the support and actions needed in this negotiation process are now important for the whole Finnish Parliament and the various lobbying bodies, and that is why Finnish society must act in such a way that, in this very difficult situation, as far as possible, resources are available not only for basic agriculture itself but also for all these underdeveloped regions. Another important point, as the section president, the minister and also the chairman of the committee said, is that in terms of productivity, Makera can also be financed in the next government programme in the same way as in previous government programmes. These are the threshold questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u29	Mr President! The section president raised the issue of improving access to loans for farmers. I would also like the Minister to open up a little bit about how this is to be ensured, because just recently there was news that farmers today are being forced to resort to high-interest speed levers in order to survive the next day. I would also like the Minister to be able to open up the way in which this budget has ensured the protection of the activities of the Organic Institute. So we have one national Organic Institute, located in my home town of Mikkeli, and its task is to support the national objectives of increasing the use of organic products and increasing the use of domestic food in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u30	Mr President! This profitability is certainly the top priority, and that is what both the section president and the minister referred to. Of course, this 80 million solution is extremely important, and what Mr Kalli referred to is even more important: the success of the negotiations for the next financial period and all the contacts that we can use to promote this issue, everyone must of course use it. That is extremely important, and the Minister has done a good job in it, and thank you for that. In fact, however, I would like to bring up this completely new study from VTT on the impact of this fall. Here are a few rather interesting points. Of course, it has been a good thing for the consumer and, of course, it has been a good thing that it has mainly come from improving the efficiency of trade's own operations. However, the proportion received by the farmer has also decreased according to this study. The most striking thing about it for me was that butter and margarine have been sold for a whole year at a lower price than what was paid for it itself. So has it happened that Finnish food has become such an in-house product for trade in some houses,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u31	Mr President! The last couple of years have been, above all, extremely damaging and difficult for agriculture. The state of nature and the weather have been such that they have caused unprofitability in agriculture. It's been a very difficult situation. However, the size of the farms has been growing all the time, and they are making big investments, and there is a lot of money caught up in it. There has been a lot of discussion about how this support system could be developed. I would like to ask the Minister what measures can be taken to ensure that the aid scheme supports this particular enterprise and work in order to be better able to manage the farm there?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u32	Mr President! It is quite a matter here to thank both the Minister for his work and the committee and the section and its President for their presentation. The right measures have been taken. The Food Markets Act is the first one I want to mention, and this research funding is the next one that should be put in order to ensure that climate change challenges agriculture every day. Last summer we have seen what it means when it is so dry that nothing grows, and preparing for it requires agriculture to have its own research money. Thank you for the effort contained in the committee's report. All in all, the question is that we cannot afford to lose the opportunity to produce our own food. It is our most important life insurance policy in the world of climate change in the future. Against that background, we will need to take steps in the future to build confidence that farmers believe that this industry is also the livelihood of the future. We're working on it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u33	Mr President! The viability of this agriculture must be a concern for all of us. When we know that Finland in Europe produces the cleanest and safe domestic food production, we must do everything we can to ensure that these producers have their share in the food chain. We must also ensure and make it possible for young people to dare to take control of the farm. Then there are just a few points about agriculture: it is indeed here that, for example, if a small amount is allocated to secure the village shopping network, village shops could act as multi-service centres. Secondly, this 4H activity, which I would like to highlight. There's a budget going on. As a person living in rural areas, I think it is very important that 4H produces different activities for children and young people there. It's the only hobby for many young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u34	Mr President! First of all, I would like to join in thanking the Minister. The main problem with agriculture is poor profitability, as has been said many times here. Despite the increased production costs, producer prices have not risen even close to the same pace for years. The rise in production costs, the fall in producer prices combined with the really challenging summer months, in recent years, has pushed more and more farms into real straits, and this cannot continue. The crisis package accumulated by the government in early autumn was a good gesture and emergency aid, but it is clear that a sustainable solution to the profitability problems can only come from the market. Against this background, I very much welcome and welcome the fact that the budget includes the creation of a post of the Food Market Ombudsman and the related budgeting of the item of the Food Authority. I ask you, Minister: do you see that the new delegate has the necessary resources and powers to achieve balance and fair play in the food chain?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u35	Mr President! As a member of the section and as a member of the committee, I would like to thank the Minister, and in particular the section president and the chairman and members of the committee, for the good and fair conduct of the meetings. The phenomenon has now taken place that Parliament as a whole is on the issue of Finnish food production and agriculture, and that is how it should be. It is a pan-European phenomenon because food production is of paramount importance for each country. As Mr Satonen has rightly mentioned, we all still have challenges. Farmers get too little money on the market, the cost structure is too high compared to what needs to be made on the market, and we must try and do something about these. I am particularly pleased that it has now been widely understood the importance of exports from this very point of view that farmers are better able to obtain money from the market. These are the right measures that three food experts have already been added to our delegations to promote Finnish exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u36	Mr President! I too would like to thank the Minister, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the chairman of the Section for Agriculture for a very good cooperation. And just as Mr Eestilä said, we have the same picture of the situation, we share the same concern about Finnish agriculture. I would now like to raise two points: Today Luke and PTT presented a study report on food price margins. It is truly regrettable that they have such old data, which is the latest since 2016. This tells us something about transparency, and that is why it is extremely important that we now have an agent under the Food Law, who can open up its price mechanism to researchers in particular. And another point very quickly: I am also a little concerned about the original labelling. The new phenomenon is,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u38	Mr President! As has already been shown by a number of speeches, this profitability is the most important thing, which must be brought to a much better level. Production input prices have risen year by year but producer prices have remained unchanged. With a view to the future, too, this investment must remain at the heart of our efforts and, as a result, we must invest more. At the moment, we are in a situation where we actually have an investment deficit in all sectors of production, which means that some 10,000 replacement dairy cows would be needed for milk production, for example, at the moment, with less than 7,000. We must also take into account the fact that our own primary production will determine the future of food production as a whole, and under no circumstances can our food industry be based on imported raw materials, and that is why this chain must be kept together.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u39	Mr President! Yes, I like to say that primary production is like a shipyard in the maritime industry. Innovations around it enable the development and development of domestic food and the entire food chain in Finland, and this is particularly important. But we are now in a factual situation where climate change is an inconceivable truth and extreme weather phenomena have become commonplace and will continue to be so. I would have challenged the Minister a little: now that we have seen this system of replacing these and running to help at that point, as the government has wisely done now, is this remodelling of our crop damage system to respond in a more systematic and logical way to what it is? It seems that, in this situation of profitability, primary producers cannot afford to convince their crops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u40	Mr President! I would also like to thank the President of the Section, Mr Wallin, for his very good cooperation and for the very good introduction. Things have been moving forward a lot. This is an important issue, and it is a good one if, as must be found, there is a common view across party boundaries that the future government programme will record the capitalisation of Makera, because it is a crucial factor. With regard to these additions to the section, I would like to raise two such strategic issues: The second is clean water projects. After all, they were closed in 2014, and that article was closed down, but now, through this case in Haapavesi, the use of another item was achieved by amending the decision and it was an important matter of principle — it serves Valio’s factory in a very important way. The other is this Food Academy thing. We have the Forest Academy, the Energy Academy and so on, but we also need extensive national cooperation and interaction between different stakeholders around this food. In this respect, I believe that this Food Academy, which comes to the shelters of the Working Power Society, can open up the acceptance of large-scale citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u41	Mr President! It is good that this Makera has become such a central issue here. After all, this whole food chain employs 340,000 Finns and, in that sense, Mr Eestilä rightly said that this is a matter for the people as a whole. In this sense, Europe as a whole is now on the side of its own food production. It is extremely important that this capitalisation of Makera should be increased because we have quite a structural change at the moment. The latest information is that the number of pig farms will fall to less than a thousand, the number of dairy farms will continue to fall,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u42	Mr President! At the beginning of the parliamentary term, the KD left the only intermediate issue of this term, and it was a heartwarming debate that took place in the Chamber, and the whole opposition was in agreement with that. In my opinion, this was a new turning point in Finland's agricultural policy, that there is such unity and a spirit of unity in the Finnish Parliament. The government has actually done what can be done this season. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I can prove that the effort has been good and hard. The representative, Mr Nylund, mentioned, among other things, this original marking. That's something I'm worried about too. One brief concrete example: I went to a store, a domestic chain. There was cheese under the brand name “Best Farming”. When I translated the package, the country of manufacture was Holland and it was packed in Estonia. How many Finns understand it when it says with a big brand
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u43	Mr President! In his own speech, the Minister rightly said that Finnish agriculture needs factors and needs investment. Of course, there are many, many different things in the field now. Do we have the courage to invest? Do we have the courage to make a generation change? There are a lot of things that weigh on you, and I'm sure we'll think a little about it, too. But, Minister, this is my traditional Christmas boat question: when this is the case and many young farmers are wondering what is being done about the farm — shall we go on, invest in what is being done — what is the message of a respected minister now for these young people, for those who are thinking about their future, for those who are thinking about agriculture and for those who are thinking about the continuation of agriculture?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u44	Mr President! Securing the conditions for domestic food production is one of our key tasks, and it is important that the committee, in this report, wishes to strengthen the resources of the Natural Resources Centre in order to channel resources into research, processing and thus respond to the changing farming conditions resulting from climate change. We also need more domestic vegetable protein production for human consumption. The issue of the capitalisation of mackerel was raised, and I would actually like to ask how Mr Makera can currently be used, among other things, to invest in biogas. After all, there is a lot of potential for biogas production in rural areas, and now many people have converted their cars into gas, and domestic biogas is the best and most worthwhile fuel for this. Can Makera finance investments, support investments in biogas production in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u45	Mr President! The environmental compensation is expected in 2020 to be approximately EUR 60 per hectare. Nor can new organic agreements be concluded from next spring. The problems are inherited from the previous government period and also from the fact that the funds of the current fund period had to be used to manage the previous financial period. However, Minister, can you assure us that this is not a permanent change to agri-environmental policy and can you assess whether suitable government parties will be able to improve the situation next spring?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u46	Mr President! It is, of course, great that we all agree that we must work hard to make this profitability work, and the best speeches have probably already been made. As far as Kemera is concerned, while much has been said about whether wood in forests and how industry can get the needed wood, Kemera's funding is in good shape in this proposal and must be supported. Of course, I myself would have liked to see the point of water management projects maintained, and I am sorry that when I was away from here for a few years, it was immediately wiped out. It is important for agriculture to have clean water for domestic animals as well. But my actual speech is suddenly about predators, although it does not necessarily belong to the Minister. I was at Wildfire, and there the Director of the Game Centre told me that there is currently such a situation in Brussels that significant changes are likely to be made in the hunting of bears and lynx. Is this the case that stock management hunting will no longer be possible in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u47	Ladies and gentlemen! At this stage, before the Minister's speech, I will give the floor to the representatives of Laukkanen, Kääriäinen, Pylväs, Savola. Then to the minister for three minutes, and then let us continue a little before 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u48	Mr President! The development of agriculture and, in particular, the development of the farmer's activities is beginning to come to the point where the farmer has developed his activities to the point where the belt is beginning to run out of holes. It is often the case that every measure that is expected of them will eventually lead to a deterioration in their livelihoods, and such a cycle cannot continue for long. I would like to ask the Minister what kind of measures are now coming, quite specific measures, to ensure that the development of agriculture does not always mean that the last piece of bread comes out of the farmer's mouth.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u49	Mr President! I have such a traditional pest question. Mr. Minister, in the autumn a doctoral thesis appeared in Turku about the spread of the feared contusion also here in Finland. It is such a severe pest who can withstand frost if there were such frosts, and it is no longer a rare thing for us here on the mainland. Now that the climate is being somewhat heated by force — hopefully the warming will stop — it will increase the risk that it will land here in our own country in our forests and make a clear mark. And there are other pests than this hype, as the Minister knows very well. My traditional question has always been to the ministers — and I will continue until the end of April or until mid-March in these arenas, actually until mid-March — whether you believe that this issue of pests is well under control. Is there enough knowledge, and is it under control? And in what way do you instruct the forest sector so that it does its utmost to prevent the destruction from spreading?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u50	Mr President! Yesterday, there was a very long debate here in the Chamber about global warming and its mitigation. One of the key issues in these discussions has always been the rise of peatlands and their use as agricultural land. We have about one third of peatland land, which means that it has a very significant, large share in Finnish agricultural production. The committee has also stated that more research is needed in relation to the carbon emissions of these peatlands and the binding of arable coal, but there was no budget to be allocated this time either. I know, among other things, that Ruukki research station in northern Ostrobothnia would be prepared to carry out research of this kind as long as funding was found. So I ask the Minister: is there any way to find funding for this sort of thing, so that information can be studied on this issue of peatland and not just on speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u51	Mr President! The climate is changing and natural disasters are increasing. This means that self-sufficiency is more important than ever, how each country can produce food itself, and that is why we in Finland must also hold onto our own production with claws and teeth. Profitability is a problem. It has received crisis support and specific measures, an important measure taken during this parliamentary term, but it will not solve these problems in the long run, which must be dealt with through the market. I believe that security of supply is a key issue. Security of supply also involves the fact that we will have producers in the future. As a follow-up to Mr Korhonen's question, I would now like to ask what concrete measures we are taking to promote generational exchanges. And especially when the start-up aid is mentioned, its income limit requirement, and it will be examined as to what specificity this will hold in order that we will get the continuationers to produce clean Finnish food in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u52	Minister Leppä, three minutes would be the starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u53	Mr President! Thank you for a good start. — Thank you for the very good questions and comments. It is indeed a pleasure to see that, as several Members have said here, we have a similar picture of the situation. At the same time, I say that it is perfectly possible to make food a genuine, right growth policy, and that is what we must do and that is something that does not happen during one parliamentary term. We know and have seen how far the sector is plowing, and that is why it requires a range of measures, starting with the profitability of primary production, ensuring security of supply and ensuring that our industry operates in an efficient, good way, our trade and the food market operate in a fair way and our exports are at the level that it should be. In this respect too, Mr Eestilä rightly mentioned that the promotion of exports is a long-term task and cannot be achieved in the very short term, and that is why I hope that the next government will also take on board the measures that have been taken and will continue to make further efforts in this regard. President! A few more answers to questions, comments or comments: At least Mr Kalli and Mr Satonen, the two chairmen of the committees, and also the chairman of the committee, drew attention to the fact that in the next term, in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy, we will be able to secure adequate funding for agriculture and rural development. This is the starting point of the Finnish Government. We do not accept the financial cut that has now been made out of these headlines, but we are pushing for much larger readings, that is to say, we want to maintain it at the current level. It is a government line, and hopefully this line will also win. It is absolutely necessary. It cannot be that we have a growing demand for farmers and a reduction in funding at the same time. This is an impossible equation. The equally impossible equation is that we demand the best food in the world here, but at the same time we are not prepared to pay for it. This is an impossible equation, just as impossible an equation is also this. I am very pleased that the committee provided more money for the funding of the Organic Institute. It does a remarkable job and works well with Luke and with the university definitely. Mr Viljanen and Mr Nylund then asked here about the food market law. It is a very good thing that it has now been approved by Parliament, thanks to it, and a EUR half million resource now exists for the Food Market Commissioner and his office, and I think that is enough at this stage. It is also important from the point of view of transparency that the food market needs, that there is an authority there that is able to see in a genuine and timely manner what is happening on the market and what is the level of the various players' share in the market output and in the common added value that is being produced here. Origin labelling is an important part of this. They have been improved in many respects by the government, and we hope that we will now receive approval from the Commission in the early part of the year then, in other words, with regard to the labelling of the origin of restaurant food, but that is not yet certain. Representative Kiviranta asked about environmental compensation levels and new organic contracts. For both, the planned money that has been allocated to it in the last period has been spent. It has been used frontloaded on environmental compensation, even over-measuredly, and therefore the situation is that it is currently underfunded. [The President knocks ] Then the last two comments, if the President still allows: The tightening of the Habitats Directive and the transfer of power to the Commission are unacceptable. It is the wrong measure and Finland will not accept it. That is unambiguous.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u54	Thank you. That was about three minutes. — Mr Jarva, Mr Hoskonen, Mr Ala-Nissilä and Mr Paloniemi had asked to speak, but had not yet received the floor. In any case, I will admit these first of all, and then I will ask again all those who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V-button — those who still want to use the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u55	Mr President! I thank the Minister for his good preparation for the budget, and it is very good that money was actually made available for the renovation of Metsähallitus' hiking trails. This has become a lot of questions and feedback, and now thank you also for the region. In the north, it is particularly important for us local residents as well as from the point of view of tourism that hiking routes are now being set up. The additional money for bio-economy innovation is also very necessary, and I strongly support that representative. I would like to draw attention to the need to increase appropriations for research into forestry and agriculture, particularly in the peatlands in the north. With regard to open fellings, for example, it should be noted that according to Luke’s research, for example, the method of growing peat and peat in forests can lead to additional growth of wood and reduce nutrient emissions from watercourses. Otherwise, we can help farmers to promote climate change on peatlands, but more support is needed. However, in drier forest areas, a ban on open felling and a mere thinning would reduce tree growth
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u56	Mr President! Two things. First of all, this domestic food, clean food: It is incomprehensible that we have the cleanest soil, water and air in the world, all production factors in our possession, a decentralised system of food production, which is certainly the best and highest quality in the world, and yet every year between 3 and 4 billion different kinds of food are imported to Finland. Then, at the same time, we risk our own health with different diseases, different residues, such as traces of medicines, what foreign food can get for itself, or, for example, some MRSA or salmonella in the same way—timely serious diseases. I would hope that this is where we play the game, every consumer himself, for what we buy. The second thing, the major predatory situation, especially at the eastern border and Kainuu, in Upper Savo: The wolf situation has completely escaped control. For example, in the Kuhmo region in autumn 2017, Luke’s official number of wolves was 5 and the hunters fell when the deer hunt started that there were 35 wolves. When there was a snowfall, the trail was counted. There's something really wrong with this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u57	Mr President! Minister Leppä has worked hard, for example, to improve the functioning of the food market, to improve the position of primary producers in the production chain and to increase the accountability of public food supplies. These are just examples. But then there's the profitability. Despite the crisis package that has already been mentioned many times, some producers are clearly still in distress. It's the news of a quick visit. And although the Minister is not here, I would like to ask the question: what do you think the Minister and the Ministry can do about this problem? This, of course, also affects the survival and well-being of producers and farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u58	The Minister was forced to leave because of the Government sitting, but he will return here at night as this matter continued to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kääriäinen raised a very important and topical issue. The healthier the forests of Finland, the more growing they are, the more resistant they are to the attacks of pests and the more carbon they bind, i.e. both sides of the coin serve both Finnish forest management, forest cluster and all those goals. I must say that we talk a lot about the need to have more decayed wood, there must be more dead wood. The more insect-polluted wood there is and the less it is removed, the more risk that our forests will not be able to cope with it, and therefore efforts will be needed to manage the young forest, so that young forests can be shaken and maintained. Hopefully, after the roll, someone else will take care of this in the future here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u61	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that, in my opinion, this period has genuinely and truly been able to talk about the fact that food is a genuine area of Finnish growth and of the future. In that sense, I believe that we must also step up cooperation not only in the administrative field of this minister, but with all the ministries. If we think about food globally, we have a huge demand for food, we have amazing skills, but we still have a really long way to go before it is truly an area of growth and value in the whole value chain, so that the producer gets his own. This is easy to say, but it takes years, years of work. I would have asked the Minister about the fact that we have talked a lot about genuinely taking Finnish food, Finnish food as an area for Finland's future growth, but it also requires that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy do more than just one Food from Finland programme. We have to brand, do and also implement in a completely different way,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u62	Mr President! As far as agriculture and forestry are concerned, we all have a basic starting point for adding value to the food chain, including value to the primary producer. It's so important. That's one of the things you see in the budget. And in relation to Mr Skinner's speech, it must be said immediately that we have an extremely fine demonstration today, just yesterday, of how the Ministry of Labour and Life is also taking into account this whole food chain in view of the big investment in the construction of the Nurmo biogas plant, 9 million. Yesterday, in that section, I took the floor and said that it is also an indication that the government as a whole considers all the benefits of side streams to the benefit of the food chain. And as you said, Mr Skinner, this can and will in the long term also bring value added to this food chain. We've got to get our trading habits right. It's important. The Food Commissioner will start at the turn of the year, which is extremely important. He follows the activities between food companies and trade, and the position of the primary producer improves.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u63	Mr President! 24 to 25 years ago, we were about to join the European Union, and it was already seen that agriculture is going to be extremely hard on this type of community. So it has been a step by step, every few years, moving in the direction that basic agriculture is going into crisis in Finland, and in the last couple of years we have been talking about crisis packages. They have been necessary, necessary. However, everything has to be asked about Brussels, for all measures, unfortunately. So we have no independence, and a country without its own food economy does not have any real independence. There is a need for permanent solutions, not for living on crisis packages. Permanent legislative solutions can safeguard agriculture in Finland. Agriculture needs a Incomes Act to guarantee farmers:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u64	Mr President! The Minister rightly stated that the food sector would be born and should become a new growth sector in Finland, and Mr Skinner agreed. However, I personally point out that neither our legislation nor the regulations necessarily support this objective. Small entrepreneurs have far too high control and inspection fees, which, compared with large operators, results in payments per kg being of a different category than those of these large operators. That is why these public authorities' fees, inspection fees, such as meat inspection fees in small slaughterhouses, should be considered to be competitive, so that these start-ups, in particular in the food sector, can then rise. If, at the outset, the cost structure is impossible, there will be no new rise in the food sector. This is a serious and big matter in that way, and I am sure this will be the case during the next term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, within this window of time, I will also give the floor to Mr Heikkinen and Mr Halmemenpää, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Kalmar, and if Mrs Wallin, who has not asked, also receives the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u66	Mr President! A very growing forest is an excellent carbon sink, a very growing grass is an excellent carbon sink. I very much welcome the changing tone of the debate over recent weeks and months that agriculture and forestry are not a problem in climate policy, but a solution. In Finland, for example, at Luke's Maaeningan point there is an international research on grass, and I believe and hope that we will have a common will that we will also be able to take this grass expertise more and more widely to countries that are suffering from climate change in the wider sense of erosion and other extreme weather phenomena. The good efforts of industry have been highlighted here. I would also like to raise Valio's important investment decision in Nivala. That's where they're gonna make the slurry.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u67	Mr President! In this debate, an insect called the hype came up, and it is appropriate to specify the ecology of conifers in such a way that it does not live on decayed wood. In Finland, the populations of hive nuns have grown exponentially since the 1980s, and that change is obviously linked to global warming, that is, improving living conditions for this species through it, by no means to an increase in the number of decayed trees, which has not increased at all to that extent. The fight against climate change is therefore also important to prevent the spread of forest pests. Forests are of great importance to us in many ways anyway, not least from the point of view of climate change. However, the result target of Metsähallitus will rise next year, which in practice will increase the pressure to grow fellings, and while the scientific community is emphasising the conservation and growth of both carbon stocks and carbon sinks, this is a major concern for us,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u68	Mr President! There was music in my ears when Minister Leppä told me that the labels on the restaurants' origins are not giving up either, but it is also becoming more visible, and I also hope that there will be control over the shops there. With regard to public food procurement, I would like the message to be sent to Minister Lepä that now that we are moving to the provincial administration, as important as the decision in principle on state food procurement is the principle decision on the procurement of food by regional governments that public food supplies are sustainable and domestic. We have a great deal of potential for sustainable use of our natural resources on both fields and forests, and, as has been well mentioned in this few speeches, it is a solution to many global challenges, such as climate change, food supply and renewable products.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u69	And one last response to the section president, Mrs Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u70	Mr President! It has indeed been a great debate today again on the future of domestic agriculture. Today, it can be said that there are no parties in this Parliament that are opposed to domestic food production, and this is extremely important because it employs 340,000 Finns at different stages of the chain. This was not the case 20 years ago; Parliament has been united in its opinions on this. We will face major challenges in the future, this CAP reform and, as a result, restructuring. On the forest side, the use of Kemera money is currently not being used, but it is fortunately possible to transfer it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u71	This matter will be suspended due to the General Session of the Government. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u72	Let's resume today at 1.01 p.m. the adjourned session. We'll continue the conversation. Let's take a list of speakers on a trip, and then we can go to the debat if there's any need for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u73	Mr President! In recent years, Finnish agriculture and domestic food production have gone into a real crisis, and the alarming feature is that the average profitability of farms has deteriorated year by year. When the number of farms is falling all the time and the weakest farms stop production, the opposite should happen: on average, the profitability of the farms should increase. This shows that the profitability of the operation is currently also deteriorating on the best farms. Luke’s forecast of agricultural restructuring is up to 2025. By then, one third of Finland’s farms will disappear, according to the forecast. Now the total number of farms is about 45,000, and in 2025 it is estimated that there will be only about 37,000. This means that in the next seven years, three farms each day cease production. Mr President! In most cases, there are also a number of other reasons behind the dismantling of farms, which deepen profitability problems and cause crises for producer families. Many farmers suffer from deep fatigue, depression and anxiety, and they often also cause problems with relationships and alcohol. Mr President! Luke estimates the farm to be profitable, firstly if it produces an adequate interest rate on equity, and secondly if the entrepreneur receives the same hourly salary as the agricultural worker. The target is EUR 15 per hour. On average, farmers receive a quarter of this, which means that their hourly salary is less than EUR 4 per hour. Luke makes annual profitability calculations based on the financial statements of 800 farms, and at the moment the profitability crisis hits dairy farms most severely. According to the calculations, 1,100 dairy farms will stop milk production by 20 C.E. This means that 16.5% of dairy farms drive their production down in two years. Mr President! In Finland, the price of food increased between 2008 and 2013, but it has fallen since then. When comparing these years, it should be borne in mind that the euro-denominated amount to be distributed by the various parties in the food chain has decreased in recent years. According to a recent study, the decrease in the share of trade suggests that, in addition to the fall in raw materials and the cost of the production chain, trade has accelerated the fall in food prices through its own actions, such as reducing margins. Finns want to eat healthy food produced nearby. What do we have to do? We need to find a way to a better future in the crisis moods. Clean food and an innovative bioeconomy are the assets of the future. We need to make domestic food prices rise and we need to increase sales. We need to break down the auction methods for the so-called private label system in the retailers' own brands — we need to put an end to them. Finns want to eat food produced in Finland because it is not only healthy but also the best climate action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u74	Madam President! The fact that we are in this situation is the result of a long continuum. Profitability has deteriorated, primary production and entrepreneurs are in real distress. In the previous period, the government has taken a decision to support the rainy year correctly. This year, decisions have been taken to help alleviate this plight in some way. Of course, aiding distress with these criteria to target fossil fuel should be considered. I therefore hope that this government, even now, during this parliamentary term, will concentrate on doing what should be done. In other words, when we have climate change to do our job in such a way that extreme weather phenomena are commonplace and often treat regionally differently, it would be important for us to have systems — hardly a return to crop damage and a similar system, but, for example, Mrs Hautala has brought in a variety of good practical options — which would allow us to fund the state in such a way that it is also involved. If we look at the 50 million to 80 million that Parliament has blessed with the government's proposal to come to the subsidies due to extreme weather phenomena, then this equation should now be resolved. I hope that the government, under the leadership of Minister Leppa, will still be able to build a new model for the next few years, a sustainable and acceptable model acceptable to all. Good discussions have been held here in the debat, for example, on original labelling. We certainly have a common will in committee and in Parliament that we really want to know what we are eating so that we can make the choice of values as to whether we eat domestic food or food made abroad. One thing we are discussing here is also that our exports should be promoted. Well, let's say this job has now been done in a project-type way. The next government programme must have a long-term commercial effort, precisely so that foreign exports are invested in such a way that operators can be aware of its long-term and planned nature. Marketing is a skill of its own, and I would have liked to have had some money put in under this government so that producers in different regions, companies, would have gone out and applied for a name-protected brand for their own product. We are left untapped by the fact that the EU makes its own money possible for the marketing of name-protected products. We haven't used it. We need to bring new elements to the effect that if we have, for example, a joint biogas plant project between four primary producers, we need to be able to support these and put potential in it. It is that renewable energy, and there must be no tax obstacles so that this cooperative body cannot use it without energy tax in the way we currently have. Hopefully, the fact that if you have the wrong plot of the plant, then you will have to pay the transfer price for energy that there are such obstacles. It improves the profitability of rural areas and creates widespread access to renewable energy, still making our primary production more acceptable. Finally, what I said in the debate: we must understand that primary production is like a shipyard in the maritime industry. It creates the innovations, it makes it possible to create an entire chain and our food chain in this country and to maintain it. We must take care of self-sufficiency, as I think the Minister has said — well, someone said that we cannot rely on the food industry to rely on imported products. Yes, we need our own quality primary production.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u75	Mr President! The main problem with agriculture is poor profitability. As has already been said several times here, despite the increased production costs, producer prices have not increased for years. Production costs have risen. The fall in producer prices, combined with challenging weather conditions, has put a lot of farms really under pressure. The crisis package accumulated by the government in early autumn was a good gesture and emergency aid, but it is clear that a sustainable solution to profitability problems can only come through stronger prices on the market, as has already been said here. However, the situation has been that two market-controlled trades have driven and marketed a variety of food reduction campaigns rather than increasing prices. Fortunately, one of these has launched a campaign that consumers can directly vote for Finnish food production and farmers by buying their products. And this campaign has recently improved considerably as domestic raw materials produced by domestic companies were taken as campaign products instead of branded products produced in Finland. Mr President! So the price-fixing campaigns in stores are really putting the products and food chains in a tight spot. Today, however, a study has been published — to which representatives of Satonen and Nylund have already referred here today — on the distribution of the food supply chain between 2008 and 2016. I would like to ask the minister who has now arrived: is it necessary to use research funds for this kind of research, and what goals do you think to serve such research, where the latest review period has ended more than two years ago? Agricultural research is very important, and it is also very important to examine the market and its functioning, but research into such outdated data, particularly the fact that the results are being reported as if it were timely, is certainly not important food research. The study itself is recent, but the data on which the research is based is already unhelpably old, the situation on the market has changed substantially, the situation in the food chain has changed substantially. The marketing of research based on such data in this situation as up-to-date research, as it were, as results of research, is certainly not an important food research. This is not even right how this has been done. The research may be worthwhile in itself, but when the data are unhelpably old and are marketed as new ones with the new research, this is not right. This gives the wrong picture of the situation on the food market and, in particular, of the profitability of agricultural products.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u76	We have pre-arranged speeches on the list of speakers here, so let us go on with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u77	Madam President! The agricultural section is on the table, and I will start with the fact that when you look at that budget book, there are four important terms at the heart of next year's budget: knowledge, employment, growth, food. This may be a text read through my glasses, but see if you can find the same four things at the heart of it. When we look at agriculture, the situation of farms, the number has fallen dramatically over the last few years. It's been alarming for a long time. And why: partly because profitability has been weak for a long time — really long time. It has been extremely weak for too long, ladies and gentlemen. There was also a representative here — who was it, Laukkanen or who — who found that the belt was being tightened from the hole to the hole. This has been done on farms for years and this development in profitability has in no way been encouraging. There have been far too many years of crisis, many in a row. The crisis package goes into the crisis package. However, thanks to the Minister for last year too, the crisis package could be put in place very quickly, and the special thank-you that can be brought from the farmer's field to this Chamber was that before all the harvest had been harvested last autumn, the crisis package was already in place under the leadership of Minister Leppa and it was known how the dry summer could be compensated with state support. Madam President! The crisis package and the resilience of the crisis cannot assume that we, as a state, are ready and able to support. We cannot support this development economically, but we must find the euro on the market and also find faith and confidence and productivity in the farms, so that we will also have young producers and generational exchanges on the farms in the future. Knowledge, which is also shown in the budget, is found in a huge number of farms, and has been developed over the years. There's employment in the farms. There's enough work to do there. There would be employment there, but we cannot afford to employ people to the extent that there are jobs. There is growth, farms want to grow, there is competition for fields, but also so that optimization of their own space may not always be economically sustainable. And food: clean, domestic, Finnish food is supported there by our tens of thousands of domestic farms. These things cannot be overemphasized and I hope that we will take these into account. When we talk about Finland's growth, we also talk about how the future of our domestic food production has been taken into account here as a whole. Of the amount of employment it is necessary to say that it has also become a part of the head in the hand, and there is a need for strong support. The ‘carry on the farmer’ project, which also received additional funding, is a fine indication, as is the fact that all the project workers who work with farmers in that field, both M.C.T. and Melanie and the Work Efficiency Society’s ‘Target on the farmer’ project workers, together now in the autumn, coordinated a list of irregularities that have come up against the farms and handed it over to Minister Saariko and has started work to improve their mishaps. Madam President! We also have great expectations here as to what new models of action Mr Karhinen, the Minister's rapporteur, will also bring us early in the year on how to contribute to the future of the farms. There will probably be a review, but I am sure there will also be new things that we need to catch immediately, we must be able to take care of the roll forward so that we can also take action from them. Mr Viljanen has just made a good point about the fact that the share of trade in the food chain has decreased and the industry has grown. This is indeed strange that we, with such old information, are expressing as a fact what is not today. We know that research data for 2008, 2012, Madam President, does not tell us what is on the food market today, and that is why we need a Food Commissioner, a Food Commissioner, who will also begin to study and clarify these market chains. Agricultural research is work that we cannot belittle. We must continue to be able to invest in this, so that an ever smaller number of more committed, more skilled farmers can also benefit from the research support they need in their profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u78	Madam President! Climate change and extreme weather phenomena, loss of biodiversity and the continuing threat of natural habitats, the future of rural areas, sustainability and profitability of domestic food production, the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea, migratory fish from built rivers, alien species, ageing and declining hunters and fishermen, and balance in the policy of predatory legislation. It's a long list. Meeting these challenges requires long-term work. The essential thing is to move in the right direction. The acute profitability and liquidity problem of farms is serious. It is right to support those in difficulties, but there is also a need for changes at the level of the system. No one can be satisfied with the current state and conditions of agriculture and food production. Production cannot be based on moving from one crisis package to another. Some of the crisis support has been made through the refund of energy taxes, as was the case last year when new support for fossil fuels was created. It would make more sense to target the farms most affected by the harvests on the basis of applications than evenly for all. The whole food system needs to change, develop and improve so that we will have domestic food in the future, so that it is not wasted up to 160 kilos a year, so that its production puts as little pressure on the environment as possible and is ethical and that the Finnish food producer is doing well and can be proud of his work. The Greens announced their agricultural policy agenda at the beginning of September. We are also looking forward to opening up the debate on agriculture and food policy that is taking us forward in this area. It is good that the Committee on Finance has increased its investment in the development of the food chain and in the implementation of measures in the organic sector and local food development programmes. It is the right goal to increase the appreciation of food and to take into account domesticity, ecologicality and health. I would like to thank you for defending rural development funding, village activities and advisory organisations. At the same time, I would like to see stronger support for investments in biogas plants that could diversify the business structure of farms and contribute to the objectives of the circular economy. Mr President! The Natural Resources Centre is one of our most important research institutes providing the information needed to assess the sustainability of society’s operations. The Committee's attention to the strengthening of Luke's basic funding is right, absolutely necessary, in order to secure research on climate change mitigation and to respond to changing conditions in both agriculture and forestry, as well as in the game economy and in the use of water resources. The additions to Luke’s organic research and research into peated carbon dioxide emissions and wolf research and monitoring in Ostrobothnia, where the wolf population is in a new situation due to the spread of the wolf population to the west are also to be welcomed. The monitoring of the wolf population and participation in the debate to increase citizens' sense of security and to support police work to reduce damage is important, and there are good experiences in south-west Finland. Luke has had to reduce his operations rapidly since 2015. This appropriation has been reduced by more than 20% and despite its activity Luke has received about 2 million annually from new financial instruments, including through the Academy of Finland, only crumbs. Basic funding must be strengthened in such a way that activities, research and long-term monitoring are not jeopardised. This is not the solution to the committee's Christmas gift money. We need more permanent funding from the budget. Mr President! In the case of water and fisheries projects, improving living conditions for migratory fish will shorten at the end of the main project. Funding will fall from 8.5 million to around 4.5 million euros. There is no need to pay for state fishing roads — the water law is based on a principle in which the polluter also pays for fishing handicaps — but when, at the beginning of the government's term, those key project funds were taken out by reducing basic funding, it is also a question of cutting into all other measures for the rehabilitation of migratory fishing. It is very necessary to continue funding projects promoting the living conditions and natural growth of migratory fish stocks. Moreover, it is noteworthy that the conclusion of yesterday's Ministry of Justice's memorandum of assessment is that there are no constitutional obstacles to the subsequent opening of a water economy permit or the introduction of new permit regulations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u79	Let us open a very short debate, after which the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u80	Madam President! Congressman Halmemenpää brought up this wolf investigation here. The current situation is that the wolf population has grown exponentially, especially in Western Finland. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry took this wolf situation on its own and has heard a lot of experts. In its own draft budget, the Ministry proposed to allocate EUR 300000 to the mortgage of wolves, but it seems that it will not be very much needed because hunting clubs have not agreed to this deposit, and it is therefore now justified that it should be used for other purposes, including field work. This wolf situation is indeed very bad, and it would be desirable for the Minister to be able to respond briefly to the way forward on this issue. So far, the minister has done a lot of work on the EU front, among others, but it seems a little like skiing for an African man: the snow is high, but the landscape is changing slowly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u81	Madam President! The fish roads came up here. I would like to ask the Minister if we could consider a measure such as more stringent obligations for these power stations to build fishing roads, to build fish stairs on those which have already been harnessed? Finnish food production is special and we are also a special country from that angle of income. The origin labelling of food is one of the things on which you, Minister Leppä, have done a good job. In the store it has been expanded, but in restaurants it seems that the EU is now facing up again. What is the timetable for this labelling of food's origin also for restaurants and canteens, which you have been determined to drive, and how do you see our food being exported? I believe that good Finnish food is also of interest to the rest of the world — wussy oat, wild food, these are examples — that is, just the good Finnish basic food: clean, tasty and safe. I believe that more exports can be obtained from it in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u82	Madam President! We will certainly all share the objective of increasing the utilisation rate of domestic food so that we can get work for both farmers and those who work for Finnish food. I think it is also worth investing in technology in this context, a wussy oat as a good example of a product that is a domestic innovation and certainly has a lot of demand elsewhere. As a second point, I would like to raise this issue of the wolf, which we are talking about here in the Chamber in time. Above all, I would like us to send out the message that, within the framework of the legislation, the wolf issue must remain under consideration, and, of course, at the same time, we all need to take seriously the concern that comes from people in the regions and try to find solutions to overcome the fears that people, for example, show us in contact with wolf issues. However, quite a few issues relating to the wolf issue can be solved through prevention and joint action and also through cooperation between authorities and citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u83	And then the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, followed by the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u84	Madam President! As Mrs Hautala said there, we will also be taking a position on these wolf issues as a committee, and I would like to say in advance that unnecessary complaints from this sector must also be removed when derogations are granted. There has already been a precedent. They are granted in a judicious manner in the form of decisions by the authorities and should not be subject to unnecessary complaints. When Mrs Viljanen raised this study by PTT and Luke, it failed to mention that food price developments have gone up from 2016 onwards and there is no estimate of how this price formation has developed. It is therefore of paramount importance that we are now allowed to use this information on what is being eaten and how that price formation is distributed. Mr Halmemenpää said that the damage to crops should have been compensated for the people who have suffered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u85	And now the Minister's answer, two minutes can be liked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you again for the good speeches. Unfortunately, there was a presentation by the President and a Government sitting so that I could not be here all the time. I would like to start with this reflection by the representatives of Viljanen, Hakanen and the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmar, on the fact that this study has been carried out with outdated information. Yes, it is. This is a good indication that this transparency of the food chain is not what it should be at the moment, and that is why we are working to ensure that we know and, in particular, scientists know. These are also, we must remember, of course, business secrets, but there must be a more open way for researchers to find out this information so that the information about the distribution of the food chain and the distribution of its income and added value is up-to-date and, above all, correct. It's obvious. Several of you mentioned the crisis package as going into the crisis package. I fully agree: it is not sustainable that we should do this. It just shows what kind of basic situation Finnish agriculture, Finnish food production, is, and it has therefore been necessary to make these crisis packages. But that sustainable profitability comes only from the market. This is probably the fourth time I have said it in this debate, but I think it is so important. There is also a strong connection with the labelling of origin — which Mr Heinonen has raised here — and the promotion of that matter. I said earlier that we expect a response from the Commission early in the year to our last proposal to make the labelling of restaurant food more clear to customers, consumers and then come back to that. On the market, we have now reached agreement with the Austrian Presidency on the UTP directive, i.e. the directive on unfair trading practices, in the Commission, in the light of recent information. So it has now been accepted there, and we can take note of it with great pleasure. President! The migratory fish issue: During this parliamentary term, an unprecedented amount has been put in place to open the trails of migratory fish. This line needs to be continued. It has done a lot of good. This is a very important issue for the future. Finally, President-in-Office, the Wolf question. It is clear that we are obeying the law, all must obey, but at the same time we must also see to it that both people, livelihoods and hobbies have security, and these two things must be reconciled. That is why I said earlier that Finland does not accept that we should delegate even more power in these matters to the Commission. On the contrary, we want it for the Member States, and this work is under strong Finnish leadership in that European Union, and we will see what this will bring to the next Commission's work programme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u87	The general discussion and the section debate shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u88	We will now continue to discuss item 2.7 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. The debate on this subject will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u89	Madam President! I hope Honkonen's good enough, even though Congressman Anttila wasn't here right now. Indeed, in terms of forestry, Finland has lived in a time of quite strong growth for the last two or even three years, and especially in my own region of Central Finland there is a good time in that respect. In fact, I think this year we're gonna break another record of carrying money. Last year, in 2017, the carry-on money income in Central Finland amounted to 230 million, and the share of private forest owners was as high as 181 million, and it has been predicted that it will go beyond that. This is important in many ways. I am very happy about that. Many of these private forest owners are very low income households, which very rarely have any capital income at all, and now, after several decades of hard work, having managed their forests well, receive a little more income, and this is of course a very good thing. It has a very large impact on the local economy. As far as forestry policy and forestry are concerned, this is a crucial issue for the national economy. The product development of the Finnish forest industry has also moved forward: news was provided about the new plant started by Spinnova Oy in Jyväskylä. They're about to complete a new textile fibre pilot facility. This is also very happy news. For years, R & D inputs from the forest industry were very low in the early 2000s. Now they're on the rise. However, I believe that further product development is needed, and it should not become lazy, even though the export of pulp is taking a long time. In that sense, it is good that, in the budget for the coming year, these research efforts at the level of the budget will now also start to rise, to the necessary increase, so that these new products, new inventions will then be brought to the market later and bring prosperity and export income to Finland. However, there has now been quite a lot of discussion about this sink policy and the wider climate perspective in relation to forestry. The Natural Resources Agency recently published new calculations that carefully guide the trend towards higher felling levels than today. We must remember that these sinks — and, first of all, the stored coal in the forests — are thanks to the efforts made by forest owners, the work done by forest owners. This must always be remembered when we talk about this issue, and it deserves the attention it deserves. However, we now have ways of increasing sinks in such a way that this benefit from forestry for economic forests is not reduced. So-called climate thinnings must be made; measures for the management of young forests must be implemented in good time so that forest growth and carbon sequestration can be maintained and reforested in many areas. For example, the earth cabling of electric lines allows these wires to be reforested. There are so many of these possibilities. But we must remember that solutions for the construction of sinks come from forest owners, Finnish forest owners, and they also come from agricultural products as far as farmland is concerned. This is always good to remember. And while we are still talking about these sinks, it is also worth pointing out the alternative that if we were to go very far to restrict the use of wood today, it is clear that the import of wood would increase. In fact, 7 million cubic metres of wood were imported to Finland for processing last year. In 2006 19.1 million cubic metres of wood were imported for processing. Thus, 25 per cent of the use of wood in the year was imported from abroad. Now, if Finland were to make a significant effort to limit the use of wood, it is clear that its income would flow abroad, practically from Russia would be imported wood, and the sink effect it has would also be transferred to forests growing in Russia. So the result in this respect would certainly be plus minus zero, except that the Finnish economy would become a loser. As far as forestry is concerned, as felling increases, it is of course important that there is concern about diversity, especially in the forests of Southern Finland. There are challenges here, as we have heard recently, and in that sense it is very good that funding for Metso has now been better than it has been as a result of these cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u90	Madam President! Agriculture and forestry is an extremely important sector for Finland. On the agricultural side, we must ensure that this country is able to produce its own food, within its own borders. The fact that we're 60. To the north of the parallel, the whole of Finland, of course, does not mean that we are in some sort of difficult situation in the production of our own food, not at all, which we have always done. We survived the Winter and Continuation War because we had our own independent agriculture, and Finland was one of the few countries in the world where the nation could be fed throughout the war without any kind of famine here. Of course there was a shortage of food, but the whole thing was done with style. Now that the new CAP negotiations are starting, the common agricultural policy is on its way again, we must take care of the promise made in the EU accession agreement that agriculture should be able to operate throughout the EU, and not a million million people will be able to live through it. Since it is promised to us and is a basic condition of the Accession Treaty, it will be adhered to, and it will also be maintained that these compensatory allowances and all the related allowances will remain unchanged or even slightly increased, that we will be able to farm here. It is a rather strange situation that we have even had a debate about the fact that we should import food from that Central Europe and that would be the way to do it. That would be the biggest mistake Finland would have ever made. We have the cleanest soil, the cleanest air and the cleanest waters, and we will be able to produce our own healthy food within the borders of this country and make it an export power, because it is absolutely certain in the world in the years to come that clean food will be a selling asset in the coming years. No one can escape that fate, that is to say to keep agriculture in order. Secondly, forestry. Agriculture and forestry often go hand in hand, because for many farms the clean yield of forestry represents about half, even more, of the total output of the farm per year. In other words, the importance of forest for agriculture is also very great. On the forestry side, we must ensure that our forests are maintained at all times. The talk that logging forests is the same as destroying forests or that protection is the opposite — that is a ridiculous idea as well. Finland has lived in the forest very strongly since the war. Let's take one example of North Karelia: In time, when the Koli National Park was still forestry land, then in the early days of our independence, it was just a hole in the whole area. Now there is a big old forest — but it's all protected now and now it's leaven up, and what happens after that, I don't know. But in any case, forests grow when they are treated and beaten. The axe is the best friend in the forest, it's just a fact, and that's it. The growth of Finnish forests currently stands at nearly 110 million motors per year. We are currently spending some 75 million on it every year, which leaves us with a fair chance of increasing felling. At the moment, the sustainable harvest is 85 million mots, and in the next decade we will be able to reach 95. And now that we are discussing climate policy, Finland has a real place to play. When we keep our forests in order, we'll take care of the climate. One example has been the question of whether we should afforest so-called low-forested areas or even open areas, but there are very few in Finland. Land that leaves forestry land is usually either under construction or under roads — it is the main cause of deforestation. Those fields or other areas where the forest does not grow are very few. But we are opening up and we have already opened up a very good way to increase forest growth effectively and economically: Reasonable fertilization, such as ash fertiliser, will enable us to increase the growth of peatland forests for decades forward by targeting it correctly. After the first thinning, ash fertiliser for peatlands produces up to 1 to 2 more motors per year, and when there are more 1 to 2 motors per year in Finland and there are almost 10 million hectares of peatland in Finland, then count on it. When rationally this fertilization is done, it will both improve the growth of its forest and manage the climate very effectively. And that forest already exists, there is no need to invest in anything. Of course, every field toss or such unused area must be afforested, there is no problem with that. On the other hand, in Finnish soil afforestation takes place on its own. When ten years have been uncultivated, there is a forest already, even if nothing is planted in it. The only question is whether it is a value tree — that is something we can influence. Finally, Mr President, it is important that we take care of both our fields and our forests ourselves and keep them in good condition, which is the best life insurance for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u91	Mr President! However, it is true that we must look at it — we have profitable forestry, and forestry has long been the driving force behind our export economy. But when we talk about climate change, then our solutions, which can still be improved by means of measures, will be found not only in the forest but also in agriculture. And agriculture also has those solutions to reduce eutrophication in the Baltic Sea, for example. And it is really great that the government has already taken decisive action and put a lot of money into these solutions: now EUR 15 million for next year and a total of EUR 45 million for the prevention of nutrient spillages in the fields. That work should be pursued with determination. However, it is a fact that the profitability of agriculture has been low for a long time, and it is really great that by the end of the year a study by Mount Counsellor Reijo Karhinen is about to be completed looking for solutions to this problem. He is responsible for drawing up a list of measures to improve the profitability of agriculture and to identify measures that individual parties in the food system can take on their own. This is absolutely essential that we find a variety of ways to improve profitability, because of course if we want to eat Finnish food in the future, this must change. I would also like to praise the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry already has a significant amount of money at the bottom of the budget to repair the longwoods and routes in our national parks. That has now been very much added in the parliamentary debate, since the appropriations will be able to reduce or reduce our major repair debt, and these national parks are very important targets not only for hikers, but also for tourists coming from abroad to see our wonderful nature. I would also like to point out that I do not think it is in any way wrong to talk about both forest protection and forestry, but it is nevertheless true that forests in forestry may not always be the most diverse. It is therefore good that we also have fully protected forests. This increase in Metso funding is also very important in this respect. In the future, I would also very much welcome the fact that Metso could also be extended to other natural habitats, and now it is starting a little bit from the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u92	Madam President! For years, we have learned to appreciate the work of the Ombudsman for Children and Young People as a valuable expert on matters related to children and young people. Most recently, a food market ombudsman joined in the ranks of the mandate to enforce justice when the government's proposal for a law on the food market becomes final. This appropriation is entered in the budget as an addition to the operational expenditure of the Finnish Food Authority. It is to be welcomed that primary producers are at least entitled to some kind of right in the form of a Food Market Commissioner, when farming, milk and meat production has been at the expense of profitability on many farms for several years. Although agricultural production costs have risen, they have not been passed on to consumer prices in the food chain. The Finnish producer is conscientious and certainly produces the best food in the world, even if, as his southern European colleagues are well aware, it is actually enough. On the other hand, this is also a competitive advantage for us, because a growing number of people in the world are prepared to pay for food produced in a purely and high-quality way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u95	Madam President! In connection with the section on agriculture, many speeches today have talked about and focused on the profitability of agriculture, and it must be clearly stated that it is not very profitable at the moment. But when we look for solutions to improve the profitability of agriculture, there are no very easy ways to do so. The work of the Reijo Karhinen Group has been mentioned in many speeches and its aim is to increase farmers' incomes by about $500 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u98	Madam President! The biggest single problem in agriculture is the low profitability of production, driven by a sharp fall in producer prices between 2013 and 2014 and their continued low level. Nor can the EU's sanctions against Russia be forgotten. At the same time, production costs have remained high. Recently, the prices of fertilisers and fuels have also risen. Profitability has also not been increased by the weather conditions of the last two years. This year the profitability of agriculture will fall to the weakest in the whole of the 21st century. According to the Natural Resources Centre, the annual entrepreneurial income of full-time and larger farms falls to approximately EUR 7200. One might say with a good conscience that agriculture is an expensive hobby, which also allows you to do a lot of work and long hours. The maintenance of production alone requires continuous external funding. I welcome the fact that the Government has already decided in September 2018 on national measures aimed at facilitating the current difficult profitability and liquidity situation. At that time, a total of EUR 30 million was added to national income support measures for next year and EUR 37.5 million for natural handicaps, which will allow for a slightly higher level of support than this year. I also welcome the fact that the availability of bank loans to farms is facilitated by state guarantees on Makera. Currently, there are very few farms-understanding banks in the whole of Finland. However, bank managers also eat clean Finnish food every day and hopefully. I think it's excellent to see that there's an understanding for the Care Farmer project. Further funding of EUR 3 million is proposed for this purpose. Through this project, many farmers have received help and peer support. Madam President! Although Parliament understands the need of the farmer, these measures cannot save Finnish agriculture. The development of agricultural productivity, the increase in market prices and cost developments make it possible to find a more permanent solution, and this must also be pursued in decision-making. Madam President! As the previous representative has just said, we were about to grant EUR 300000 for wolf research and follow-up. The wolves have spread from the east to the west, so this funding would have been good to follow where the wolves are moving. I see little other benefit from this funding, even if at the same time a person is hired to participate with local residents, for example, in discussions. The discussions do not solve or reduce the problems of wolves, but reduce the number of wolves. The damage caused by wolves and the concern of citizens about wolves should be taken seriously. At present, the penetration of wolves among those living in wolf areas is considered to be mainly an understatement of people. They don't even expect much of a new wolf management plan anymore because they remember history. It would also be interesting to see how this putting on a wolf is done unless the landowner permits it. Of course, you can ride a snowmobile on the lake ice after a wolf, but what about when that wolf goes to the beach? Madam President! State aid for the development of rural livelihoods is decreasing. I do not consider this to be a good development because funding is constantly being reduced. Among other things, advice would have a multiple leverage effect on the profitability of farms and rural enterprises. This appropriation is intended to help farms cope with difficult economic times. The profitability crisis in the agricultural sector due to weather conditions in recent years is greater without advice, not less, as could be expected from funding. Madam President! 4H is a very important activity. It supports the growth of children and young people as well as the ability and desire to earn money through its own work. At the same time, this action will prevent exclusion, among other things, and create a belief in the future, especially for children and young people in rural areas. 4H-unities have a total of some 50,000 young people. One might ask which other association has such a number of young people involved. Well, maybe this is what a scout shop founded over a hundred years ago is like. Very important activities in both organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u99	Mr President! This evening will have to, but it is important to have a debate on agriculture, forestry and food policy. In terms of forestry, the outlook is bright, as was said here. On the other hand, the prospects for profitability for agriculture are weak and will have to take a turn next year. There's got to be a way. I would start with the EU financial framework, which I actually know quite well about this period. At the time, I myself worked in the EU. The then Commissioner, Mr Ciolos, defended the size of the agriculture budget and justified additional funding on the basis of environmental considerations. To some extent, he succeeded. It did bring complexity to this system. It was then thought that the market also managed profitability. This would probably have happened, but then came Russia's sanctions and counter-impositions, which confused the market, especially in Finland, but also throughout the EU. At the moment we are in front of Brexit, and in Britain we do not know what to do with Brexit. All options are bad. Does Brexi also confuse the agricultural market to some extent? This risk exists, and when, as we know, there is a risk of weather risks, of uncertainty in world trade, I think that all these things combined will make it impossible for the future financial frameworks of the EU to be cut at all. In other words, the situation has changed partly since the Commission made its own proposals. Finland must be very strict here, because it could jeopardise European food production unless EU funding is managed in this risk situation. This is where Mrs Hautala talked about the risks of agriculture in more general terms, precisely the risks of the legs — why not also the risks of disease and increasing the size of the farm create risks. Now that the EU and Finland have abandoned the crop damage system, here in Southern Finland, in the A and B regions, we no longer have a functioning legal basis when the support for serious difficulties 141 no longer works in that way. And when the insurance system — even if the tax is abolished, which is a good thing — has its limitations, we really need an effective risk management system, and that is exactly the model Mrs Hautala was planning, a risk fund for the entire sector, including the government and perhaps the insurance companies, which, in bad years — and of course, good ones — could be used. Bureaucracy should only be lighter than it has been so far. President! Finally, expectations are really being set for the Karhinen Task Force. It will certainly be at the heart of the market in many ways. It was noted earlier that if there were 500 million more entrepreneurial income, it would be 25 cents a day per Finnish citizen. Otherwise, the EU budget and all of it at the moment is only 90 cents per citizen of the EU, that is to say, very small money when it is properly proportional. Now, during this parliamentary term, we had a competitiveness pact. In a way, they were looking for a social contract. When Finnish consumers are willing to pay more for food and when the market also has its own responsibility, different operators have their own responsibility, then perhaps we need some sort of food contract in Finland. Perhaps this Karhinen agreement could create a wider consensus between the entire food sector market. Such a food agreement could contribute to the change that is necessary here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u100	Mr President! The future of domestic farming must be safeguarded. We want safe food, sustainable agriculture and a vibrant countryside. It is important that the Finnish farmer survives his work and earns a living for his family. In this way we can continue to favour Finnish local food in our shopping. Our agriculture has faced many profitability crises due, among other things, to Russian sanctions on exports and extreme weather conditions. The rains that continue the other summer, last summer the drought reduced hundreds. We must be prepared for the effects of climate change. We need to improve the profitability of primary production and we need reforms. In the autumn, the Greens have published a new agricultural policy programme entitled ‘Towards a more sustainable and fair agricultural economy’. Security of supply, self-sufficiency, profitability, farmer's well-being, ecology, organic, animal welfare, energy self-sufficiency, innovation and reduction of food loss are the key words of the programme. We also want to humanise the bureaucracy associated with agriculture. Planned agricultural controls must be changed in the direction of risk-based controls. As the climate changes, it is increasingly important to invest in the research activities of the Natural Resources Centre. There is also an order for innovation in the food market. Consumers are increasingly looking for new products containing vegetable proteins. The popularity of the skinhead has shown this. Work on clean waters will also continue. We want to support wetlands that bind organic, increasingly extensive water protection zones and nutrients. An efficient method is the use of a nutrient balance based on soil nutrient analysis, in which case the field is not over-fed year after year. The application of gypsum to fields has also proved promising as a nutrient catcher, and organic production is a sustainable alternative where nutrients circulate. The popularity of organic farming is increasing among consumers and producers alike. It is truly regrettable when the Minister said that the money has already been spent on the new organic agreements. Farmers have an enormous interest in organic migration, and this must not stop with lack of support or advice. The rational recycling of nutrients and the production of local energy by farms are both worthwhile objectives. Farm size biogas plants offer a good solution. The manure and straw waste are digested into solid fertilizer and biogas is obtained at the same time. In order to promote this renewable energy, a tailor-made support solution is needed from the state. It is a real shame that environmental aid has been cut a lot just as demand for it has been increasing. When farmers bear environmental responsibility, they should be given the opportunity to do so. By increasing environmental support, we will have cleaner Baltic Sea and growth for sustainable production. Mr President! I'm going to raise some good things out of this government budget. The funding of the ‘carry on the farmer’ project is really necessary to support the work of farmers. The committee has made important additions to the 4H activities of children and young people, to the funding of the Mikkeli Organic Institute and to support village activities. I would have liked to see an additional allocation for the construction of the fishing roads in order to speed up the projects of the fisheries road strategy. In the Greens' alternative budget, we are proposing an additional allocation of EUR 4 million. Finally, I welcome the recent report by the Ministry of Justice that fishing obligations for migratory fish can also be imposed on old hydroelectric power plants. Our Constitution does not prevent this. To safeguard biodiversity, we need to take swift action. Yesterday, a survey of the endangered nature types was published, which identified the flows of Southern Finland as extremely endangered. In the same study, traditional biotopes have also been identified as one of our most endangered habitats. More support must be given to the management of traditional landscapes. For example, meadows, fields, meadows and forest pastures are traditional biotopes. The traditional biotope area always has valuable vegetation. In the past, for example, traditional biotopes that have remained open and light, thanks to grazing livestock, will easily grow and become afforested unless they are managed. In addition to grazing, treatments include grubbing up and mowing. The maintenance of these traditional landscapes also has potential for the development of rural tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u101	Mr President! As an active farmer, it is nice to hear from this debate that the whole hall seems to be concerned about the poor profitability of agriculture and the survival of agriculture here in Finland. As has been said in several speeches, the economic situation of agriculture has been very weak for a long time. The costs are rising sharply, while profits are falling. Although these new products are very keen to be brought up, at least in words, if they do not yield sufficient returns in terms of costs, however, very rarely do farms go out to produce them. In the end, however, financial transport also leads agricultural production to a very high degree. Several speakers have also heard about the weak years in agriculture. We have had several rainy years that have caused wetness problems on farms, and now last summer was an exceptional year in terms of drought. Now, with the various packages of crises, we have tried to prepare ourselves for the fact that farms will not fall very heavily into economic distress. The problem with the crisis packages is that they are always momentary, one-off items, which do not have any chance of correcting the overall sustainability of agriculture, but that basic economic viability must come through marketing. It cannot be managed in the longer term with budgetary funding. The drought package is recorded in this budget. The fastest way to get money from the state budget for farms is through an energy tax refund system, which is a very unfair way. For example, if wetland is to be considered now, the refund of the energy tax from fuel oil used in dryers is to be applied to those farms that have received a normal harvest and have used a great deal of that dryer, and not to those holdings that do not get it out at all. In a dry year due to drought there is very little fuel oil use in the farms, so that the compensation will not then come through this tax refund. This system should find a better option to react to this kind of crisis if they occur in the future. What is also important is the funding of the Intermediary Farmer project, EUR 3 million. In many farms, a difficult economic situation causes very difficult mental problems, and in order to solve them, this project seeks to bring help to the farms so that these problems can be dismantled before they become much worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u102	Mr President! This debate on the agriculture and forestry budget has given rise to important speeches specifically on the ability of producers to cope and how this profitability can be increased. The work of this Reijo Karhinen group, convened by Prime Minister Sipilä, has indeed been very important, and it has been important to look for ways and means to find more permanent solutions to these structures, which have really been treated and continue to treat producers unfairly. Fair trade rules must also be obtained in Finland. Of course, we are waiting for these means to be put in place here, and these proposals have already been heard and will be heard. Then there has also been a lot of discussion about these public food purchases. In this respect, the Government took a decision in principle earlier in this government term in order to increase the use of domestic food in schools and municipalities and in other public sector bodies that make these purchases, so that they would buy domestic food and so that these criteria would be considered through the inclusion of domestic food production criteria. This has been the right line of reasoning, but we still have the challenge of not moving forward in the way it should be, and of course the officials and we decision-makers in the municipalities have a big role to play in this. In a way, the state cannot directly decide on these criteria for purchasing food supplies from all public operators. Fortunately, even now, this budget has allocated resources to this support and to this advice on how to promote public decision-making on these procurements in this respect. It was also important that this rehabilitation money should now come, especially on these excursion routes. Although this comes mainly from that Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry also makes a small contribution. Of course, these have been important to us local people out there, who live near and in the middle of nature, for our own recreation and mobility, and then for our tourism activities. Nature tourism is a growing sector and these hiking routes must be in such a condition that it is safe to move there. What, perhaps in particular, is still such a focus on the future of this climate change is how we get more funding for research into both agriculture and forestry. In particular, agriculture and forestry in the northern areas on peatlands — because it is a little more special, different is the farming, forestry and farming there, and different is the production of food in the peatlands — need more research funding and should be returned to these earlier ones,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u103	Mr President! When we talk about the two greatest global threats at the moment, about climate change and the loss of diversity, just like the representative. Multala said this earlier and just as we spoke here yesterday in the section of the Ministry of the Environment, forest owners and farmers play a very important role in both of these. It is good that we have now begun to study how to increase the carbon sequestration capacity of arable land. In this we already know that the development of cultivation methods, such as increasing plant cover, raising groundwater or reducing adaptation, are the means by which this can be promoted. We also know that peatfield emissions are significantly higher than mineral soil emissions and, although we only account for 10% of arable land, they cause half of agricultural emissions. It would therefore be important not to introduce new peat fields. If we were to consider what would be the most effective means of reducing emissions in agriculture, it would be to eliminate peat fields that are not in intensive farming. Luke has calculated that if we were to remove 23,000 hectares of peatfields, we would restore them, we could achieve a 10% reduction in emissions from agriculture. Surely this is the number of fields that could be found in southern Finland. We know that the fields in the north are mainly peat fields, but, as Luke’s researcher said, there would certainly be enough fields to be found here in southern Finland. From the forests we know that they are our green gold and they are the source of our well-being, both economically and mentally. Forest use must be sustainable. We have a good forest management culture in Finland, but when forests are used, care must be taken to ensure that their use is sustainable both economically, ecologically and socially. The amount of felling cannot only be estimated on the basis of forest growth, but also on the basis of climate impacts, opportunities for recreational use and diversity. In this case, we cannot afford to increase the current level of felling. Yesterday, a "red book" of our habitats was published, and it says that as many as three-quarters of the forest types are endangered and that many of these habitats are especially located in Southern Finland and are at risk of disappearing. It is good that Metso has now also made some more money, but Metso's total funding is still much lower than last season. Currently, only 3 per cent of forests in southern Finland are permanently and strictly protected, while the Metso programme also targets 10 per cent. It is clear, however, that protection is not the solution when it comes to the diversity of forests as a whole. We also need to think about forest management measures, and we know that the number of savings trees in particular should be increased. In particular, decay trees, large decay trees, should be left in the forest more. There is a need for hedgehogs, adequate protection zones and, of course, the valuable sites from the forests that are already protected by the forest law. Natural culture is also one of those types of forest management that has been quite lost but which, from the perspective of diversity, is very important. As in the case of arable land, peatlands are critical from a climate point of view. The drainage of peat land should therefore be abandoned, as should open felling of peat land. As far as forests are concerned, growing carbon sinks is the easiest and fastest way to extend the harvesting cycle. This is something we could pay forest owners to increase carbon sinks and carbon storage. I will come back to some of the joys of that budget later, when I think we are running out of time here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u104	Mr President! Unfortunately, where agriculture and food are going badly, forestry is doing very well. Forestry is doing so well that, as the elections approach, there has been a climate-based debate about whether our forests are already being exploited too much, whether our current harvest volume is sustainable. It is sustainable, our forests are not being overcrowded, not even now at a peak, where fellings have increased significantly. Our well-managed forests are carbon sinks and will continue to do so in the future, as Mr Honkonen, among others, has already strongly demonstrated. This development is also supported by the fact that this budget, too, has once again provided funds under the Sustainable Forestry Finance Act (Kemera) through capitalisation of Kemera. These Kemera grants help to carry out the forest management work, including the lamentable management waste from which the forest owner earns little or no sales revenue compared to the costs. These include, in particular, seedling and early-stage forest management equipment, measures to ensure maximum forest growth and, at the same time, maximum value added and carbon sequestration. The growth and exploitation of forests, the success of the entire forestry sector, is also a major economic issue for us, a source of entrepreneurship, work and livelihood, which also generates billions of direct and indirect tax revenues to run our welfare society. This is really good for all of us to bear in mind, especially when considering what kind of restrictions on forest use. Mr President! Of course, the diversity of our national ownership must also be fostered. It is very good that this budget has also secured the financing of the Metso programme, which is voluntary, based on timeliness and reasonable compensation. The Metso Forest Protection Programme is a success story that should be modelled on if any new protection systems are to be created in this country at some point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u105	Mr President! Agriculture, game farming, watercourses, migratory fish and research funding for this administrative sector have already been mentioned in connection with this section, but we still have to talk about forests, and that seems to be the theme of the evening. Forests are of great importance to us Finns in many ways. Except for the northernmost Lapland, we're a forest nation. Forests are an important part of our economy and livelihood, our most important natural environment, the asset of landscape and tourism, and a place of rest and recreation. Forests also play an important role in combating climate change. At the same time as the scientific community stresses the importance of increasing both carbon stocks and carbon sinks, Metsähallitus’s target of results, i.e. in practice, the pressure to increase fellings, is raised. There's a contradiction. There's no way out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u108	Mr President! In my speech, I will focus on the horse economy. November brought great news for the horse people. The use of horse manure was finally made possible in energy production. Our work of influence was a success. Prior to this, the incineration of manure in Finland was practically impossible for ordinary horse racing entrepreneurs, the stablekeeper. It required quite unreasonable investment. This led to absurd situations, both in stables and in the environment, where manure could be driven by rubber wheels to landfills at the same time as buildings were heated with oil. Enabling manure combustion is a fine, rational reform, a win-win. In the State budget for 2019, the consideration of the horse sector is a clear source of joy. Therefore, our decision-makers should give the horse industry the best possible opportunity to develop as a business and give enthusiasts the opportunity to engage in leisure activities at reasonable distances and costs. The growth of the horse economy is important from the point of view of jobs and tax revenues, not to mention the important sports, health and leisure benefits of children and young people, adults and special groups. Horse hobby is one of the best youth work in the world. A horse is a fair guy who doesn't tease, doesn't discriminate. There are a lot of us horse people in Finland. For example, there are 170,000 Finns riding and about 650,000 spectators getting experiences every year from the racetracks. The growing, diverse horse sector directly employs some 15,000 Finns and indirectly even more. After hockey, racing is the second most followed sport. The Parliament added the budget to the Horse Information Centre's 50000 horse sector development work with the last metres. That was a good addition to the budget. In addition, the horse sector develops through recent training decisions. A new university of applied sciences training line, a tradition in the horse sector, raises the level of education in the field and combines business with horse competence. It is about creating ever better conditions for entrepreneurship in the sector. All in all, a lot of good decisions for horse lovers. We should continue to work actively for the horse sector and, for example, for equal leisure opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u109	Mr President! I am not going to go into any deeper matters about forests because they seem to be quite well, but I say to Mrs Hoskonen that tomorrow we will be able to vote on statement 19, in which this use of ash as fertilizer is on the table — an excellent statement from Mrs Vähämäki. With regard to the compensation scheme, we also have a statement number 12. Mr President! A brief overview of where agriculture is now and why: Finland joined the European Union from the beginning of 1995 and before that, the Aho Government held negotiations on membership and an agreement was reached whereby the decision-making powers for agriculture were transferred to the European Union almost completely. We have received the famous Article 141, which, from the outset, was on a weak footing and is now practically dead letter. In order to reach a decision on accession, the government adopted a national aid package. It was crucial that a positive decision on membership was reached in the referendum and in some parties. The government changed in the spring of 1995, and the Lipponen government immediately knocked down this national aid package, and the difficulties in agriculture began. So the farmers were so disappointed — I am not saying that they were deceived, but they were disappointed. Then, in 2004, ten new Member States came into the Union, including the Baltic States, Poland and Hungary, which are agricultural countries with excellent agricultural conditions. Their situation was otherwise very bad, as after communism there had neglected all development. Those countries received a ten-year transition period, or were put under a ten-year transition period, and from 2014 onwards they received full EU aid for their agriculture, and in many respects that 2014 is also the critical year for Finland's agriculture from which the shutdown started very quickly. However, quite exactly ten years ago, CAP reform and financial frameworks were negotiated, when Finland was forced to submit to the massive cuts in subsidies for agriculture and the transfer to rural development. Well, we all understand that rural development as such is not income for farmers but is all kinds of hobby activity or other rural development activity, and it was a heavy blow to agriculture during the first government of Vanhanen. In 2014, the milk quota decision entered into force, i.e. the withdrawal of milk quotas. It's already hit the dairy farms hard. The same year, 2014, came the Russian sanctions, which also hit the dairy industry very hard, but also the rest. We are in this situation now, but this is not enough. The year 2017 was an extremely wet year, the crop damage was large, and the 2018 drought hit farmers severely. We do not have a harvest compensation system, so farmers have then had to rely on some temporary arrangements to receive some compensation which is minimal and very uncertain and very badly targeted at those who have suffered the most. So the system is really bad. Now we've got the brex next year. The cost of agriculture is constantly rising and incomes are falling. There are also negotiations on the financial framework for the next period, and the Commission's proposal is a cold ride for Finnish agriculture. The situation is very sad. The Finnish farmer is now suffering from this situation. We must now acquire a permanent system that guarantees Finland's agriculture, jobs in the food chain and food and our safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u110	Mr President! A few words about hunting, farming and the restoration debt of Metsähallitus. There are a lot of excellent things in this administrative sector next year's budget, including the very detail of promoting young people's hunting activity by reducing the game management fee for under 18-year-olds from EUR 39 to EUR 20. This is important because more young people need to be brought into hunting and forestry. This current scale is certainly not enough. Hunting and forest management in general is also important because this is the way to deal with the removal of alien species, the removal of small predators and the proper operation and management of the game population, and then biodiversity and well-being in general. This must be guaranteed a good future, and in young people it is the future, so we need to bring more young people into the hunt. Secondly, I would like to raise here the issue of the dismantling of the restoration debt for nature sites in the hiking and recreational areas of Metsähallitus. Of course, it has already been mentioned here on several occasions that these investments are not enough, but there is more money here, and it is very important that the routes are in order to keep these natural sites in order as well. Tourists should be directed to the right routes; you can't go anywhere. Finally, there is the issue of the challenging situation of farmers. A lot has certainly been done, but even more can be done, and one of these good moves is the adoption of the Food Markets Act by Minister Leppa and the introduction of the necessary authorised resources here in the budget. Indeed, the aim is to prevent unfair conditions and unfair practices in trade, or otherwise unfair to the other party, and it is true that, although we have a project here about Care for the Farmer, which has received EUR 3 million in further funding, the best way to care about the farmer is to give farmers the right return on the valuable work they have done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u111	Mr President! I'll have to pick up where Congressman Kosonen left off. The best message for the consumer today is precisely: care about the farmer, buy food of domestic origin. It is the best, because on the market we need to get the money so that we can secure domestic food production. A few words on the fact that we are living in a rather tough, challenging time: the reform of the EU's agricultural policy is on the way, the financial frameworks are being negotiated, and the Finnish Presidency will take final decisions towards the end of next year. What arguments must we keep in mind — one that we consider very important for the whole of Finland's livestock production, for food production: we must defend production-linked aid until the end. In the negotiations of this current programming period, we also managed to obtain a great deal of support from Germany to increase it significantly above production-linked aid. It has also been a guarantee that we in the AB region have been able to continue livestock production during this programming period. Now we must bear in mind that it will also be safeguarded in the future. Here Mr Kankaanniemi also pointed out what this 141 support for serious difficulties was. I will only tell you, ladies and gentlemen, to refresh my memory that we are living in it to support him in the last few years. This year, the money was still paid to the AB regions, and next year it will be paid 20% less than this year, i.e. approximately EUR 9 million over the next year. For the year 20 again, the final amount is six and a half million 141 aid to the pig and poultry sector in the AB area. In 21 years it will no longer be the euro, and this is important to note that this has kept the pig and poultry sector alive here in the south, and this is an extremely important issue to defend in the negotiations for the next programming period in the next year. What risk do we see here if we do not get the percentage of this current amount of coupled aid in the next programming period? It inevitably presents a risk of the livestock farms from the south being reduced and moved to Area C. And with regard to this question, I am now challenging Mr Mikko: what did you mean that southern peatlands should be primarily afforested? However, the starting point is that it is not all production from here on wheels but we must see that if we are going to support afforestation, then we will support on a farm-by-farm the weak sections that are difficult to produce and operate on modern machines, but in principle no territorial boundary will be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u112	Mr President! I thought I would address this forest debate when, among other things, representatives Mikkonen and Halmemenpää raised the point that now that we have made forests grow from 1.5 billion cubic metres in the early 70s to 2.5 billion cubic metres, we should not take advantage of that growth. I think this is an untenable idea. Of course, as we increase the growth of forests, we must be able to make greater use of it. Of course, it must be done in a sustainable and natural way, but it must be used, just as on the agricultural side we are in favour of making more use of our natural resources. Firstly, forest growth has increased again according to the last inventory. It is 107 million cubic metres, with a sustainable felling potential of 84 million cubic metres, and it will increase to over 90 million cubic metres for the next period, so it has also been possible to demonstrate with the results that more can be gained. Therefore, when we have to invest in increasing growth from now on, we will be able to make greater use of this growth. This means that we should use good, processed material when we are renovating forests. In that sense, carbon sequestration is better than growth of different ages, because better growth material ensures better carbon sequestration when the growth is greater. We must use the fertilizer from which Mr Kankaanniemi raised the ash fertilizer. This government has done things in such a way that the use of fertilizer on that side is easier. For example, the committee visited the Ecolan factory, where far-reaching industries exist in this sector. We should also take into account the fact that forest growth is accelerating as water is taken care of. Here came the debate about the threat and the different habitats. I would like to remind you that 421 endangered species are in traditional landscapes and, for example, in old cloth forests between 144 and 166. What does this mean? This means that when the traditional landscapes are few ten thousand hectares in Finland and we have more than 20 million hectares of forest, then if we want to protect those endangered species, the whole group should do everything in their power to ensure that livestock farming, decentralized livestock farming, supports the whole of Finland so that we can preserve these traditional landscapes. It is quite absurd to think that the traditional landscapes of some trimmers are being treated there. No, it's the cattle that tend to them. The herd is also connected to a wide variety of endangered species of birds and insects. As far as that use of forests is concerned, everyone in this room swears by the timber construction. We understand that the best place to store wood is under the roof, not under the air, and wood construction is good, but we have to understand that we can't make that log wood happen unless we take care of the forests. We have nearly a million hectares of first thinnings waiting, so these climate thinnings must be done in time, as well as seedling management, that we can make it grow from that side as well. And I don't know the method of logging where the log alone could be taken off and left that other section growing. The whole tree is worth taking advantage of, and it will give us new products and energy as well. Let me briefly comment on the debate on pollution in the Baltic Sea. It is a good mantra that agriculture and livestock farming in particular are to blame for this. I would like to put these things in perspective when, for example, Mr Multala raised this pollution.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u113	Mr President! What I am trying to say is that I did not want to incriminate agriculture in any way, but, on the contrary, I said that the solutions will be found there, and I find it detestable that my words were distorted quite badly in it. Unfortunately, however, these old nutrient discharges, which have continued in recent years, when we have not been able to reduce nutrient emissions, are not exactly the result of these years, but the cause or cause of previous over-insulation, as you say. But what we are trying to do now is – that is, of course, I believe, the will of farmers, too – that nutrients, which are quite valuable, are not spread in the fields more than the plants need. And I believe that, at least in this way, I have heard many farmers say that it is right to think that we are trying to spread only as much nutrients in the fields as is reasonable. It's in everyone's best interest. In improving the state of the Baltic Sea, too, it should be remembered that no measures will have immediate effect. Over the years, there has been an enormous amount of mass in the bottom of the sea, which, with salt pulses from there too, sometimes falls to the surface and causes — as we saw last summer — now, especially in warm summers, an extremely bad situation. However, I think it would be foolish for us not to make every effort to protect our Baltic Sea and, of course, I agree that we should use other means than agriculture. However, agriculture plays a very important role in the way in which we will be able to improve the state of our other waters in the future, but especially now our sensitive Baltic Sea. I have also spoken in this Chamber earlier about the fact that yes, for example, in the Helsinki region and also in the Turku region, which is perhaps even more challenging when the archipelago is out of the maze and the water cannot change to that extent, it is, of course, an unfortunate and very important issue to be resolved. We still have a lot of these overflows right here in the capital region and in front of the suburbs. It would require hundreds of millions of euros of investment in order to separate these sewage systems from each other, and thus, in practice, waste water would not end up in the sea either when, for example, there are bad rain and flood seasons. So there is much that can be done, but I believe that, on this agricultural side, we have already achieved good rapid measures during this reign, and we need to think about longer-term measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u114	Mr President! Three-quarters of Finland's land area consists of forests and over 600,000 owners in these forests. In other words, the Finnish forest owner plays an important role, a major decision-maker, bearing responsibility for carbon sinks but also responsibility for the good raw material in the forest industry. So the forest owner is a lot as a guard compared to many other Finns, producing valuable ecosystem services for us. It is worth taking care of forest regeneration and growing condition, as has been said many times here. Unfortunately, it seems that some of the economic forests have been left to their own devices, and this committee's report contains two worrying information. Kemera will not be used this year between EUR 8 and 10 million. This means that unprofitable forestry work, even if there is support for it, will not be carried out. Another cause for concern is the fact that early care for seedlings has fallen by half since 2017, and that affects the issues I have just mentioned in the long term. The estates own about 10 percent of private forests and, according to research, are very passive in forest management. There is an urgent need to find a solution to this, which would speed up the forestry work of these very estates, in order to continue to secure a growing carbon sink and high-quality wood for industry. But what do you want me to do? Should unanimity requirements for the handling of matters be waived in the death nests, or should a carrot be applied for tax advantages? It might be that the carrot would be a more effective solution at this stage. This should be taken forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u115	Mr President! I think it's good that: The Natural Resources Centre has succeeded in reforming itself so that it remains the leading internationally recognised research organisation in the bioeconomy. This has required an increase in income funding from 31% to 39 % of total expenditure for 2015-2018. But I can see dark clouds over Luke. If the growth in external funding is not achieved in line with the objective and the cuts in budget funding for the coming years are realised, the current capacity to act will not be secure. The Finnish Government is committed to implementing a national organic programme. The aim of the programme is to increase the share of organic farming to 20% of the total land area. At the moment, it is about 13%. I believe that the government should support the organic sector in achieving this objective. North Karelia is a pioneer in organic farming. For us, the share of organic farming in the field is already approaching 30% and the willingness to increase the field to organic farming would be, and not without reason. I wonder at the decision that it would no longer be possible to obtain new organic aid next year to increase the organic sector. Organic farming has the potential to improve the poor profitability of agriculture and to combat its famous climate change and loss of species. Last year, sales of organic products grew by as much as 13 per cent in Finland. What other agricultural product is better sold per year? In addition, organic food also has good sales in exports. Unfortunately, there is not enough organic products for export at the moment. In preparing the financial framework for the future programming period, the funding of organic aid must be secured. Growing demand for organic products increases farmers' interest in increasing organic production. The financial framework must make it possible to increase organic production. The application of the EU organic regulation to Finland must take into account our northern location and avoid increasing bureaucracy and costs. I also take it for granted that the government will increase the funding for organic research at the Natural Resources Centre. In this way we will get more information about organic production for both primary producers and consumers. Since Finland's objective is to increase the area of organic farming to 20%, organic research funding should also be closer to 20% of all research funding in the sector. At the moment, it's a long way from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u116	Mr President! In order to curb the long-term cost structure of agriculture, the structure of the farm is quite central, and it is good that this budget has an additional allocation of 1 million. There is, however, a need for continuity in the arrangements. In recent years, this has now been quite a squirming system: there has been enough money between us and it has run out of time. It has then caused disruptions in the field, and the system has not been very forward-looking. Let us hope that this additional effort of 1 million will now mean that this system can be developed in peace. The State guarantees through Makera for these investing farms are also a good thing. Quite often, on farms, capital is so tightly tied that the collateral on the farm is no longer sufficient for bank financing, and it is then possible to obtain additional collateral through this state guarantee in order to make investments in these large farms. The problem appears to be the growing reluctance of the banks to fund very large animal production projects on the ground. Several messages come from the field that bank financing will then collapse in the last few metres, i.e. they will not leave, no matter how profitable the project is, which means that even the financier no longer believes in the profitability of agriculture in the long term. A good thing about the budget is the additional funding for agricultural advisory services. Of course, the changes in the market must also be taken into account here. At present, a number of suppliers of agricultural advisory services have entered the market, so that this will no longer distort competition, but will also take account of these new operators, because they are agile and very quickly react to market demand and the different situations on the farms. State aid for village activities, particularly in the field of volunteering, has also been increased by EUR 100000. This is a very important money for village activities, which encourages villages to do this kind of volunteer work. State aid for 4H activities can never be forgotten. 4H is a very important channel for guiding children and young people into business activities, and for their own business, the first steps have been collected from the 4H business community.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u117	Mr President! I came to the toilet because there were also a couple of questions or amazements addressed to me, and this gives me time to answer everyone during this speech. First of all, I would like to pick up on what has been said about the budget, both on the ground and, in particular, on the matter of the committee's proposal for an addition. Of course, the additional appropriations that had been made available for water rehabilitation projects and, for example, for management fisheries were very welcome, and I particularly welcome the strengthening of fisheries control measures in North Karelia. That was a great thing, because unfortunately, there have been more cases of poaching in our province recently, which have also been targeted at the endangered Lake Saimaa salmon, for which, on the other hand, we are working very hard there. This work is threatening to go to waste when there is poaching, and it is very important that we now have more resources to do this so that control can be stepped up. Thank you so much for that. I understand that the representative The corner has also played a major role in this, and I would like to thank you for that. These additional resources for organisation activities are also great for the 4H activities, village associations and associations that want to increase the value chain of natural products. It's important work. And of course, the additional appropriations allocated to Metsähallitus in connection with the repair and maintenance of routes in hiking and recreational areas: yesterday, the Ministry of the Environment's section was also pleased to see that money had been added to the national parks for the same infrastructure maintenance. That is really necessary, but unfortunately, as has been said here, these too are not enough, but of course the direction is the right one. We Greens would have liked more money for organic advice. We know that demand is high for consumers, and many farmers too would like to move more towards organic farming. It would be important to have sufficient advice. We would also have wanted more money for water and fisheries projects in order to implement the fisheries road strategy and thus ensure the conservation of migratory fish stocks. There is also an increase in the fight against alien species. It is a growing threat, and with climate change, more and more southern species are spreading to us. There are also many pests there, and it is important that we be able to detect and intervene as early as possible. And, of course, this money for forest protection, which I mentioned earlier, would still have been needed. There's been a lot of talk here about the farmers' survival. It's very important. Now that there have been two consecutive harvests with conditions that have been such that the crop damage has been great, it is quite clear that we need to think about and develop a sustainable compensation system. It cannot be that, year after year, we have to turn on the support packages that are necessary in themselves, but we have to have a sustainable system that is well targeted and which also encourages farmers themselves to take measures to promote crop security and, on the other hand, transfer to various non-fossil fuels, for example, because we know that it will reduce climate change and emissions. Well, then Mr Kalmari said these traditional biotopes. That's right. All our traditional biotopes are endangered, forest pastures, wooded land, different meadows. This is because traditional meadows and grazings have decreased. I am not quite sure that this current animal production, with its large yard poles, which do not necessarily go for grazing at all, is now helping to protect traditional biotopes. Mr Hakanen asked about this restoration of peat soils. I only told what Luke’s researcher told me that the most effective way to reduce emissions from farmland would be if we targeted it specifically on these peat fields. Land improvement of 1.3 million hectares would be required for mineral soils and, if it is considered that the same result will be achieved for and for the restoration of 23,000 peat soils,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u118	Mr President! In fact, I shall start where Mr Mikkonen left off. I, too, was surprised by his previous speech, in which he said that afforestation of peatlands would be a good way of curbing run-off and emissions, and he continued and suggested that although the majority of peatlands are located in Northern Finland, these peatlands that are to be afforested should still be found in Southern Finland. This logic did not open up to me, which is why the peatlands should be found specifically in southern Finland, especially when it is stated that most of these peat fields are located elsewhere. Mr Hakanen has already pointed out the difficult situation in the livestock sector in Southern Finland and that it should not be further complicated now. Mr President! I was thinking in a few words of saying a good thing about the past concerning agriculture which has taken place during this parliamentary term. It is clear that agriculture is struggling with an unprecedented crisis of profitability. Producer prices have not been raised in line with the increase in production costs. There are many other challenges for farmers, but many things have also been moved forward during this parliamentary term. With regard to the issues of coping and mainly the problems of coping with profitability, well-being projects have been created as a remedy, a system through which farmers can be helped with problems of physical and, in particular, mental well-being, can be helped and supported in practical matters to cope with a problematic situation in one way or another. The help of professionals, independent professionals, is now available. It is very good that the system has been put in place and that its funding has been secured during this parliamentary term. Similarly, progress has been made in improving origin labelling. According to consumer studies, the consumer’s decision involves the desire to eat domestic food, to support domestic, responsible production. It is very good that consumer choice has been improved by making origin labelling more comprehensive and better so that the consumer can make this responsible choice easier when making shopping decisions. The authorisation has been facilitated, the pricing of authorisations has been moderated. It is great that we are heading in the direction that the environmental permit for the construction of a large barn no longer compares to a nuclear power plant in its price category. Animal welfare legislation has been moving forward for a long time. Animal welfare legislation must be brought to an end during this parliamentary term. We need to get it into effect as soon as possible. I believe that there is quite a common view of how animal welfare can be supported by legislation in this area. Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about support policy. I will now raise the issue of support policy very superficially. At the beginning of the electoral period, a number of cuts in agricultural production subsidies had to be recorded in the Government Programme as a saving measure. Now, as this parliamentary term progresses, these cuts have been largely reversed and support levels have been maintained at a reasonable level. In the future, in the years to come, we will face the challenge of making the reform of the EU's agricultural policy fit for Finnish agriculture, Finnish conditions, making the conditions for support reasonable and keeping the levels of support as high as possible. There is also pressure on LFA support. The very figure is that the financial gap in environmental aid that arose during the previous parliamentary term must be able to be filled during the next parliamentary term. But it is very good that, in the midst of the problems of profitability in agriculture, particularly as a result of the shocks caused by the weather, we have been able to respond with crisis packages. The crisis packages have been compiled in a comprehensive way, even though the targeting of drought support, especially this year, was somewhat challenging and should also have been able to target plant farms in Southern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u119	Mr President! Agriculture and production in general are very important in terms of EU regulation, and we are pleased to hear that the EU has also today concluded negotiations between the Council and Parliament on a directive which tolerates unfair trade practices. And there our parliamentarian, Elsi Katainen, has done a good job in such a way that now there are also medium-sized trades of this kind at EU level, which means that these two larger trading groups in Finland are also covered by this regulation. In other words, we will soon have not only this food market law but also an EU directive that will bring about this regulation. Secondly, I would like to raise antibiotic resistance, which has been raised in the EU as one of three major threats to health. We are well aware that antibiotics in Finland have not been used in animal treatment except in cases of illness, but there have been huge differences between Europe, and now this regulation is being brought to the same level. Especially in southern Europe, antibiotics have been used in such mass medicine even for healthy animals. This may mean that we will soon have antibiotic-resistant areas in which no antibiotic will bite anymore, and it can be extremely dangerous for both animals and humans. That is why it is excellent that the EU has addressed this too. This will also have a direct impact on the profitability of Finnish agriculture, because gradually the EU will achieve the same level as in Finland with regard to this clean food, which is only a good thing. It is excellent that good funding has been provided for the Mikkeli Organic Institute. This is a network of experts from the University of Helsinki and the Natural Resources Centre, and it is really important to have more information and research on the subject. There is also a real need for additional funding for village associations and 4H — doing an extremely good job. Mr Parviainen's idea of dismantling the death nests is still enough that Sweden has a five-year deadline for them, and I would see that the Swedish model could be applied in the same way in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u120	Congressman Halmemenpää. He's hiding, but he's here anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u121	Mr President! I calculated that around midnight in this Chamber, the budget debate in the section on agriculture and forestry is about 16 per cent of the strength of the central parliamentary group and 20 per cent of the green parliamentary group and there are a couple of other representatives from other groups. I think this is a positive thing. At least we are interested in agriculture and forestry, and it is good to have a debate on it. I would like to return to the issue of peatfields, and I would like to see no speeches being filtered out here through any crooked spectacles. What Mr Mikkonen was talking about earlier is also linked to the field-optim tool already being introduced in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, for example, by Luke. It is intended that profitability should be developed on the basis of the characteristics of the fields. Among other things, there are indications that in southern Finland, where the majority of the fields are not peatlands, unlike, for example, in Northern Ostrobothnia, there may be better opportunities even for profitability to afforest some of the fields that are far from the farm centre, perhaps slightly lower-productive. It was not meant to say that only in southern Finland should measures be taken on peatfields and elsewhere not, but that reference was made to this research and tool for farmers already being developed by Luke. I understood this message from Luke positive. Mr President! I would also be very pleased that, otherwise, perhaps not just with one ear or with any optional interpretations, what is being said and what was mentioned earlier in this debate about forests. I think it is a little irresponsible to say that nothing pops up in this Chamber would think that forests should not be used. That is not the way I have heard any group play. More or less, this current level of use, between 70 and 75 million cubic metres per year, may well fit within the limits of sustainability, i.e. not only technical economic sustainability, but also ecological sustainability, if we also control the loss of diversity. However, according to the Ministry of the Environment, more than 800 endangered species — over 800 other than mammals and birds — live in Finland’s forests. If their living conditions are not corrected, as many as 200 species of life are threatened with extinction in the next 50 years. Mr President! I very much hope that we will not go on talking about total forest protection or total unlimited harvesting opportunities, when such an option has not been supported in either direction. Instead, we could and must concentrate on seeking better balance and safeguarding both the economic benefits of forests and their natural values by better planning and practices and by developing methods of forestry and forest protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u122	Mr President! I, too, was going to talk about this biodiversity. We have met with scientists, and I have also talked to companies in the forest industry, and a lot of good has happened in this area. Forest management methods, for example, have developed so far and should be further developed, but it has also been understood that the quantity of decay wood is extremely important for diversity. That is why it is good that we also try to increase the amount of decayed wood in these economic forests, for example by making such tree owls, which then rapidly decompose, and this is something that the forestry companies themselves are promoting. For example, leaving stocks in forests also contributes to the quantity of decayed wood in forests. I have also understood that the removal of stocks is expensive and their usefulness is rather poor, so it would also be in everyone's interest not to remove them on the terms of the agreement, and I believe that this is where we are going anyway. However, there are still no measures to be taken to promote this diversity of forests in both economic and non-economic forests, and I believe that all parties are prepared to do so. When knowledge increases, pain does not increase in this regard, but everyone wins. Indeed, we must do everything we can to ensure that the loss of diversity does not continue, because in many respects we are already in an extremely alarming state. I would also like to commend the report by the Ministry of Justice on this improvement of the fishing routes that has already been mentioned here, and I hope that this will also help to bring about a gradual return to these old hydropower plants and to make the recovery of these endangered fish species even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u123	Mr President! Around 6 per cent of fish caught in Finland are eaten. Everything else comes from abroad. I see no point in this, because we have the cleanest waters in the world and the opportunity to grow fish even for others. We have an opportunity to increase the consumption of domestic fish, and the government will have to invest even more in it in the future. In my opinion, two things should definitely be done in Finland: First of all, less-valued fish should be better understood as a management fishery, as a fish to be removed. Secondly, they should be processed better into export products. Both of these measures are possible and should also be supported by the State. It is essential to ensure the profitability of the entire fishing industry and that it also attracts young entrepreneurs to the fishing sector. There is currently no such development in sight. The situation of Saimaa salmon has been improved during this reign. The control of fisheries and the determination of the value of endangered fish are also essential to this. I therefore welcome the fact that the North Karelia Fisheries Centre will receive EUR 100000 to support its activities. This is the second consecutive year. There is also a value coming for endangered fish, which contributes to deterrence and reduction of poaching in areas such as Pieline, Pielisjoki and Lower Koitajoki. It must be understood that once lost genetic combinations of salmon fish will no longer be recovered. The next government will have to take even stronger action to improve the environment for endangered fish.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u124	Mr President! First of all, a comment on this tool that Luke developed on these less productive blocks. The model was based on the fact that the farther the space from the centre, the weaker the block in terms of productivity, and there are many different indicators that only affect what should be done in that field. At the end of the day, however, there is the decision of the landowner to do what the landowner decides to do, so that it is very dangerous, on the other hand, to take up ideas on the matter in the landowner’s decisions if there are no financial incentives. Then what my real concern is still here is this financing of agricultural research. There has now been a great deal of reduction in the funding of agricultural research. It has continued for a long time to decline, and its research focuses on very few research stations. When our agriculture, especially arable land, is very heterogeneous, it is different in different regions, so now if research is carried out in just one area, then that same research result cannot be applied across the country. It should be possible to divide this research much more into different regions, and this research on different arable land is all the more important when we start talking about this carbon sequestration, how best to tie that coal to the arable land and what are the means. This study should be carried out, and North Ostrobothnia is a very good target for it, because we have a very large number of peatland that is in active cultivation. Then, Mr President-in-Office, I will take this biogas as one thing. The issue of biogas has already been raised in a few speeches. Biogas is very closely suited to agriculture as an additional form of energy that can be used very smoothly on the farm. That energy can be used there on the farm and it can be transferred to transport fuel. This biogas has been mentioned for at least 20 years as an agricultural link, but in practice it does not just start, because economic profitability is so low. Support or tax solutions would get this moving, but unfortunately, even now the message is that when a farm makes plans for an investment project to build a biogas plant that is large enough to build on synergies between its energy production and the energy needs on the farm, the financiers, the risk funders, will immediately withdraw from the project, and this is the exact opposite of what should be there for agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u125	Mr Viljanen and Mr Viljanen — just like this — Mrs Maijala and then Mr Hakanen. This is an important order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u126	Mr President! I would like to start again by referring to Mr Mikkonen's speech, which Mr Halmemenpää has now interpreted to the Chamber with merit. Mr Halmemenpää, it was by no means intended to misinterpret Mr Mikkonen's speech,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u133	Mr President! I will speak only of fish and reindeer. Firstly, with regard to fish, that is, the fact that a certain amount of work has now been done to correct the fishing law. But I hope that when the new parliamentary term begins, this matter of fisheries law will be taken under a little more thought and work. At present, only 18% of commercial fish are domestic fish, and there is a great deal of work to be done about it. Now the next thing is how we can make our thousands of lakes available. This so-called junk fish, or truly secondary fish, must really be made available, and how it is done, that is where we all have work to do, and that is where work is to be done. And then one thing is the fishing charge, which we had problems with, and now this money was no longer available for the management of the waters in the way it used to be. We should now consider how we can finance the management and use of water areas and the whole issue of advice and so on. As far as fish are concerned, we have to make the pike our tourist product. At the moment, we're talking about trout and salmon. They are all good for domestic tourism, but when we talk about foreign tourism and the development of tourism, it is a pike that we must get as a tourist product. That way, our waters will also be managed. Then, quickly, on reindeer husbandry matters, that is, the law on reindeer husbandry should not be opened much more. We are currently working on a field damage case and an evaluation committee case. I think that is the only thing that can be corrected to some extent. There, too, there is no need to do big things, just to think about how we can make the evaluation boards work even better so that they can be trusted. In fact, there is not as much damage on farms as public figures suggest. There will always be those disgusting situations, but most of them have always been agreed upon. And then on the matter of fraud: We were only dealing with the Game Damage Act, and hopefully with the corrections that it contains, we will make it possible for all those who have suffered the fraud to be compensated in full. But we must continue to make sure that the compensation for fraud is paid in time and preferably even twice a year. A part will be paid as soon as possible, provided that all these payments are made as soon as possible. The predatory situation in Finland has hardly improved at all, but the number of bears is very bad, especially in reindeer farms. We need to figure out what to do with that situation. The good news is that, as far as the wolverines are concerned, we have been given the opportunity to eliminate the wolverines, particularly those that cause damage, but that has not yet resolved the situation sufficiently. So much more work is to be done with predatory matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u134	Mr President! The last speech by the section of agriculture has come this year in the budget debate and, as tradition requires, this is a so-called speech on the subject. Some also quote it as spawn talk. This has been started in the past by Mr Timo Roos of the SDP, who has been creditably taken year after year, each in a slightly different way, but in this case, too, this one of ours is at the centre. Mr President! This time, I have a great deal of respect for agriculture, for the difficult years of agriculture, and that is why I have built this time, Mr President, in a slightly different way. The goat is a very sympathetic animal. It is easy to care for and has little to eat, and it is also loyal as a dog to its nurse. True, it can be viewed as a little moody in nature. There has been a saying: ‘If you want to get ahold of yourself, take care of yourself. “ In spite of its perniciousness, and for that very reason, that noble animal of our northern pastures teaches us more about life than we can imagine, and I also believe that the spawns have their own solution to many of the burning questions of agriculture. We can be sure that we all share the concern of the spawns, namely global warming and the changes it brings to our natural conditions. How does it affect plants, animals, lakes and all of us interacting with each other? But, above all, does the wise animal secretly have a solution for this too? At least the expectations of society are great. Is there a solution? Time will tell. Mr President! The wrinkly, backward - bent horns coming out of the frontal bones are like winter frosting to the grain field. With those horns, the spawn fights the dangers and defends its territory, while the frost kills the plant diseases from the ground and thus saves the crop from many dangers. But what if the frost no longer appeared — would the horns fall off the spawn? If the climate were to warm up in such a way that we would not be able to get help in the fight against plant diseases? And what if alien species and weeds find greater place in our fields of grain? Would a part of the food production of animals using grass feed and grain, such as spawning, have been threatened during that warm period? There's no reason why he was worried. What would happen to the herbivore spawning milk producer? There the spawning economy has been a traditional and thriving production sector. Our keeper was considered a famous spawner, and even in Tyrvaa’s coat of arms was a goat goat who was drawn by Gustaf von Numers. [Laughter] The cheeses made from fibre’s milk became a traditional part of the food culture of this region already in the Middle Ages. In the 20th century, the importance of cheese production was strengthened. Keeping spawning elsewhere in Finland was not as popular as in Satakunta and the municipalities of Western Pirkanmaa. Mr President! As proven, the spawn is a traditional animal that produces delicious cheeses of high value even in the world. The kuttu must be preserved as part of a diverse food chain, which is why it is really great to note that the number of spawnings in production has increased by more than 600 animals since 2016. There are currently over 5,400 spawning facilities in Finland and 138 spawning facilities in Finland. There has been a significant increase in production in the AB area for a longer period, since 2014, and in the last year the number of animals in the region increased by more than 400 spawns. However, the trend has been that some of the fibres have moved from C to this AB area, which explains the sudden decrease in the number of animals in Area C.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u137	Mr President! This particularly civilized, versatile and wise speech deserves only thanks. Traditions are important, culture is important, agriculture is important, and thank you for the efforts made by the representative in building such an excellent speech. Thank you, and Merry Christmas to you too, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u138	Section 29 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Education and Culture will now be presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u139	Madam President! As regards the Section for Education and Science, I would therefore like to present the committee's report. We are taking a number of positions here, and there are many additions, as is often the case in this section. All in all, as regards education and early childhood education, the Committee notes that there have been cuts in education, inter alia through cuts in state subsidies and index freezes, and also notes that a number of reforms have been made at the same time. The renewed legislation on early childhood education is welcomed and attention is paid, among other things, to the adequacy of early childhood education staff and to the fact that the education of kindergarten teachers is now being increased but that this adequacy needs to be taken into account in the future. The committee welcomes the extension of the free-of-charge testing of early childhood education for five-year-olds, and also the fact that additional funding is now being proposed for these more challenging day-care centres. So these are our comments on early childhood education. As far as basic education is concerned, the committee talks a lot about the importance of equal opportunities for schools, and about these grants for challenging primary schools, and will contribute to this funding by EUR 2 million. As far as upper secondary school education is concerned, it is stated that the legislation has been reformed, and it is also stated that the adequacy of the basic funding for upper secondary school education must be assessed in the future, since there have now been a lot of contractions and, unfortunately, there has been an increase in the responsibilities of the municipalities through this. A positive increase is in the club budget, that is to say a cut of 3 million from this year's level, and the committee proposes that it be restored. In the same way, additional funding is also proposed to the Reading Centre, for example. These are very important additions, even in support of children’s leisure activities. As far as liberal education is concerned, President: The committee stresses its role in, among other things, immigrant training and then in promoting citizens' digital skills. This also includes additions to organizations such as the Remote School for Travellers, Finnish Schools, Women's Associations, Karelian Federation and Sofia's Support Association. As far as vocational training is concerned, we note this reform and that it will take some time to implement it. Evaluation at this stage is still premature, but the committee also notes that implementation requires some stronger support. Particular attention will be paid to contact teaching and then to guidance, and there is a clear need for greater support. The Committee notes that it is good that this implementation is supported by 15 million people, but points out that, given the scale of previous austerity decisions and reform, it is still very challenging to achieve a successful end to this reform, with particular emphasis on the adequacy of local education and support. As far as universities are concerned, the Committee draws positive attention, for example, to the fact that funding for the Academy of Finland is now being increased, among other things, for these flagship projects, but notes its concern that the share of RD spending in GDP has fallen recently. It is now slightly on the rise, but we will draw attention to the need for further investment in the future. With regard to polytechnics, it is stated that there has been considerable savings and, overall, this certain predictability and adequacy of funding is emphasised. After all, now that fragmented funding is often a cause for great concern. With regard to art and culture, it is an important document on the reform of VOS. This is just a statement saying that this will be taken to the finish line in the future, and that additional resources are required, otherwise this will not go, and it is stated that, for example, it should not be done in such a way that savings are presented to Tampere's Workers' Theatre, as was the case at an earlier stage of a small fear. All in all, we are also talking about the key projects and the importance of consolidating them and about production subsidies for the films that have been important, and libraries are allocated a specific budget for the digital project. As far as compensation is concerned, the committee quite rightly states that there should be no cuts. 2 million will be returned and recorded by saying that this system now needs to be clarified, the need for reform will be identified and the next government programme will return to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u144	I'm asking you to stay within time limits. We have a lot of speeches here. — Now for the presentation by Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u145	Madam President! My warm thanks to the committees and the section for this thorough work and good cooperation this year. Equality and quality education are the most important success factors in Finland, and Finland has managed to combine excellent learning outcomes and equality over the years. In Finland, parents can still count on us not to choose school, and we have the second smallest differences between schools in the world according to the latest Pisa study. The share of low-skilled people in Finland is the lowest in the EU countries, and our teachers do excellent work in schools every day. We have lived many difficult and scarce years in recent years. Right now, the improvement in the economic situation has made it possible for research and training efforts to be made over a long period of time. The first of these was seen in the 2018 budget, and next year's draft budget will continue along the same lines towards better times. Of course, it is worrying that there has recently been a signal that economic growth is slowing down. It is therefore all the more important to pay attention to the promotion of employment and to make the reforms that will strengthen Finland's economy in the coming years, because it is also a very big picture and issue for the education system. In any case, it is clear that at all times in a changing, uncertain world, a strong knowledge base is the most important security for our country as well as for everyone as an individual. Determined actions and educational reforms in this government are beginning to bear fruit. I am very pleased that during this term of government, the drop in vocational education and training has fallen and is developing in a good direction, that the proportion of young people not in education and employment has fallen in the statistics and that the participation rate in early childhood education has risen. In the big picture, when, of course, we are dealing with the budget today, we are dealing with money and how much it is available, it is important and good to remember that Finland spends public money on education, research and civilisation as a whole, adding together the different sections, about EUR 15 billion. It's a huge amount of money, and it has to be. In this draft budget, we are making a number of important increases in the appropriations for education. The Government has been making significant investments in various amending budget processes all the way for a couple of years to ensure the availability of skilled labour by funding further and conversion training. At the same time as we respond to these educational needs of the high economic climate, we have taken care of the conditions for future growth. Last week's report on the state of science 2018, prepared by the Academy of Finland, brought good news. In practice, Finland’s scientific impact, or quality, has increased in global comparisons. This will play a key role in research, development and innovation activities, which in the draft budget for next year will receive significant and permanent additional funding of EUR 112 million, i.e. a permanent increase in the level of appropriations, which will also bring credibility to the commonly agreed vision of High Consumption and Research for 2030, which will aim at a significant increase in the volume of research and innovation activities in Finland. I will also mention a few measures relating to equality, because equality is the fundamental value that unites us here in Parliament. We take responsibility for the future of our country by taking care of the opportunity of every child and young person to receive world-class education in their local school and thus continue the learning path forward, and that path starts already in the day care centre. The new appropriation of EUR 10 million will support equality in early childhood education in the budget for next year. Money can be used to reduce group sizes and recruit additional staff in day-care centres in challenging areas. The experiment to increase the participation rate of early childhood education continues and expands for the free early childhood education of five-year-olds. In addition to the existing allocation of EUR 5 million, EUR 5 million will be proposed for next year. We have already opened up this kind of search to the municipalities, with the state's contribution to this experiment doubling compared to the previous stage. In this year's budget, the government also doubled the funding for equality in comprehensive school, which supports schools in challenging areas. For this purpose, EUR 32 million is proposed for next year. Thank you, too, for adding EUR 2 million to this. School club activities play an important role in preventing exclusion, and more resources will be allocated to it next year. Thank you for your cooperation here too. These include the budget for next year, and we can also move towards the education system next year with good pleasure, because major, key legislative projects have been taken on schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u146	Mr President! In the areas of responsibility for culture and art, sport, physical activity and youth, as well as student support, next year's draft budget includes a number of reforms and development projects, of which the launch of the Mobility Study project, changes to student support and investment in the promotion of art are key. A total of EUR 587 million is proposed for student support, of which EUR 442 million is provided for study grants. The study grant is proposed to include a monthly material supplement of approximately EUR 46, which is entitled to a student under 20 years of age who is entitled to a low-income increase in the student's study grant and a student under 17 years of age in a low-income family. In addition, the support period for the academic year of upper secondary school education will be extended by one month, from nine to ten months, and a student under 18 years of age living independently may receive the basic amount of the study grant and the housing allowance without means-tested parental income. The above-mentioned change also improves access to general housing allowance for underage students, as the eligibility of housing allowance is usually conditional on receiving student allowance. From next year on, scholarships will no longer be able to reduce student support as they are. This change will increase student spending and facilitate, among other things, the pooling of studies and sport. €448 million is presented for culture and art, of which €246 million for gambling. A total increase of around EUR 8 million is proposed for the promotion of art from the profits of gambling. The additions are targeted, among other things, at the structural change in the so-called free field of performing art, international co-production of films, the strategic development of cultural activities in municipalities and the development of various fields of art. A total of EUR 2 million will be allocated to support the so-called free field of performing art, equal opportunities for children and young people to participate in art and culture and the extension of the principle of percentages. The Ministry will launch the implementation of the VOS reform decided in the 2018 spring spending limits debate for the years 2020 to 2023 by reforming the funding of the free field of performing art already in 2019. An additional EUR 1 million will be allocated to the three-year operating grants. In addition, the Committee on Finance has added EUR 2 million to private copying credit payments. The additional allocation will ensure that the authors receive reasonable compensation for the production of works for private use. I thank the committee for these additions. They are important for cultural and artistic actors. Mr President! EUR 159 million is presented to sports, of which EUR 155 million is provided for gambling revenue. Support for the Mobility School Programme will be extended to the Mobility Study Programme, which mainly covers secondary schools and piloting of projects promoting physical activity, particularly in early childhood education. The Government’s leading project in 2015–2018 has been the Mobility School programme, which aims to bring one hour of physical activity per day to the day of each comprehensive school student. The programme has been an excellent success and has reached around 90% coverage of municipalities, comprehensive schools and comprehensive schoolchildren. A total of EUR 3.8 million will be proposed for 2019 for the Mobility Study Programme. EUR 78 million is proposed for youth work, of which EUR 55 million for the profits of gambling. The Ministry's proposal guarantees the workshop activities of young people and detective youth work throughout the country. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: Youth work is involved in the development of multi-disciplinary Ohjaamo activities. Youth work appropriations will also be channelled into support for the development of young people's entrepreneurial, economic and occupational skills and will provide additional focus on language base activities, which play a key role in the preservation of the languages of the Inari, Koltan and North Sami. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u147	Let's open the debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in the debate to stand up and press the V button. — Chairman of the Committee, Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u148	Mr President! The big picture is now more positive in education than in many years. We will be able to drive up the planes, and that is, of course, welcome and expected, as the Minister described here. Good targeting has also been done in the section. For that, thank you to all those who have affected them. Perhaps there, on the freight side, if education starts, this is the foundation that needs to be put in order. Every time I get confused about the fact that between 10% and 11% of primary school students come to secondary school with poor reading and writing skills. We simply cannot accept this in a country with the best comprehensive school in the world. I don't blame the school for this, and I don't think it's the guilty one by looking for solutions. I believe this is a social phenomenon. Much has happened in Finnish society. It is our job to put the foundations in order, and we also have a model for that, which I will be happy to present later. But I ask the Minister: what do you think, what are the next steps to put the foundation in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u149	Mr President! The most important goal for Finland’s future is that every child receives adequate knowledge and skills from early childhood education and basic education, the joy of learning, the joy of learning that then carries on further studies and throughout life. That is why equality funding for early childhood education is so important. It is important that we invest there in the early years and thus ensure equal opportunities for learning. I am concerned about children and young people from immigrant backgrounds. Only about a few per cent of young people with an immigrant background, between 6 and 7%, will go to upper secondary school when our goal is that 50% of the age group will go to higher education. My question is: what action does the Minister believe should still be taken to ensure equality? I would also like to express my pleasure at getting the Mobility early childhood education project under way. Parliament added appropriations to this. The children move far too little. The day care centre has about 20 minutes before noon of health-promoting exercise, and a seated way of life
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u150	Mr President! Concerns about early childhood education have been much discussed. At first, you were in the government raising early childhood education fees, but fortunately, they were eventually reduced. It is sad that the government has weakened the quality of early childhood education by increasing group sizes. The right of children to participate in early childhood education is also limited. This has led to inequality between children living in different municipalities, when they have been introduced elsewhere and then not elsewhere. It is unfortunate that the Sipilä government will be remembered that it weakened the equality of young children. Well, the early childhood education law has been reformed this year. There is a lot of good in the new law, but there was also room for correction, and one of the most important concerns the provision of child support. In early childhood education, three-tier support should be provided in the same way as in basic education. We know that the earlier and earlier the problems are addressed, as has been said in the previous speech, the easier they will be to remedy them. Early support for a young child is the most impressive and facilitates the child’s later school path. Minister, there is still a reign. What are you going to do to ensure that young children also receive adequate support in early childhood education?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u151	President! Now that it is the last budget for the parliamentary term, it is the time for the accounts, and it has not been very flattering when the education sector was under severe austerity and during the parliamentary term the opposition has not spared the government any intermediate issues relating to education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u154	Madam President! As the Minister said at the beginning of his speech, teachers do excellent work every day, and I agree. I also think that the Minister has done an excellent job in that it has had a lot of such a spirit of reform and has taken big, heavy processes forward, which are never easy. They will certainly implement those basic values of our education, but the challenge has been those cuts, as has been said many times in the Chamber. The more we target the cuts, the more we forget the fact that there are very different learners. When we have different learners there is a great need for support, and it is related to resources. And that also has to do with what the representative has to do with. Puumala raised the issue of how to get the foundation right, so that no one, for example, moves from primary school without: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u155	Madam President! There has been a lot of talk in the media about the fact that in secondary education pupils are at home a lot and do not receive this vocational education. However, certain vocational schools now have guild schools. It's a new way to train. In Guild schools, learning and taking action is open-minded and digitalisation is used to support learning. The theory is only 45 minutes a day, after which the rest of the day will be in practical training, i.e. we will do it immediately after learning. Teachers are usually from an entrepreneurial background. They really know what they need in the field, what kind of workers they want from those vocational schools. Then the older students are headmasters of first - class students, that is, they form teams and then train together, and no one is left alone. No one in that school is left alone, he's always part of a team. I'd like to ask the Minister if you've been here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u156	Mr President! I am extremely concerned, I am extremely concerned about the situation in vocational training and the welfare of those who are studying on the vocational education and training side. Nor am I alone in my concern, because our country's Prime Minister, Juha Sipilä, has also expressed concern about the situation in vocational education and has recently suggested that 1000 new teachers should be employed in vocational education and training in order to compensate for the 1,600 reductions caused by government cuts. Clearly, there is a need for this. According to a recent Amisbarometri, among other things, there is no personal curriculum for all students, teachers are concerned about the decline in local education and shortcomings in the field of study health seem to be particularly significant in the professional sector. I'd like to ask the Minister: Why did the government not heed this Prime Minister’s proposal to direct additional funding specifically to the recruitment of 1,000 new teachers? Was it because he didn't come up with this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u157	Mr President! I would like to raise a few concerns, perhaps related to this whole period: I believe that the weakening in early childhood education at the beginning of this period is one of the greatest disgraces of this period and will remain in force when we go into the next period. Then, when we talk about basic education, all the efforts we could have made to strengthen, for example, three - step support, were not made during this period. Then, as far as vocational training and reform are concerned, I am also extremely concerned about how to guarantee adequate education, guidance and also about learning in working life. Now that the eyes turn to the next period, we need a more comprehensive, long-term education policy and investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u158	Mr President! After all, the most serious mistake the government has made has been these billion-dollar cuts. Some of their damage is serious, such as the increase in early childhood education groups and the cuts in vocational education. So the government's direction on key issues has been wrong. Yesterday I attended an OAJ event in Tampere, where there were teachers in vocational education. They told me the news. It is a new feature now, saying that young people do not want to go to work — before we went to practice — when they want to “go”. That is what the teachers told me, and I did not ask this question separately. It was an official meeting of OAJ experts. Well, this was raised here a few weeks ago by the Prime Minister's presentation of 1000 more teachers, as the government had to reduce 1600 and some young people are working a three- to four-day week. Now the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u159	Mr President! It is true that the debate on the budget is now on the agenda of vocational training, a major topic for discussion, and it was also very important that we should continue to support the reform of vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u160	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u242	Mr President! This project funding, when the budget was being discussed and it was flashing here. I myself would see, as one of the biggest things, that there would be stable basic funding in as many sectors of education as possible, that there would be no need to rely on different projects. But then, at the same time, I think we should acknowledge to ourselves that we are quite fond of these projects, because they have a heading. Let's just take the Basic education project: if the money left, there would be a lot of noise in this room. But in spite of this, I think that we should invest in sound basic funding. But my question this time to Minister Terho — that you do not cool off at the mouth of the paint, as you say in one of your favorite species, that the questions do not go in the other direction — as far as the exclusion of young people is concerned. I think we are talking about it a little too little now, and a few years ago we were talking about it all the time. After all, the problem has not gone away: over 60,000 missing youths. What is our next step together? How to get a third sector
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u243	Mr President! I would also like to begin by expressing my thanks to the Committee on Finance for the fact that, in line with the views of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, you have now decided to provide funding for early education on the move, which is also one of the proposals in the report on sports policy. We know that exercise habits start to take shape in early childhood, at the age of three, and it is therefore extremely important that children of early childhood have the opportunity to form healthy, mobile lifestyles. In fact, we in Vantaa are implementing this approach this year in cooperation with early childhood education, physical education and researchers, and the aim is to have all day care centres in mobile day-care centres this year. I would now like to point out to Minister Terho that when you go to the Ministry to consider these methods of implementation, please come and see the Vantaa model, which has given us good results and time. In addition to early childhood education, all schools are: Moving schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u244	Mr President! At the time of the reform of the early childhood education law — which is a really good reform, and we supported that reform — there was talk of kindergarten teacher training and promised to increase whether it was a thousand new places of study. What stage is this now? It's a desperate need. We also have a crying shortage of qualified kindergarten teachers on the Swedish side. Where is this project now? Then there is the second question relating to integration. In Sweden, it is a fundamental right because it is part of education. In Finland it is part of the labour market and if you do not have an integration plan, you are not entitled to receive education. Is it considered that this would be completely transferred to OKM, so that all
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u245	President! At the beginning of this debate, Mr Puumala, chairman of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, quite rightly called for the basis for education, and these speeches were subsequently and quite rightly taken up. I would also like to deepen this by saying that it would be extremely important for interaction between homes and schools to be deepened. Of course, there are extremely strange phenomena that talk of a very negative attitude towards school, an increased attitude towards education and a bullying of teachers. Teachers do not have the resources to address a number of phenomena. Of course, such things are a continuum for boys to go through comprehensive school in practice without literacy. That there is now a need for a much deeper joint debate on problem-solving across administrations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u246	Mr President! This budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture has been widely discussed today. I would like to make a few further withdrawals from this, particularly in relation to student aid, which may be a little misinformation about which decisions have been taken over this period. It is very good that this supplement has now been added to the student allowance. After all, the guardian raise came before, was returned, it was very good, and now this educational material supplement came, which now equalises the costs of secondary students. It is also worth noting that the student support for secondary students has only been improved during this period, and even in the case of the savings that had to be made and which had to be made for university students, it was very important to have been able to change the study support model so that the support for low-income students from the state has risen as a result of the new housing allowance when the students moved to it. This has been important for us to stress that more transfers are now being made to low incomes. I'm sure this is a good model for the left.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u247	Madam President! I was the minister responsible for study aid last season. In the last period, the student grant was not cut by one cent; on the contrary, the student grant was linked to the index, which was the long-term objective and requirement of the student movement. What has this government done? First of all, it not only frozen the index but removed the whole index, and in addition, a quarter of the student money has been cut. For students who were already the lowest-income group, the biggest cuts have been made. These are the facts that are then being patched up with patches and let us try to talk about something quite different. Madam President! The second question — this remained in the air here: Concerns about vocational education have rightly been expressed, and the Prime Minister himself has said that there is a need for more 1000 teachers. Now that 1,600 teachers have been cut by the government and when tomorrow there is a proposal to increase the budget, what will the centre do?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u250	Madam President! Mr Kari raised a good reform here, especially the Lappeenranta and Lahti University of Technology. He also pointed out the model of whether this idea of a university city could not be spread to nearby cities. It is a very important thing always for these city centres, and certainly there is support for this in the centre. Mobility learning programme: It is a good addition that the programme will spread to second level next year. If you look at the means that exercise is widespread, for example, in the prevention of exclusion, it is a very good way. I would like to highlight, for example, Icehearts, which is not done with a cold heart but with a really warm heart, and it has a good model, which is also good to spread around.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u251	Madam President! Many small positive steps have now been taken in early childhood education. However, I would like to remind you that early childhood education is also under great pressure in municipalities at the moment. Some municipalities have been able to maintain a subjective right to early childhood education if their financial capacity has been sufficient. But this, of course, puts children at national level in an unequal position on the basis of their place of residence, and I would like to see attention paid to this. And I would also like to point out that, now that religion and early childhood education have been discussed here, I believe that freedom of religion is, of course, the foundation of society and that we must respect people's spiritual choices, but as a father of small children without religion, I would also like to say that the line between cultural history and religious practice is quite a line drawn in the water. I also hope for understanding, for example, from you members of the Evangelical Lutheran Church to try to take care of this in dialogue and so that we consider one another, we do not exclude people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u252	Mr President! The SDP's Knowledge Path 2030 has started from the fact that in the future we will have to pursue a situation in which Finland's success and global position will continue to be built on education, education and research, and in this way we will build a sustainable society. It is clear that, in order to achieve this, investment is needed, investment in the future now, because education, research and knowledge are, above all, things where all the effects are only visible with a delay, often with a long delay. That is why I would like to raise two further reforms to the debate at this stage, which would be possible now and now, and which will have a long-term impact on the future: Firstly, we really should guarantee all children full-time access to early childhood education. That is the subjective right that we Social Democrats are pursuing, the reform that we are pursuing. And then we really need a secondary degree for all young people, and that is why action should be taken now with regard to the extension of compulsory education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u253	Madam President! I would like to take up this idea of Mr Puumala, the chairman of the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, about how we can involve those who are excluded and at risk in this society. We have now, through the Minister-General, been able to put these Cabs on a permanent footing, but there is still a long way to go before we can get the organisations involved. The cockpits are simply directing, carrying out some sort of evaluation and taking some measures, but I claim that not even the thousand teachers in any way can necessarily reduce this cycle very much, which is among young people if we do not involve the organisations. I presented at the beginning of the parliamentary term, and in the cooperation of the government we went forward in the front line, that we should also include this kind of so-called workshop model that from Ohjaamo to the workshop. The workshop would be like a unit implemented by organizations where you would start training and all other support, such as housing support and friend support and leisure support and then away from intoxicants if you need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u255	Madam President! The knowledge and culture of our citizens are, of course, the basis for the existence of our society and culture. At the moment, Finland is strongly influenced by global forces of change, such as urbanisation, technological development and the transformation of work, all of which require and enable changes to existing structures in education. We need skills and knowledge to solve the great challenges of humanity's existence and well-being from climate change onwards. The education system constitutes a whole, the components of which are interdependent. Therefore, the effectiveness of education needs to be assessed and developed as a whole, not just through partial reforms. What does the Minister think of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u256	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the ministers for clarifying the lawless obligation for secondary students. If the objective is that all young people in Finland should complete at least a secondary degree, there is no reason to put obstacles in the way of studies for the underprivileged, such as forced law before income support is available. Mr President! In order not to forget the truth about these educational promises, there is still a small review: there is only one parliamentary party in Finland that has all the educational cuts and all the educational cuts during the previous parliamentary term, and that party is a coalition. There are also only two parliamentary parties in Finland, whose chairmen made a promise not to cut out education but still did just that, and they are a coalition and a centre. Then there is only one parliamentary party that has yet to make a new commitment to education while the same party is still Prime Minister, and that is the Centre Party of Finland, so I believe that tomorrow, with excitement, we will all be watching whether or not the Centre Party will vote for the resources of vocational education and the thousands of new teachers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u257	Let us take Alanko-Kahiluoto and then the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee and then go to the ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u258	Madam President! The sad thing about this budget of the Ministry of Education and Culture is that the index freezes of higher education institutions will remain, which will also cut them in the coming year, because the costs of space and personnel will increase but the budget will therefore decrease. I have to take a little critical of the praises of the representatives of the government parties regarding this small increase in RD funding, because after the loss of basic funding from higher education institutions it is not the place. The R & D funding currently granted is not reflected in the independent basic research carried out by universities, as it is mainly targeted at companies. In the vision of universities and research, new tasks are being put in place for universities, for example through further education and on-demand training, but there is no desire to provide them with additional funding and resources. I would have asked the Minister: have you now taken a look at the university statements on this money-sharing model? For example, the University of Oulu points out that this current funding model is already extremely result-based in international terms, and now this government funding model would only increase it. Does this make any sense now?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u259	Let us take four more replies, then the ministers answer. We're on a schedule, aren't we? Representatives Kiljunen, Viitanen and then Chairman of the committee, Mr Puumala and Vice-President Multala. Then the ministers’ answer, and then let’s move on to another matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u260	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen: you have invested in and developed workshops, thank you for that, but your government partner from the Ministry of Economic Affairs is unfortunately restricting them, because they are no longer possible in the municipalities or in the local authorities, in the workshops, and they will not be able to provide services in the future but only in the event of market failure. In addition to this, social rehabilitation can no longer be provided by these workshops, but these services will also be transferred to companies. Now, however, you have made possible the work of the workshops, could you say, this focus, but in practice your government partners in the various ministries make this work impossible? What do you think of this whole thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u261	Mr President! I have to say at the outset that it is not a trivial question, which will be the vote tomorrow by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's Party, because it is actually the case that it is a rather strange statement if the Prime Minister, who has a scepter in hand, is to suggest that next season 1000 teachers will be added to vocational training, once they have been reduced by 1600 in this period, and that is why, of course, we should vote accordingly. But, President, I would like to end by thanking the government parties for my part. These additions, which have been made here in this Chamber, are good. I have also said to the government parties that they go to important targets: the dismantling of the rebate cut, this equality money for schools, the digital experiment in libraries, grants to various organisations, including peace work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u264	President! This big line next year can't be hugely wrong, it is this next year, because here, however, we are going to be driving machines up hard and there are permanent investments of EUR 112 million in research and science, among other things. I hope we could think that this would be the right line now and that it would also be followed up in the next parliamentary term. So this really has taken a big turn during this parliamentary term. I will continue with the theory of exclusion, which is where I started at first. The most important thing, in my opinion and in the view of the centre, is that in the next parliamentary term, we should get the foundations and the foundations in order so that there will be sufficient capacity for the next stages and everyone will have the opportunity, regardless of their place of residence, whatever their wealth. The second point is that, among other things, we would be able to get free leisure activities for everyone there during the afternoon, with this exclusion problem, which is quite a Finnish phenomenon — the big drop, over 60,000 young people. It could be one lunch. I would like the Minister and all of us together to look for further innovations in order to involve the third sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u265	Mr President! It is a great thing that, although there are criticisms now, next year the whole of education is going up, as the President has said here. It is also important to comment on these research appropriations that the Academy of Finland is indeed given concessions to support young researchers in particular. They are often the same researchers that our universities study, so that even universities and even basic research can benefit from them. It is not limited in any way to basic or applied research. The criteria in the Academy are peer-reviewed studies at international level. Those who have good plans and applications will be successful there. However, I would also like to say that it is of course extremely worrying if we are to be able to invest in reading and writing skills with inadequate knowledge and skills from primary school, especially in the coming years. I believe that those investments will be driven from that early childhood education, and then, of course, we must also pay attention to comprehensive school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u266	And then the ministers. Secretary Grahn-Laasonen can talk about that place for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u267	Mr President! The Prime Minister is responsible for his own words and I will not comment on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u270	Mr President! There was reference to student aid in a few speeches and we went through this history. Really, the student money was cut, I'm not going around it in any way. I wasn't a minister then, but I was making that decision with the rest of the government. And that there is an overall picture of the matter, I would remind you that, on the one hand, the amount of the state guarantee on the student loan was raised accordingly and, in fact, the amount of available student aid increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u277	At this stage, the general discussion and the section debate will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u278	We will now resume the debate on item 2.8, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. The debate will therefore continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u279	Mr President! The cuts in the Sipilä government's education have been massive. When the education money had already been cut very tight in the previous period, the cuts made by the modern government on top of it were quite fatal. During this term of government, the permanent funding of education has been cut by nearly EUR 900 million. The largest individual cuts have been targeted at vocational education and training. In addition, at all levels of education, basic funding has gradually been slowed down, including index freezes and other cost cutters. This can be seen in the daily life of education. Group sizes of daycare centres and schools have grown. Teachers do not have enough time for their students. Too often students who need support are left to their own devices. Lessons have been cut. In vocational schools, the number of local education may be so low that there is a concern as to whether all the necessary basic vocational skills can be learned. Government cuts in education have been fatal. We are in a situation where our education levels are falling and the learning outcomes have deteriorated. Our education system, which has been praised and praised by the world, is crumbling as a result of drastic cuts. The well-being of education professionals — teachers, early education workers, researchers and professors — is also deteriorating. Teachers at all levels of education are in distress. For example, a survey of teachers’ working conditions shows that 59% of teachers felt that work was often too much last year. The figure has almost doubled from a couple of years earlier, when it was 33 per cent. Education cuts have left teachers to cope with their everyday lives. The workload and demands for teachers are increasing, but the resources are decreasing. Many have come to the limits of their endurance. Many teachers say that they are considering changing the profession, and many have already done so. Similarly, we have been able to read the news about how researchers and professors have gone abroad, where working conditions are significantly better. Mr President! Although the government has made small placements to finance education during its term of office, they do not cover the massive cuts that have been made to education. There is now a small increase in funding, for example, for school club activities, measures to promote educational equality, youth workshops, the promotion of children's physical activity in early childhood education and research, prevention and treatment of indoor air diseases. They're all good targets, but they don't fix the bad damage caused by the surgeries. However, the truth remains that funding for education will also fall next year. At the end of many key projects, the funding of the Ministry of Education and Culture will be over EUR 160 million lower next year than this year. Index cuts have not even been included in this sum, which further undermine the operating conditions of higher education and research, for example. It is clear that we cannot continue to do so. We need a return to education and civilization. This must be Finland's next objective. The next government will have to repair the damage that our training path from toddler to doctor has caused. The next period will require a significant investment in education and training. We are talking about a billion-dollar investment in education and research so that we can re-emerge our skills to the level it should be, for education and research, knowledge and education are Finland's resources and potential competitive advantages that we must not lose.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u280	Mr President! I will pick up a little on where I left off earlier in the day, and then I praised this moving early childhood education and investment in it. There is still something to be said about how much has been done for physical activity and sport this season. The mobile school has been a success story. It has been introduced to over 90% of Finnish schools, and students have enjoyed the increased movement. Besides that, we're really expanding. Moving to the second stage of the school, and it will also be possible to start moving early education, which is an extremely fine thing, because exercise habits start to take shape from early childhood. In addition to this, for the first time in the next year, funds for sports grants have been permanently increased, including grants from the URA Foundation, the Foundation for the Promotion of Sports and increased funding for sports academy activities, so that young athletes in particular are better equipped to practice. In addition to these measures, much more has been done, and one of the last great things was that in the future, access to a grant will no longer be reduced to study aid, i.e. it will no longer be counted as a result when we consider the income limits for student grants, and therefore it will be even easier to combine study and sport. It is important that we in Finland understand that investing in sport and sport is a long-term investment in the future, and I am very pleased that our ministers, both ministers in this area, have done this very well. I have to say that I am also pleased that we now have all spring to deal with the report on sports policy, which contains dozens of measures which could further increase and seek to increase people's mobility. We currently have about four out of five adults moving too little as far as recommendations are concerned, and only about a third of children are moving enough — unfortunately, I am now among those who do not meet these recommendations. But instead of constantly talking about having to get to those recommendations, I hope that we will get to the point that every step is always a step in the right direction and that even a little movement is worth it. Sometimes it is good that we in this Chamber also have to ask for these speeches and stand up, because it is good to cut off even a small sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u281	Mr President! Today I wake up to the fact that the administration of the Ministry of Education and Culture coincides with the day I myself argued 15 years ago as a doctor, and I am perhaps in a somewhat similar mood to Mr Multala, that reading the study is doing a lot of hard work these days, but let them now remind us of the importance of doing these things in the past. But to the point. The SDP’s Knowledge Path 2030 has been a year and a half work in which we have built a vision of the situation picture we currently have. And we have had a lot of alarming signals over the years, even decades, from the situation in vocational education to the level of competence in basic education, and perhaps especially in the situation of boys. Nevertheless, the overall level of funding for education and training will also fall in the beginning of the year on the basis of the proposal. That is why we have reached a conclusion in which we say that we need a refund of honour in Finland for research and education. The 2030 knowledge path is a programme that aims to ensure that in the future we have the prerequisites for a high level of employment and a just Finland for sustainable development. Mr President! At the beginning I referred to research, and the starting point for developing education must indeed be research. It has always been the strength of an educational radical Finland. Over the past year, I have been delighted to see how many researchers have started to participate in our education debate, both the Economic Policy Review Council in the beginning of the year and in the magazine Soi & so on last summer's article on the value choices and direction of education policy. During the autumn, we have seen articles in Kanava magazine, Suomen Kuvalehti, Helsingin Sanomat Viestenpeni column and in the new progress report. The message of researchers has all been quite strong: education needs to be reformed and developed over a long period of time, because education and skills policies are such that the effects are always delayed. That is why we would emphasise future investment now. In particular, I would like to raise two reforms which should be implemented immediately: a full-time, equal path for all children to a nearby day-care centre. That is the reform of early childhood education that we would be pursuing. Then we need vocational or upper secondary school education for all young people, because in today's world, you can't cope with comprehensive school alone. After all, the Professor-led Economic Policy Evaluation Council recommended extending compulsory education to secondary education, which is essentially free of charge for upper secondary school and vocational education. The SDP therefore supports an integrated school path leading from a nearby day care centre to a secondary degree for all children and young people. Mr President! It is these two major reforms that are lacking in the government proposal. In order to use the term ‘government’ used by Minister of Finance Orpo himself, ‘the government has to make small corrections, but it has to do so in the run-up to major In early childhood education, the classification of children according to parental employment continues and is highest among children who benefit most from early childhood education. For example, the targeted investment of 10 million in project funding does not address the problem of mega-equal opportunities. In the same way, a model of trying to solve the second-degree costs and the problems that need to be faced by families with low incomes is very forceful. The educational material supplement of the Board of Directors seems forced to be invented and, for example, Kela believes that it is a bureaucratic and non-functional solution, if you can actually call it a solution. At least it's not a universal educational solution. Mr President! There is a slight change in direction in the Government's proposal on positive aspects of RD funding as a whole. The 4% target therefore requires a road map to be prepared as soon as possible, and I am delighted that the Minister has said that it has already begun. However, our joy in the basic funding of higher education institutions does not prevail, as the index freeze continues to be complete. Last today, Jari Niemelä, President of the University of Helsinki, wrote wisely about the importance of civilization to society. Higher education and science, and indeed basic funding, are at the heart of a civilised society. Finally, Mr President, thank you: the work done by the Section for Education and Science has been valuable and the allocation of additional contributions can be welcomed, even if they do not involve massive cuts in the place on a scale, of course. The private copying fee, for example, is increased by additional funding for authors and musicians to the level it has previously been. The thing that is dear to me, i.e. sports clubs, increasing the equality of children, has also been taken into account. In addition, there will be an increase in the number of workshops for young people, which is valuable for the youth guarantee. I'd raise the budget small, but it's very important. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u282	Mr President! The Government has cut EUR 900 million from education, which has led to the loss of Finnish expertise. Basic funding for universities has been cut and university indices frozen. The cuts made at the beginning of the season have only been partially reversed. Large cuts make the basic activities of universities difficult: education, research, education, maintenance of the level of education. Universities and polytechnics have had to negotiate. Thousands of jobs have been lost in universities alone. Universities are now in need of jobs, the future of research and science, the future of Finland. It must also be borne in mind that when Aalto University was established, it was promised considerably more funds than Aalto University has received so far. Universities produce seed potatoes for the future if investments are made in the quality of research and the well-being of researchers. Scientists need to work in peace. Creativity is enhanced by the fact that there is no constant need to be concerned about the continuity of funding. The investigator must also have the opportunity to fail. I would like to clarify this, because failure can also lead to something new and surprising. Basic research is also what is behind all new innovations and inventions. An excellent example of the strength of basic research is the ALD technology developed by the Millennium Prize winner Tuomo Suntola. Tuomo Suntola invented and patented this atomic layer technology in 1974. The very conductive thin film is currently used in microprocessors, solar cells, LED lamps and lithium ion batteries. Suntola lectured here in Parliament, and it was impressive to hear about the stages of the invention. The first application was Helsinki Airport's display boards in the 1980s, but the technological breakthrough in electronic products started only in 2007. We cannot know what future success stories today's research will lead to. We can't pick winners, and you don't want to put eggs in one basket. The Government has reduced the opportunities for free science and basic research and selected funding targets through key projects. Many of them have been fine, but they have only been a Band-Aid for giant cuts in education and science. The government’s drastic cuts in education also discipline basic education, vocational education and upper secondary school education. Decreasing the base of education reduces the opportunities for young people and increases youth unemployment. The cuts of EUR 190 million in vocational education and training have led to a reduction in vocational training and a decline in local education. The number of young people left without education is increasing. Today, comprehensive school is not enough for employment. The world has become more complex and many jobs require skills and skills. This is also reflected by the fact that the employment rate of people who depend on primary school alone is only 40%. Their risk of exclusion is high. We can't afford to lose children and young people. Therefore, a second level is needed free of charge so that people with low income can also afford to go to upper secondary school or vocational school. It is therefore necessary to extend the compulsory education age in order to guarantee training for each young person. The situation in early childhood education has also deteriorated. Children of the unemployed are not entitled to full-time day care in the municipalities that have introduced the restriction. Children are in an unequal position depending on the municipality in which they live. The government has not taken into account the protective effects of early childhood education, such as the fact that now families with fatigue or mental health problems can receive support in their daily lives by arranging day care for the child. Finally, I would like to raise the Committee's EUR 1 million increase in social assistance to support the exercise of deprived children, and thank you for that. The pursuit of children with limited means must be supported with earmarked funds so that every child has the opportunity to engage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u283	Mr President! Perhaps it is worth saying to the parliamentary minutes that it is about one o'clock at night and the parliament has already had a two-hour debate in the afternoon on the budget section of the Ministry of Education and Culture and now is going a little like this after-sales. Mr President! In the opinion of the Social Democrats, the dismantling of education and partial ideological obsolescence must be stopped. When the public education system is weakened, room is made for private market-driven training services. This is what we have been talking about, for example, in early childhood education. For social democrats, educational equality and equality between people are fundamental values. We believe that a balanced distribution of opportunities for education and learning contributes to the development of Finnish society towards a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable future. Without equal education there will be no equal society. Education and continuous knowledge and development throughout life are the best insurance against the risks of the labour market and, at the same time, are the best means of reducing inequalities in the long term. Mr President! But what happened now? What has the Sipilä government done? In my opinion, the most serious mistake has been to save a billion dollars and betray the promise of education. The most serious wounds and marks are seen in the growth of early childhood education groups, cuts in primary school equality funds and vocational education. Universities of higher education have also been caught in the cold. I believe that at the heart of education policy there should be a high level of competence and the re-emerging of Finland into one of the leading educational countries in the world. By the way, that place belongs to Finland. The direction of the Sipilä government has taken you in the other direction. It's the wrong direction. Earlier in the afternoon's debate, I brought up a meeting in Tampere the other day when I had been invited to a meeting of professional teachers at the Pirkanmaa district of the OAJ. I was told from more than one mouth that some of the young people do not want to go to work — ‘well,’. Teachers said this was a whole new thing, it's never been like this before. Well, young people have been cut by a fifth according to the OAJ survey, 20 percent. We know that there has been a debate on the fact that the working week is three to four days, and that is, of course, an intolerable situation for many 16-year-olds. The alarm clocks should still ring today when we vote on next year's budget. Well, some surprise was that Prime Minister Sipilä, a couple of weeks ago, was proposing to hire 1,000 teachers. If the Prime Minister is in line with his words, the necessary correction will begin this morning when we vote on the section of the Ministry's budget. Yesterday, I also asked Mr Grahn-Laasonen, Minister for Education, what he thinks about the Prime Minister's proposal to do this, while at the same time the schools have reduced 1,600 teachers. So would it have been time for the Minister of Education to confess and admit that mistakes have been made, really mistakes? Well, the Minister of Education did not diplomatically or otherwise want to answer my question. Mr President! Finally, knowledge, science and research are the main theme of the next government. A moment ago, the esteemed member of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Mr Pilvi Torsti, spoke roughly about the Knowledge Path 2030 programme prepared by the SDP, which will bring Finland back to a higher level of education. So hope lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u284	Madam President! In Finland, a significant amount of public money is being allocated to the prevention of exclusion and assistance for the excluded, and now more and more private money is being allocated. However, the focus is often on solving problems and not on preventing their causes. On the basis of this study, we know of the risk factors associated with the exclusion of young people, but there is obviously not yet a very precise picture of how the risks affect each other. The situation is beginning to be that it would be possible, on the basis of information, to direct aid to those who most need it. In future, it would be possible to target limited resources precisely if individual data protection did not prevent this. Resources are limited, so targeted support is wise. From the school’s point of view, there are many nice things in the budget, such as grants for the strengthening of equality in basic education and quality development, as there are clear regional differences between schools and different possibilities for local authorities to finance education. It is a great thing that the committee increased EUR 2 million to promote equality and quality in education in primary and primary education. Another activity at school that prevents exclusion is club activities. Club activities have been found to have many beneficial effects on children’s well-being and success in school and on the prevention of exclusion. The activities are also regionally comprehensive and free-of-charge low-threshold activities for participants, where it is easy to engage in or start a new hobby. That is where the EUR 3 million pot is now available to support traditional club activities. In committee we heard a lot of criticism from experts about the financial system for leisure activities. In 2017, the Ministry of Education and Culture commissioned a report on measures taken by the state administration to promote leisure activities for children and young people. The survey shows that some EUR 253 million annually is indirectly or directly supported in recreational activities. Even though this amount is significant, it does not meet well with a child or a young person. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture alone there are at least 15 different forms of state aid, with around two-and-a-half thousand separate financing decisions taking place each year, of course involving funding, search and reporting processes. State aid for club activities is only one of these. It was also criticised that supported forms of leisure activities and funding focus primarily on children and young people who already have hobbies. Supported activities target one and the same children and young people, when children are excluded from hobby activities that would benefit in particular from the activities and would be in need of them. At the moment, therefore, the system ignores the real needs of leisure activities for children and young people, and because the advantage and logic of providing leisure services are a priority in the allocation of resources, the system is strongly producer-oriented, not customer-oriented. In other words, it came to mind that the whole of this aid system should be looked at and, in particular, special grants to promote school-related activities should be brought together in a broader context in order to avoid the extra bureaucracy that has been tried so hard to combat and eliminate during this period. But then a little more look into the future. Public finances have been made much better during this parliamentary term, so a better position can be taken in the coming parliamentary term and various proposals can be made. The key objectives of the city centre are to strengthen the consolidation of basic funding at different levels of education. The most important priority is to put the basis of education in order. Inequality, learning differences and exclusion threaten the success story of Finnish comprehensive school, and we have put forward as one of the options for this, or as one important thing, a school for young children, with a checkpoint that would run until the end of the second class, and would only be able to move forward once the objectives have been achieved, the minimum targets have been achieved. — It is quite difficult to try to speak clearly at night.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u287	Mr President! With regard to this budget line of the Ministry of Education, which has already been covered in quite a number of stages of discussion, I thought at this stage of the debate, to highlight these additions, which the committees in particular wanted to do in the area of OKM's administration, and targets where there have been specific needs to be met. Particularly important additions to this will be EUR 112 million in permanent appropriations for science and research, an increase of EUR 10 million in training in skills shortages, including EUR 15 million in the implementation of vocational education reform and EUR 10 million in the reform of upper secondary school and matriculation examination — these are important and expected additions. EUR 10 million will also be allocated to the training of immigrants. What has also been particularly important is the fact that the administrative sector of OKM has received, for example, this material supplement for the learning materials of young people undergoing secondary education, and also the fact that these means are also sought by means of a separate project to reduce these costs in general in education. This has, in particular, been raised by student organisations themselves as an important step towards making the procurement of these learning materials significantly cheaper by changing the way in which they operate and changing the way in which they acquire them, by developing their lending methods, and so on. There may not always be a need for additional money, but we can also increase it at this stage, thanks to an improved economy. As far as the so-called Christmas gift money in this Parliament is concerned, it is particularly important to prevent the exclusion of young people. An additional EUR 1 million will be presented for youth workshop activities and for Nuotta training
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u290	Madam President! From now on, the mobile study programme will be in second place, and it will certainly be very important to consider how this money will be allocated. It has already attracted a great deal of interest from various educational institutions, it has already been well sought at this stage, and it is good that the educational institutions are enthusiastic about this. Sport is capable of tackling a wide range of challenges. As we know, it really stimulates brain circulation, and learning results improve, and probably fatigue would also disappear if you moved more — for example at night. I think that it would also be good to think about ways, for example, in the area of prevention of exclusion in this secondary mobility programme, because different types of exercise can affect the way everyone is involved. When you play games that really make it easy for everyone to come and play, it is quite different from those where you need some special skills. This requires expertise from these directors and from this programme, and fortunately this is what we can find in Finland. There has been talk here earlier in the day in the speeches of many party representatives about the need to put the foundations in order for children and young people to have a good starting point for life. Mrs Parviainen has pointed out the model of the centre, as I did in my earlier speech today. I would add that once again it is extremely important — we have the best teachers in the world in our country, and there is good knowledge here — how we can find enthusiasm and motivation for that study in young people and children. It is an extremely important skill, then, for that life-long learning, because it is quite clear that it will be. The writing and reading skills also received additional funding. Let me add: Social assistance — an extremely important issue. More funding for school club activities — good. In this debate:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u291	Mr President! Although the opposite may have been said here, next year the direction will be better and new resources will be invested in education and training, such as research and development, product development, innovation, 112 million in permanent new contributions to the budget, which is an extremely fine thing. There are also a few points to be raised that will come about next year. For example, learning the first foreign language begins in the first grade — in the spring of the first year of basic education from 2020 onwards, this funding will start. The experiment on free early childhood education for five-year-olds will also be extended. This has attracted a great deal of interest, and it is great that we get experience from it for the future, because we in the assembly see that this equality in education already originates from early childhood education and that early childhood education can reduce learning differences when entering comprehensive school. In addition to this, however, I have had some discussions with researchers about learning difficulties, and it is really important that learning difficulties are identified at a very early stage, at the latest in the first grade of comprehensive school. When a child receives sufficient support and help not only from school but also from his/her own family, the child does not develop the identity of a poor learner, and very quickly, if you get the right kind of help and support, you can get in with the usual teaching rate. It is therefore important to identify the challenges at an early stage. I would also like to say that the upper secondary school law we are discussing in the Committee on Education and Education and adopted here will come into force next year at the beginning of August and the upper secondary school education will be renewed. There will be higher education cranes and opportunities for internationalisation and student guidance, which is a very good thing, because high school students have already been burdened with their studies, and I believe that there is a great need for student guidance, even now that the admission test reform has been carried out by universities and universities. You can't talk enough about reading and writing. It is good that we have separate programmes to develop literacy. Daily reading together with children is really important. Unfortunately, I missed it today when I am here to discuss with you, but by the way, every night we read our children a bedtime story, and hopefully as many parents as possible do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u292	Congressman Multala, I hope tomorrow night you will have a chance to read your child a story, that's a very valuable thing. There is now an interesting situation between and between the opposition and the government parties. Here Mr Pilvi Torsti quoted that in this big picture of education policy there has now been a certain form of coagulation. This is mainly due to these significant savings, but in parallel with this, the government has made certain small patchwork steps over the last year, which should not be underestimated as such, but there is no way out of it that they are now unfortunately nothing more than the big picture, and this is what the Nobel Prizelists in economics and the EK and so on have been missing. The government’s education policy has received a very poor assessment from experts. The importance and value of physical activity has rightly been raised from representatives such as Multala and Kosonen. I agree with that. In fact, in the last ten, fifteen years I have already thought this way in myself that comprehensive school actually has four or five core tasks, vision, the most important of which of course is learning, the second is education, education, the third is well-being, caring for children's well-being, and then, fourthly, I have always had physical activity, but I also see in it the growing role and importance of arts and crafts, that exercise itself through dance and other means enables absolutely huge dimensions, including music and so on. And then the fifth is this more common form of human growth, growing as a citizen, civic skills. These should be followed, strengthened in our primary school goals, and the good principal looks after these and commits teachers, children's parents and children to this. Mr President! It was interesting to hear the views of the training politicians in the centre yesterday and today. It is easy to agree that the basic task of comprehensive school must be strengthened. That is what I myself have just referred to. But it does not rule out that the development of comprehensive school and the extension of compulsory education, the compulsory education age, are not part of that training path. And I hope that the Centre Party and the Coalition Party will be genuinely involved in this debate, because the OAJ, as an important expert organisation, is also supporting this increase in compulsory school life. I personally agree with the idea put forward a moment ago that, in the case of the small children's school, in that second-class phase, we should also look at those learning conditions. But that's what I think about normal school activities, I wouldn't make these things big then anyway. But I understand the idea, especially if and when we assume that this early childhood education will become more or less compulsory or less compulsory at the age of 5 to 6 or preschool, because these will also form a continuation of this kind and an evaluation target. I'm sure we'll have something to do with the election debate as we did after the election. Let's see who will succeed in the elections and then make a good government programme and raise the education level and skills of the whole population and restore Finland to the world's top country in terms of this education and equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u293	Madam President! I am a little obliged to address this statement by Mr Torst that the government is ‘in the run-up to the democratic reforms’. There is no way I can say that here on the educational front, because this period has seen almost every degree renewed, except in primary school. For example, this long-awaited early childhood education law was completed and, among other things, the reform of vocational education and training, which has been expected for 30 years, and so on, so I would not talk about clotting. If we look a little to that future and see what echoes I have heard from that teacher from the educational institutions, perhaps next season there could be a little place for such surface gas to be renewed, that is, given a little space for the reforms that have been made a lot. Of course, there is a certain type of slicing certainly, and improvements can be made all the time, but, for example, it is on that side of the elementary school that the introduction of these various reforms into such large educational institutions, where they have a much longer transition than we have here in the parliamentary term, takes time, so that, for example, this kind of phenomenal learning then goes for example through all the doctrines, that we learn those ways, how it works best. But the forthcoming government talks will see what happens between those who happen to be here. I'd like to raise these RD stakes one more time. In that earlier debate yesterday a representative Jaskari raised this proportion of applied research and its importance in terms of cooperation between universities and universities and companies. Perhaps I would also raise the view that, since companies are, however, engaged in global trade, operate in an international environment and often do development work with these customer companies, we should also think on this basis about our financial side, that we should not simply exclude any possibility. These financing models should be made more flexible so that this is indeed the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u294	Mr President! Perhaps it could be said that ‘otemporums’. I think it tells us something about the Finnish educational world that five days before Christmas at 2:30 a.m. we are actually having a very high-quality and future-oriented debate on education policy, and that is why I took the floor myself. Let me say, Mr President, that at the same time I myself celebrate the fact that it is 15 years since I danced in my doctoral column at about the same time. In the speeches by the Centre Party and the Assembly, it has been said on several occasions that we are moving towards a better direction and, on the other hand, perhaps this phrase will be repeated in the camp of the Centre. Of course, it is easy to agree with these. However, I would like to point out, as if it were a contradiction or observation, that now that we are reading scientists' assessments — for example, when Mr Kosonen has now raised this issue of reform — we have to ask what reform is, what is meant by renewal, what is cutting, what is a major change, what is innovation and so on. Perhaps this criticism has been specifically linked to the projects of such a fast-track policy culture. It has not at all been a phenomenon of this regime, but it has been a longer Finnish phenomenon of education policy, which we may do well to become aware of in some way and then to look critically at when we start from here. I personally think it is perhaps the most difficult policy, which has been very tempting in the field of early childhood education, which first has been subjective, then there have now been very many experiments at both municipal and national levels — quite good things, but it becomes very difficult to perceive the whole and assess the impact of it when it comes to simultaneous and sometimes slightly changing directions. Therefore, when we start looking forward to the years ahead — perhaps in this group of people who want to discuss education policy here at this time — I found it interesting that last week a report by Tomi Kiilakoski and Tommi Hoikkala was published in which they wondered whether questions such as continuous learning and digitalisation would be similar to those in which some type of committee-type work would be good to build, especially in a political over-the-election spirit, and also so that such research and impact assessments would be transparent all the time. To be honest, this is not what we have had in recent years, in fact, in the reform of education policy. They have not been able to be very objectively assessed by other actors than those in the government who have done them. So this is the idea I'd leave here to sprout. And yes, I agree with Mr Multala's assessment that, precisely on the R & D side, this change of direction was the most significant if it was to be targeted quite strongly at the company-led R & D. So what we really need to put a lot of money into is to think about how we are going to take care of our universities' research and researchers, so that innovations can be created in the future too, that we do not sort of empty the bank and wonder what the next step is. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u295	Mr President! It's okay to take it from here. In this appendix there was also money to be allocated to the Academy of Finland for young researchers, and this has been an extremely challenging point. I understand that a researcher's career may not be able to find funding, and now this has been found in this sort of targeting, which hopefully at least contributes little to helping in this. And then, if we think, however, that we have a goal — at least the coalition is committed to that vision of higher education and research for 2030, and that is one of the objectives — a 4% share of GDP in RD funding, then that is not only achieved through public funding or through university funding, but we need companies to be involved in it. It is therefore very important that steps should now be taken towards moving ahead with this objective. After all, funding through Business Finland will hopefully not remain simple funding, but will generate more RD funding on the part of companies, and so hopefully this money will be repeated through it. Otherwise, we will by no means achieve this objective, at least I believe, which most of us have signed. I have to say that we agree on a great many points. Perhaps we will have different views on some of the measures, at least at the level of the objectives. And when this researched information is often called for, there are also researchers who say, among other things, that ‘the age of compulsory education is supported. It is an easy solution for politicians, a traditional administrative sham solution. Three more years of schooling will not improve the situation of young people whose ability to engage in further studies is poor.” This is precisely our concern at the meeting, when more than 10% of primary school graduates graduate with insufficient reading and writing skills, and this is precisely the basis that needs to be put in order as a matter of priority. At the moment, we have an educational month, which means that there are study places for all. The bigger problem is the suspension, and we will not be able to tackle this by extending compulsory education if the knowledge and skills are not in order. We must first of all be able to give everyone the basic skills there at elementary school and then, of course, to help those who are in danger of falling from that second level. And at least I would extend it to secondary education and then vocational education. In addition to this, we are also prepared to extend compulsory education, but on the comprehensive school side, so that comprehensive school really achieves the goals of comprehensive school, i.e. sufficient further education and knowledge and skills to succeed in life as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u296	Mr President! I was about to give up, but Mr Gustafsson's speech made one last point. This school for young children does involve a major change in the current situation. After all, the situation today is that children, as a rule, are moving with their peers from one year to the next. Today, it is very rare for the class to be reviewed. This school for young children involves giving the child time in it during preschool, one, two, so that one of the children can move forward, if they have the skills, this three-year package in two years, but if more time is needed, then four years, for some perhaps five years, maybe that's it. So that means that children no longer go to comprehensive school by age group. I think it's a pretty big change, and it's a cultural change right there. We are now facing a huge challenge in the future with regard to this education. At the same time, we need to start building a sustainable foundation from there — ‘baseline’is notinfrasic —and at the same time we need to ensure that we do not transfer new pupils toother levels of inadequacy. So that means that we already have to go to other classes in comprehensive school for stronger support and perhaps apply for new aids to that school and then, in the eighth grade at the latest, start to support the path that is moving in which direction, give opportunities to these students, who have abilities, to perform even more and again give more capacity to those who are heading towards the professional side. But that is not enough when we have to train those who are not fully qualified for secondary education at the moment. And then again: we will have new people to train through change in work and change, who will need to be equipped for new jobs. In other words, it is quite a challenge in the coming parliamentary term to put this whole education in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u297	Madam President! This is where Mrs Parviainen very well opened up this centre's idea of training reforms next season. Perhaps, in relation to these skills, what he has already said with merit, what these young people should have, I would add that of course reading and writing skills, math skills, schooling skills, but there are also many young people who lack such basic skills, i.e. cannot come to school at the right time, not enough to sleep, not to eat well, then, especially, there is no exercise there. In other words, this kind of life management and even taking into account the basics of this kind is extremely important for many young people. Mr President! And now to this university and college world. There has been a lot of criticism from universities and universities about this kind of project funding, and also in these key projects, which may have been referred to by Mr Torstikin, has been very tempting. We in the centre do see that this university and higher education funding should be very transparent and also that these institutions will have as little bureaucracy as possible to deal with and that there will be more basic funding that will then enable them to achieve the objectives they have set in their strategies. In this respect, this amendment to the law on universities and higher education, which we have already adopted, is a response. It is there that this project funding will then be reduced on the side of this continuing learning, which is a very good thing. Even then, from this university funding in general: Finnish higher education funding, specifically from the public side, is a top priority in the OECD countries. As Mr Multala said here, we would now have to involve companies strongly in research and development and then here in education. Now it is a pleasure to note that Supercell has responded to one of the challenges. Finland is plagued by a lack of code, and now they have set up a private coding school that provides higher education at higher education level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u298	Mr President! I will begin to conclude the debate on my part and respect the President's time. I know you've had a rough couple of weeks. In fact, I will only address one point. This was a good thing that you opened up this small children's school and that world of thought and values. I'm sure there's a lot of brains in it, and then we'll watch it in the future. But then about compulsory school age: This is where Mr Multala referred to one expert. Well, I also consider myself a training expert on this issue. I've got a lot of research and stuff I've been going through. I think the best thing was when Professor Roope Uusitalo, the President of the Economic Council, whom I have appreciated, very convincingly explained why it is necessary and necessary, and in some rhetorical way asks why a 16-year-old, a minor, has the right to decide this way to stay home and sit on the couch. Well, of course, it is not so simple, and I agree with the assessment — I have talked a lot about it — that raising the compulsory school age is not automatic but requires the renewal of a strong primary school, especially secondary school, when young people become, as it were, self-evident that the learning path continues. And when I read the reform legislation on vocational education and training and there are always these descriptions of different systems in different countries, in Denmark, 60 percent of children still go to this kind of thing after primary school, which can now be called tenth grade — you heard correctly, 60 percent. They complete their studies, mature, etcetera. After all, we have a significant proportion of children and young people leaving comprehensive school who are somehow very uncertain about where to go, where to go and so on. Well, that alone is why there is no need for an increase in compulsory school age, and that is why I am also emphasising the operational and substantive development of comprehensive school. But, among other things, when there are states in America with a compulsory education age of 18 years, studies there — comparative studies when there are others — say that they are doing well and doing much better in their lives than those who do not have that compulsory education. - All right, that's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u299	Mr President! I shall, in fact, pick up briefly what Mr Gustafsson decided to do, and I would also like to say for myself that after that — if someone does not behave provocatively or ask questions — I may not be able to ask for the floor. But two comments on this speech by Mr Multala. First, this training moon. That is how interesting it is — the former Minister of Education, Mr Gustafsson, remembers, in a much more detailed way than the one who signed it — that it was precisely the issue of dealing with the whole age group, not with specific measures, but with the whole age group, and that has resulted in a considerable increase in the number of upper secondary schools at the level of the whole age group. So in that sense it was exactly the kind of action that, in a sense, is opposed to compulsory education again, and perhaps I myself would say that it was even surprisingly quick to act at the level of several percentage points. And as a second comment, in connection with this research evidence: It has been one of the most important doctoral dissertations, i.e. the doctoral dissertation of economist Hanna Virtanen, whose research setting is rare in education policy. In general, we find it difficult to find a study that could, in a way, assess the impact on the future, but it was now able to assess it from the beginning or not to start in secondary school and how it will affect the future, as it were, at a similar baseline. And its validity was so significant that the Economic Policy Evaluation Council reached the conclusion that Mr Gustafsson said there. This, in a sense, leaves completely open the whole of our other debate, which is, of course, a superlevant in relation to the competence levels offered by comprehensive school and so on, but the big picture that everyone still shares is that basic education today is also secondary. And within the framework of Hanna Virtanen’s doctoral thesis there is a reasonably convincing evidence that the fact that it will also become a compulsory education for all is a legitimate movement, along with all these other movements. We will probably come back to these next spring, but I think it is important to remember this thesis by Hanna Virtanen in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u300	Mr President! I, too, was thinking of drawing that conclusion, and I am not going back to this compulsory education debate. I think we will be able to discuss these many more times, which is absolutely excellent. But what is great, of course, is that education is still being discussed here in the middle of the night. Surely we all believe that without knowledge this nation will not succeed now and will not succeed in the future. Although there have also been unfortunate cuts here, and I find them extremely unpleasant — of course, all of us sitting in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media have heard of their effects too — I must admit that I am therefore extremely pleased that the direction is now improving. Let us hope that the economy and employment will continue to move in the right direction so that this same thing can then be continued during the next term of government and that we do not need to talk about cuts in education, at least in education. Here, however, we obviously have a reasonably uniform view that early childhood education is also an important part of the educational path. I would like to point out once again that I am still, although it has already been criticised here, that this funding for equality does not cover everything — certainly not everything — extremely happy that early childhood education is now also receiving its own funding for equality. For example, we in Vantaa have many areas where the majority of children who are in early childhood education are foreign-language speakers, do not necessarily speak Finnish very much or speak it as their second language, and parents do not necessarily speak Finnish. In these areas, the need for more staff has already been identified, and in particular for staff who speak Finnish. Now that the state is offering its assistance to this, I believe that we will also be able to improve the equality of education in early childhood education and thus the ability of everyone to start in primary school and learn the important knowledge and skills there. I would also like to raise the club activity — here I listed these good things in the field of sports and sports, but I really forgot about it. It's a good thing we don't have the money for club activities right now. And the second thing I forgot to mention is the private copying credit. It was discussed earlier in this Chamber and it is good now that the Committee on Finance decided to raise the funding to the level at which it has been. But that need will not go away, and this funding model will in future be seen as what that fair remuneration really is, and so that this method of compensation will be technologically neutral in the future and not as if always looking into history. I am sure that we will continue to discuss this in the coming days and years.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u301	Section 24 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will now be presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u302	Madam President! Thank you to the members of the Administrative and Security Section for their good cooperation in the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition, we must thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the staff of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs for a very flexible and competent approach to committee work. I would like to present the main points of the report by the Committee on Finance. Operating expenditure of the External Action Service: EUR 225.1 million is proposed for this article, which is EUR 5.6 million more than in the 2018 budget. Of this, approximately EUR 135 million will be allocated to the cost of a network of 90 Delegations. It is important for Finland that all illegal residents return or return to their country of origin as soon as possible. There are several thousand undocumented persons in Finland who are at risk of becoming victims of international crime or part of the activities of terrorist organisations. In the interests of the credibility of the system, the return of persons to the country of origin must also be made work. The Committee also welcomes the conclusion of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and Iraq, which entered into force in August 2018. The Agreement obliges citizens who do not fulfil the conditions in force to enter or reside in the territory of the other Party. The committee considers it necessary to make the agreement work in practice. Mr President! The international security situation has clearly deteriorated in recent years from a European perspective. Security threats are also increased by increased opportunities for espionage and harassment as a result of digitalism. However, security threats have increased everywhere, and the Committee considers it important that the budget should provide sufficient resources to ensure the safety of all delegations. In recent years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with additional funding from the Parliament, has implemented international communications aimed at the region of origin of migration, addressing issues such as return migration and human smuggling and related humanitarian risks. The committee adds EUR 150000 to the communication on illegal entry. Mr President! Only enough for the committee to emphasise that the foreign building stock must be taken care of in a timely manner. International development cooperation: Government development expenditure is estimated to be €988.6 million in 2019. According to forecasts, this corresponds to around 0,41 % of GDP. In implementing development cooperation, the Committee stresses the expertise of NGOs, as demonstrated by e.g. evaluation projects carried out in 2016 and 2017, and considers it necessary to restore the funding cut in 2016 to the funding of organisations. The committee considers that strengthening women's and girls' rights and status is one of the key challenges for sustainable development. The Committee also highlights the fact that development funds are increasingly committed to development objectives and stresses the need for the target countries to recognise their development challenges. Finland must be able to clearly express its own will and, if necessary, suspend aid if the country of destination does not meet the agreed objectives. It is important, for example, to examine objectively the content of teaching material produced in Palestine and to assess the conditions for further support. The committee also considers it necessary to assess the commitment of development cooperation funds to the conclusion and implementation of the Return Agreement. Mr President! Here I have enough time to say from Finnfundi that the committee considers Finnfund to be necessary and justified. The role of the private sector in Finland's development cooperation has grown with the capitalisation of Finnfund and financial financing of development cooperation, in line with the guidelines of the Development Policy Report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u303	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, both of them, for their thorough examination of the draft budget for 2019 and for the valuable comments received from it. Consultations have also been very necessary. We have had plenty of time in them to discuss and bring up these problems and solutions. This is just the way things should be handled in Finland: to discuss, talk through and through and look for common aspects. It's very valuable. In a complicated world, simple is valuable, and then it is best for these things to be viewed face to face and discussed and given enough time. Thank you to both committees for that. Finland's foreign and security policy aims to strengthen Finland's international position, safeguard our independence and territorial integrity, and improve the safety and well-being of Finns and maintain the functioning of society. A sustainable economy, a functioning rule-based trading system and international competitiveness contribute to achieving these objectives. Geopolitics has returned. The changed operating environment is characterised by a strong increase in hybrid activity. The international security situation has deteriorated from a European perspective in recent years. Climate issues, resource adequacy, food security, poverty and changes in energy production affect the global environment. The need for more effective international cooperation has increased. Madam President! The EU is characterised by the UK separation process on the one hand, and the EU's efforts to improve its own efficiency on the other. Migration and the threat of terrorism and radicalisation increase expectations of the EU's ability to act, and it has to be said quite frankly that there is considerable room for improvement in this capacity. With the changes in the environment, Nordic contacts and, in particular, cooperation with Sweden are important and we must be aware that, despite the difficulties and differences of opinion, transatlantic cooperation is extremely important to us. When I started as Foreign Minister three and a half years ago, I had five priorities that have been highlighted in the work of the Foreign Affairs Administration. They were the Arctic regions, the security of the Baltic Sea, strengthening cooperation between Finland and Sweden, transatlantic cooperation and mediation. The Finnish Presidency, which began in November as President of the Council of Europe, the Presidency of the Arctic Council, which will continue until May, and the Presidency of the EU from the end of 2019, will also give Finland the opportunity to influence and also the duty of international cooperation on issues that are important to us. Mr President! As Mr Niikko said, EUR 225 million is proposed for operational expenditure. The extensive and functional network of representations is very important to us. This government stated at the beginning of its term that, as in previous years, the network of missions was not reduced — and has not been reduced. The Committee on Finance rightly points out that the question of the network of representations is important and this will also be taken into account when drawing up the new government programme. The Government has seen the need to expand the mission network, and next year the Finnish Embassy in Baghdad will be reopened. This will contribute most effectively to the development of bilateral relations with Iraq and also to the debate on speeding up the return of those who have received a negative asylum decision. And just as the Committee on Finance states, it is essential that the so-called PCA agreement between the EU and Iraq be put into practice, including the citizens' return clause. I would like to thank both committees for their support for the re-opening of this delegation. I also fully agree with the Committee on Finance that, when drawing up the forthcoming government programme, digital savings should be targeted so that they can be achieved without reducing the current network of delegations, and I would like to thank the committee for this line, which must also be taken into account by the Foreign Minister. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, I share the concerns of the committees about the deterioration of the international security situation. Changes in the international operating environment will further increase the security and security related expenditure of the Finnish delegation network. As you have seen, these issues are very acutely present on a daily basis, including today in relation to the EU's safety nets and their possible hacking and espionage. It is also important to ensure the safety and resilience of personnel in areas where there is a high level of threat. The joint communication and practical export promotion skills of Team Finland actors will be developed in cooperation with Business Finland in the Finnish Foreign Affairs Administration. Mr President! Just a brief word about crisis management. Finland will continue its active participation in international crisis management. This will also strengthen our own security, national defence capabilities and capabilities. This is also an important part of immigration. A total of 51 million people are proposed for the maintenance costs of Finnish crisis management forces and in 2019 the maximum number of staff is estimated to be around 500 person-years. Any new operations will continue to have to be dealt with in amending budgets. The importance of mediation for Finland's foreign and security policy is absolutely central, and I am glad that this has also been made clear in the committee's reports. Minister Virolainen will then speak more about development cooperation. Finally, I would like to talk about the money for regional cooperation, the financing of the Baltic Sea, Barents and the Arctic. It is important that we also deal with matters that are important to us, our region's affairs, and not just take a stand on the world's problems and world affairs, and in this respect our neighbourhoods are extremely important. We must also take into account the fact that, as a result of the illegal annexation of Crimea to Russia, the security situation in our region has also deteriorated and presents challenges, and we must actively act in such a way that our own interests are also taken into account in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u304	Madam President! I would also like to express my thanks for the work done in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Administrative and Security Section and the Committee on Finance as a whole. It is quite clear that Finland must assume its global responsibility for development issues, whether it concerns climate policy or helping the poorest in the world in countries in danger of breaking down or in the midst of the acute humanitarian crisis that we have witnessed with regard to Yemen. We are not only doing our part but also increasing our own security when we save lives, eradicate poverty and fight climate change. Development funding is an important part of Finland's foreign policy and international and Nordic profile, but it is important because the needs of the world are crying out. With development cooperation, we will be able to leverage significant amounts of private money in investment to support jobs, business, climate and energy solutions in developing countries. The channelling of these private capital into investment is essential, as there is never enough money in the form of gifts. Mr President! In the budget proposal currently under discussion, state development expenditure is estimated at EUR 989 million and the actual development cooperation is estimated at EUR 584 million. We must recognise that we have not achieved the objective we have committed ourselves to, namely 0.7% of GDP and 0.2% of the weakest countries. An increasing number of developing countries are increasingly in need of traditional development aid, but it is these least developed and fragile countries that are very much dependent on traditional development cooperation. The achievement of this 0.7% target requires a commitment beyond the parliamentary term. I am glad that this autumn, when we have had a debate on development policy, both sides and the middle of the Chamber have become very supportive of the need for a comprehensive joint commitment and a long-term programme that will enable us to achieve our objective. I am also pleased that we have been able to discuss with the Committee on Foreign Affairs how to achieve this objective on the basis of the example calculations made at the Foreign Affairs Office. That is the year 2028, two and a half years away from the government, and that would make us the target. But we know that the sums are enormous and that is why we must have a broad political commitment to this. Our development policy priorities are right from the point of view of today's greatest challenges. We still have a great deal to offer to promote the role of women and girls, to create jobs, to respond to the education crisis and to work on climate change. In addition to money, development policy requires, above all, influencing work. In the future, it is therefore necessary to invest even more in the role of women and girls, in education, in the creation of private sector jobs and in climate work. And in the geographical focus we have Africa even more strongly. I mentioned that women and girls have been at the heart of our development policy for a long time. Finland’s support has promoted — and will continue to contribute at least as strongly — women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights. And when we have Africa in the focus, we need to understand that population growth will not slow down unless more and more African women are allowed to decide on their own prevention. Similarly, education can be said to be a very good means of curbing population growth. Indeed, education is the key when it comes to employment opportunities for young women and men. As a major power of education, Finland also has a great deal to offer to improve the quality of education in the world. With regard to climate work, we need to use development resources to support climate change prevention, but we also need to take action to adapt climate change, because it is these people who are most vulnerable to climate change in these least developed countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u305	Thank you for the introductions, and then we will really go to the debut for a few months. — Start with representatives of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Vice-President Salolainen is here, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u306	Madam President! Indeed, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is not here at the moment, so I would like to say that, for our committee, development cooperation was very much on the agenda. I am not going to repeat the arguments that have been put forward here, for example, by the Minister. It is now only essential that the 2028 target should be nailed down once and for all, otherwise it will go back to being relaxed every year and the target will not be kept. I will not repeat all these details of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. They are carefully weighed, and everyone can read them there. Instead, I would like to raise a few topical questions. Firstly, the fact that Ukraine is currently in a very serious situation. It is even feared that there could be further military clashes as a result of the situation in the Azov Sea. Weapons concentrations have already been relocated to that area. So let me ask you this: in what way have Finland and the European Union now thought that Ukraine could be given stronger support in this situation where it is now? The second topical issue that I am raising concerns the fact that Finnish companies are in serious difficulties in Iran. This is because the United States has re-ordered Iran into a embargo and Finnish companies, although they can trade there in principle, are afraid to trade, because if they do trade, then the United States will make it difficult for them to do so in the United States.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u307	Mr President! At the beginning of his speech, the Foreign Minister stressed the importance of dialogue and the need to seek consensus among Finnish parties on foreign policy policy issues. Although it may seem a little fraceological, it is a very vivid and important, topical principle now and in the future, that we should always try to find a common line, as we have done so far. World politics is taking place, as we all know, at the expense of the dance of big elephants — China, the United States and Russia — that the international system would be more responsible for our security, and the small ones will always be concerned about what happens to us in this dance of big elephants. The question arises as to the role of the European Union in world politics, to which Vice-President Salolainen also referred. We have experienced the EU as a security community, and that is what it is in some sense. I would ask you, Mr Foreign Minister: what is your assessment of the European Union's ability to act properly in foreign and security policy, and what should be done to ensure that it is taken more seriously in world politics than is now being done?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u309	Mr President! We are living in a very uncertain time period internationally, and it seems that, unfortunately, a policy of force has made a return to the international community and multilateral rule-based cooperation, at least these dancing elephants to which the previous speaker referred seem to be of little concern. In many ways, Finland will play an important role in international cooperation next year. In other words, Finland is the President of the Council of Europe, the Presidency is currently under way, and next year Finland will also be the President of the European Union. It is very regrettable that Finland has had to cut in recent years, made the choice that it has cut off international cooperation, in other words the help of UN organisations. It is now important to change the direction so that next year, when we chair these two important organisations, we will also be able to strengthen the financing of multilateral cooperation. I would have liked to have heard whether the ministers are also prepared to support this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u310	Mr President! This network of Finnish diplomatic missions is very important. Not only because Finns receive services and assistance in crisis situations, as happened in this case in Malaysia, where four Finns were imprisoned and then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs contributed to their liberalisation, but they are also needed in order to gain access to the markets of companies. I would have asked you about these two things. Has it ever been examined whether delegations have sufficient resources, for example, to respond quickly enough to a request for assistance? As the Minister himself mentioned in an interview, some 200 Finns a year are arrested or arrested abroad, and there is a need for help, quick help, because without quick action they may be wrongly convicted. And then the second question: do companies receive sufficient support for access to trades and networking in the countries concerned?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u311	Mr President! Perhaps the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence are exemplary in this Parliament that other committees do not share the same national common view as the two. It is worth sticking to, and I agree with the colleague. Two questions, Mr. Secretary of State. The second is that we have been banging our suspenders through history with a high profile of peace-keeping for decades. We can't do that anymore. I look into the eyes and ask: does the Minister also think it would be appropriate to raise the profile of Finland in matters of peace-keeping for a number of reasons, which are very obvious, not only from goodwill but also from our own national perspective? And the second question, Mr Foreign Minister, is that, as we are currently holding peace talks in Sweden, I have not been able to avoid the idea of whether it would not be sensible to unite the Nordic forces in mediation activities and, in the name of our foreign policy, to seek a common Nordic starting point on this very important international political issue and in that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u312	Mr President! As has been mentioned here, we have concerns about a deterioration in the security situation in the future. Of course, the neighbouring regions are important: the stability of the Baltic Sea and the stability of the Barents, the Arctic region, and so must the discussions with Russia continue, which is in Finland's interest. In short: Finland has been a laudably involved in crisis management and, with its own contribution, is trying to confirm that the wave of immigration a few years ago would not happen again. And on development policy: It is also part of foreign policy, and development policy must aim at strengthening its own income base and democratic governance, reducing inequalities and thereby strengthening human rights. It is good that we received this report in the autumn, and it stresses that we should concentrate on just a few important points so that we can see what results will be achieved. Of course, equality between women and girls and then taking education and skills is an important issue. On this basis, it is good to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u313	Madam President! It is good that the network of representations should not be tampered with in a negative way, but, on the contrary, it should be strengthened. It is important that a small country is visible and heard, and few people come all the way here to listen to us if we are not ourselves at some point in our voice. I would also stress that digitalisation should not be considered in this context as an importer of savings but as a complementary service. Digitalisation also involves risks. The latest news today is about the large-scale Chinese espionage at UN level. I would very much like to welcome the idea of a joint Nordic peace effort which Mrs Kanerva flashed in her speech. This should also be widely promoted by the Government, and I hope that a catch will be taken from it. Finally, I would like to remind you that we talk a lot about comprehensive crisis management, but in practice, if you look at the euro, military crisis management is still in a completely different scale with civilian crisis management. We might want to reach out for this streak so we can get more out of it. And lastly, I would stress that international multipolar cooperation and international cooperation are in the interests of a small country. They're worth supporting.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u314	Mr President! Foreign and security policy is one of the most important cornerstones of an independent state. The highest political leadership in Finland, starting with the President, can be warmly commended to the Foreign Minister and the Government for the situation in which Finland is today. We have relations in every direction, and they must continue to be fostered. At the same time, however, we are facing very great challenges. Today, the Council of Europe, Finland as its Presidency, is facing considerable challenges. There is talk of human rights, promotion of democracy and promotion of the rule of law. All of these also face challenges in the latest Member States of the Council of Europe. Finland will be the Presidency of the European Union from the beginning of July next year. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: what are the plans for our Presidency in relation to whether better relations with Russia could be built through the European Union during the Finnish Presidency?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u315	Mr President! Development cooperation is the sector that has been cut most in relative terms in recent years. Finland’s development cooperation is successful, but the results are hampered by major cuts. As such, Finland’s development policy priorities are in order, and good priorities and principles must also be reflected in financing decisions. Now, of course, we have to look ahead. It would be important to have a permanent basis for development policy and a credible plan for raising the level of funding towards 0.7 GDP. I would like to ask the Minister for Development: how do you see that this can best be done? Mr President! NGOs are an important development policy player. It is important that organisations should not be reduced to the service providers of the Ministry alone, but should allow for the participation of a wide range of organisations in development cooperation. The funding of the NGO's influence and global information work is also extremely important for the NGOs. I ask the Minister: has this funding been secured in the coming years?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u316	Mr President! This Christmas is the 70th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights, and in that sense it is perhaps high time to reflect on why human rights may not be so respected around the world at the moment as they should be if you remember why they were originally established. Here we talk very much about China's economic power, but perhaps less about the so-called re-education camps. And when the United States is led by a president who may not be so interested in this field, it seems that, for example, this interest is very limited. We talk very little about the death penalty, we talk very little about wars other than this kind of security-based approach to our situation. The leader of the EU's Fundamental Rights Agency came here and challenged us to talk about human rights in a completely new way so that it would be understandable. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and also the Minister for Development: how does Finland intend to:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u317	Madam President! As Mr Sarkkinen has pointed out here, the cuts in development cooperation have been significant, and this government will be in the history of the fact that, even at a good time, this level has been kept low, it has not been raised much for a few years now, and this year, there has been no increase in the funding of non-governmental organisations. At the same time, when Finnfund is capitalised for EUR 10 million, it would have been fair and fair that even if you did not want to increase the total pot, you would have taken a few million of this Finnfund's money for these organizations, so that they too would feel that their work is valued. Since last year this from 0.389 to 0.41, there is no evidence of it in the support of organizations. I would like to ask: why did this moderation not take place here, although it was possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u318	Madam President! First of all, Finnfundi and the work of the organisations must not be contrasted; they both do good work in the same direction in development cooperation. But my point is that Finland has become a major educational development partner in Mozambique, Ethiopia, Nepal, the Palestinian region, Afghanistan and Myanmar. In these countries, Finland supports programmes aimed at reforming and developing the education sector. The results are based on long-term cooperation with national education authorities and other donors. We are therefore a very desirable partner in the education sector, and now many organisations have raised this issue, including the Church's Foreign Aid, that Finland should further strengthen the role of education as a key theme in our development policy. Moreover, it is quite an old education policy, and that too would certainly be worth new ones. Shall we do this, Minister Estonian?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u319	Mr President! There is now a change in the international system as a whole. The time for uncontrolled globalisation and supranational integration is over. This affects a great many areas. One example of this is the change in attitude towards the UN Convention on Migration in different countries. Last time in Belgium, the government has fallen because of this. In many countries it has been decided that this document will not be supported. I would ask the Foreign Minister: under these circumstances, would it not be wise for the UN General Assembly not to strengthen this agreement as it has now been negotiated, but to try to change it in such a way as, as Mrs Sari Es-sayah has suggested, that the obligation of the various states to accept their citizens who have received negative asylum should be included in this declaration and agreement? Is this not something worth considering now that moods on different sides have changed so much?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u320	Madam President! The strength of Finnish crisis management is estimated to be on the military side of crisis management next year with some 500 people on the move, and there are approximately 120 participants on the civilian side of crisis management. However, as several experienced MPs have said in this Chamber, a new line of action for Finnish crisis management will certainly be needed. Part of the Minister in that point pointed to the fact that there is already a situation where, if some things need to be moved quickly, they will be financed by additional budgets. I understand very well that fragmentation-like operations are in particular on the side of civilian crisis management where a wide range of skills and multi-scale skills are needed. But on the side of military crisis management, I have been somewhat concerned about following this kind of fragmentation, which is only growing. On the military side of crisis management, Foreign Minister, should we go and seek larger entities and, above all, the role of the leadership in the operations in which Finland will participate in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u322	Mr President! Foreign Minister Soini has already mentioned the Finnish Presidency of the EU. It also came in the speeches of a few representatives. It seems that, in fact, all the big things are about to be left behind in our presidency. Even now we know that the decision on the EU financial framework will be there, the solutions relating to immigration. In this context, the issues relating to the development of Africa will be the subject of our Presidency. The environment, climate, ambitious climate policy is there on the agenda, undoubtedly also the development of European defence, trade policy — what is happening with the USA and Europe on the one hand, the USA and China on the other — the defence of the whole multilateral system, as has been said here, then, of course, Brexit, possibly the deficit problems caused by France and Italy, the rule of law issues in Hungary and Poland, and then the situation between Russia and Ukraine that has already been mentioned. In other words, it seems that we have enormous expectations of this presidency, but, of course, it is also a great opportunity. Is that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u323	Mr President! It is good that the joint communication of Team Finland actors and the promotion of practical exports will be developed together with Business Finland. It is precisely to promote exports that we must invest in. Our neighbouring country, Sweden, has always been a little ahead of us here, and I think they have a double occupation to promote exports in the countries where Finland also exports. Today we spoke earlier in the day about the profitability of agriculture, among other things. Exports also offer opportunities: Food is needed in Asia, both in China and Japan. There is demand, there is need, and Finland has the cleanest food in the world. The big companies have already started here, are involved, but the small ones need more access to this export too, the practical help and information. I would like to ask the Minister of Estonia: do you think that the investments made in our export network and in our export know-how in our delegations are sufficient, and how do you think small businesses currently get involved in the joint export promotion?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u324	There are currently seven requests and they will be taken in this order as you have requested. These are Östman, Kulmala, Kiuru, Jaskari, Ala-Nissilah, Multala, Semi. Then the answers of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u325	Madam Speaker! Over the past decades, Finland has supported the Palestinian Authority in a number of ways, including the Palestinian education system and the education sector. The new Palestinian textbooks do not build peace and coexistence with the Israelis but raise young Palestinians to sacrifice themselves to martyrdom, promote hatred and join the jihadist war. In October last year I tabled the first written question on the subject. That didn't lead to any action. In February I tabled another written question. That didn't lead to anything either. But in April, when the Evening Sanomat wrote a broader article on the subject, the U.M. official replied that U.M. will investigate and clarify. It's been eight months. Today, the German Bild magazine has a big article on the same subject. The entry in the report now obliges you to look into it properly. When will Parliament find out about this UM report?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u326	Madam President! The situation in Finland's neighbourhood is changing. The international security situation has also deteriorated from a European perspective over the last few years. I therefore attach great importance to the development of Nordic contacts and cooperation, especially between Finland and Sweden, as a result of changes in the surrounding environment. We already have a good starting point for developing cooperation. We have already started the Finnish Presidency as President of the Council of Europe in November of this year and the Arctic Council Presidency which will continue until May, and the EU Presidency will begin at the end of 2019. These are the kind of presidencies that should be used. In any case, we will be known in the world in the next few years, whether for good or for evil. These presidencies give Finland the opportunity to influence, as well as the obligation to do so, in international cooperation on issues that are important to us. I would also like to stress that we should not miss out on them, but rather invest in them. Like Mr Satose, I ask the Minister: is it really to be invested in these?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u327	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for bringing up the issue of population growth and for your profound understanding of what it is about. Population growth, climate change and refugees are inevitably linked to the big problem package that we have to solve. Minister Soini referred to the PCA agreement. A little background: Finland does not have a return agreement with Iraq. Sweden has that agreement, but Iraq does not respect it. And now, in order to move forward, the EU and Iraq have concluded such a PCA agreement, and the aim is for them to take back their own citizens. So help is good enough, but our own citizens are not good enough to go back. Let me make sure: how has this agreement moved forward, and how do you see that, now that we are setting up an embassy in Baghdad, will it slow down the spirit of the agreement and, in your view, will these matters of return be brought forward in the right direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u328	Madam President! In general, global and international trade has been a very important guarantee of peace and, in a certain way, a guarantee of cooperation or otherwise. It is not easy to argue in other contexts when there is a lot of trade and there is a link. Now that this model of trade, even the model of trade war, has become more widespread and there are so many disputes, it will ultimately be easy to return to the WTO world. And yet there are quite a few worrying aspects, even on the part of the WTO, that its systems are clearly crumbling. I would have asked the worthy ministers: How do you see the WTO situation at the moment? In what situation and how effective is it, and how high are the risks?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u329	Mr President! Finland is indeed the EU Presidency after the European elections. The chairman of the large committee, Mr Satonen, listed a breathtaking number of things that we have on the table, and that is not all. We also know that Brexit can cause market failures. We know that in many European countries there is a reverse gear and the decision-making capacity is weak — by which I mean France, Italy, Britain, Sweden and so on. Now we are already going to have to consult a little Romania from the beginning of the year. Does this budget now provide sufficient resources for this big challenge, and do we in the civil service, when it is very much linked to this EU Presidency in the second half of 2019, have the capacity to do so? This is what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u330	Mr President! We talked earlier about the role of education and training in development cooperation, and it is extremely good that we have something to offer in that sector. However, we have something to offer in it for export. At the moment, export promotion continues with the model in which Business Finland and Ambassadors as Team Finland country leaders play a key role, and we have six experts in the field of education exports, which are included in this budget next year. Nevertheless, there have been some challenges in starting education exports, even though we have regularly dismantled those export barriers in the Ministry of Education during this term of government. I would now like to ask whether this is a good cooperation between the ministries and do you believe that the export of education will continue to accelerate in the next few years?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u331	Madam President! Looking at the world situation at the moment and wondering how much unrest there is, it is evident that there has been an increase in the number of refugees, that soldiers have taken up arms around the world, that there are some type of refugee reaction and also armed conflict on almost every continent. I wondered when Finland was about to have this presidency of the European Union, that what role Finland will play in moving forward with the help of the EU to bring global world peace forward, to reduce inequalities between people and to take care of development aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u332	And then the answers of the ministers. — Minister Soini, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u333	Madam President, thank you! And thank you for the good questions and observations. I shall start with this Ukraine, which was raised by Vice-President Salolainen and which many others referred to. This is a very problematic situation when we speak frankly, including the role of the EU in it. For example, with regard to this group in Normandy, which is trying to move many things forward, the Minsk Treaty and so on, there is a lack of EU representation. There is no High Representative Mogherini there, there is no EU representation there. Who is there, for example, to represent Finland or Poland? I went to Poland yesterday. By the way, Poland is a much better country than its reputation, an excellent country. I must say that 5% economic growth and 6% unemployment would probably be good for everyone else. Every country has problems, even there, but not everything is so dark. And that is what has just been said, that is, what is the EU's influence and also that Ukraine's cause is threatening to be forgotten. Many instability caused by this Ukraine affects all of us. In future, we must ensure that the whole of the EU is represented, not just the large countries. It is good that Germany and France are important, but the whole picture is important. Sanction policy matters, I have to say it. In view of the crisis in the Azov Sea, the basic issue is that Ukraine was illegally admitted to Crimea in 2014. This is what it's all about. This is the situation. But when we look at our own activities, Finland has been active. I'll take peace mediation and peace-keeping. For example, Finland has been actively involved in ISAF operations in Afghanistan since the beginning. Now it has become Resolute Support, and by a very large majority in Parliament we have doubled our meaning in practice there. We are for the stabilisation of Iraq, The Peshmerga troops who took part in the defeat of Isis were trained. We are here in Lebanon. We have sent small representatives, they are small, we have Kosovo, we have Mali, in a few places. Then the cooperation that we do in international organisations: Representative Kanerva is very familiar with what has happened to the OSCE for a reason. Mr Anttila is very familiar with the Council of Europe. These are the ones where we need to be and where we affect. I am taking this Council of Europe, which is now very important, because we now have the question of whether Russia is going to stay or not and what that means. We can't be magicians, but we're doing everything we can. I have called the Swiss President of PACE this week, on Monday, and we are always looking for paths to get discussions and solutions started, because this is a matter of urgency, not only through its economic but also through its operational side. If we think about what we can get from the Council of Europe and the Court of Human Rights, then we will have the citizens of all countries involved in this protection of human rights, and that is important for NGOs, it is important for the legal protection of people, especially in countries where it is not sufficiently secure at national level. This is very important. Then there's the PCA and the refugee case. With Iraq, this is not easy, but it does not help to say that it is not easy. That's why we're always making bilateral tracks. Just as Mr Kiuru said, Sweden does have an agreement, but unfortunately there will be no more than a dozen returns. Now I had bilateral talks with the German Foreign Minister, Mr Maas, who is travelling to Iraq. That is why it is important for us to have a European torque, that they accept them. This is also linked to the immigrant complex that Mr Väyrynen raised. It is probably in the decision at the UN today, and Finland will make its own explanation of vote. It has been very necessary in this Chamber for the real basis of this issue to have been explained, because it has presented a few challenges with the way in which it is done, to put it nicely. Mr President! Then to these others: in my opinion, Mr Niikko took a very important point, requests for help and consular services and these. One thing is, and it is important that we help our citizens when they get in trouble. Here I would like to say that for us as well as for other Finns, we have a lot of good services, such as making a travel declaration. But it'll just get forgotten. When a crisis comes, it becomes a thorn, and then when there is no crisis, then suddenly we have no contact details, people do not report them. You really should do that. We'll do our best when the opportunity comes. We must be active, Finland-Sweden cooperation, multilateral cooperation. And when we look at what we can do with this presidency of the European Union, I am rather optimistic. That was also the question in Poland yesterday: how are you doing now that you have the Arctic and you have the Council of Europe, then you have two elections and then you have the presidency of the European Union? I told you we'd always make it. I do believe that we have a political government on 1 July, but it does not necessarily exist before the European elections. In the meantime, they run it and then we move on. I also think it is very important that we have a joint debate across the government opposition line on what we are doing during the EU Presidency, that it is not the case that if something happens here that this good government does not continue in this composition, which would of course be an accident but as an opportunity, it cannot be broken by our influence going away, but that we have certain things that we are taking forward together. That is why this aspect of foreign and security policy, that aspect of trade policy. Minister Virolainen is certainly talking about development cooperation, but this is the WTO. This rule is in the interests of a small country, because the second option is the use of force and the policy of dictation. These are the options. That is why we must be strongly involved in this multi-lateral system. Mr President! There were many other good questions, such as Mr Östman's. We'll get back to that. I know that Mr Östman is a friend of Israel, and I can say that this government will see to it that the Jewish population in Finland can be better protected. By the way, it has not been secured by any previous government on this scale in financial terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u334	Thank you. Then Minister Virolainen. What do the minutes look like? Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u335	Madam President! I will begin with a question from Mr Salolainen about Iran. This is indeed a very difficult situation. The value of goods exports amounted to EUR 115 million last year. Money traffic's jammed. And this is where the European Union quickly adopted the anti-biotic regulation, and it has now been updated, but in a certain way companies are at risk: which market are they going to choose? Germany, France and the United Kingdom are working on a temporary financial instrument for monetary transactions in euro. That is still the case, and we will, of course, make our decision when it is ready whether or not to go along with it. And, in fact, one sad thing is that the Finnish companies still have claims there. I'm afraid to predict what route they'll take back there, but it's a very difficult situation. Mr Urplainen, on multilateral cooperation and on strengthening the role of UN organisations, I fully agree with you, but I am sure you know that funding will be up to the next government. Mr Sarkkinen, you asked how to get that credible basis to reach 0.7. I'll send you the paper with this billing exercise done. However, I would like to emphasise that this is above all a political commitment. If we can make that happen in this house, then it will be easier to move forward. Mr Biaudet, on human rights: we are always talking about them everywhere. And we have been commended for the fact that Finland also raises its own problems. We also raise the issue of intimate violence, in which sector we share the concern. Mr Laukkanen, NGOs and Finnfundi would in no way be against each other. They both have a role to play. Finnfund is able to leverage funding and achieve very good development results. NGOs have an important role to play, but I would remind you that this level of funding was agreed at the beginning of this parliamentary term and that multi-annual decisions have been taken. If I do not remember correctly, then at the end of February and March, programme support was given to organisations, EUR 206.5 million, for four years. In that case, its funding must be long-term when we want those results to be achieved. Then here many representatives, Paloniemi, Multala, Savola, Niikko, asked about education exports and business cooperation. This budget has invested in education professionals, food professionals and specialist export promotion experts, especially in selected markets where there is a demand for Finnish expertise. This is what Paloniemi asked if there is cooperation when there is demand and interest. Mr Multala also had the same question. We have a joint project with Minister Grahn-Laasonen, which also includes the Finnish National Board of Education and various educational actors. That is what we are trying to do, if I am not quite wrong about others, on 7 February to achieve such a common vision of how to make this business so to speak rock and roll. That there's a lot of work to be done in that area. Then there is the question of Palestine: we have two different initiatives in relation to its teaching material. Finland is involved in being an external actor who conducts a completely impartial analysis. It is funded by Finland, Germany, Ireland, Belgium and Norway. It is expected to be completed in February 2019 so that it is no longer a very long time. The EU has also planned to carry out a comparative study of the materials of Israel and the Palestinian Authority, both educational sectors, because we know that... [Peter Östman's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u336	We will continue the debate, so I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u337	Madam President! I think it is a very good thing that Minister Estonian has been activated in this plan to increase development funding to 0.7% of GDP. And, as you said here, there is probably support for this goal here in the various parties from left to right and probably in the middle. But perhaps now what I would like to hear from the Minister is whether you have a concrete objective of finding such a political agreement before the parliamentary elections, because I think that its common objective should arise before the elections, so that it will then also affect the next government programme. And I would like to hear what the next concrete steps will be, how you intend to proceed here. The second point raised in this debate is the situation in Africa. After all, there are now 1.2 billion people in Africa, half of whom are young people under the age of 25. Every year, 18 million new jobs should be created in sub-Saharan Africa alone, so that young people entering the labour market alone can be employed. And so it can be said that, from a European point of view, the future of Africa is a matter of fate. Indeed, Finland will have a presidency in the EU next year, and it is now clear that there will also be consensus and ideas in the EU to make a common African policy. I would have liked to have asked what is the line Finland represents during the Presidency and, before that, in relation to the African Union and the strategic partnership and cooperation of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u338	Mr President! I would like to offer the Foreign Minister a new opportunity to answer the question of what this would look like with regard to mediation: I am very serious about having a joint Nordic strategy for a significant increase in the profile of mediation, not only in Europe, where, as we really know, we also have a need for mediation, but also, of course, in a wider international context. I would see an important opportunity to act. And I do not think it is so important that it is only Finland alone, which seeks to raise its profile in mediation on the stage, but I say that a joint Nordic strategy would also have the potential to achieve more in the direction of results.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u339	Madam President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs drew attention to our network of embassies and expressed its concern about it. After all, we have a very large number of key embassies in rental premises, and it has been said that it would be both cheaper and more efficient to keep these properties in order. It is a good thing that the Embassy Network is being maintained and even another embassy will be opened next year, in Baghdad. Discussions and contacts with Iraq are intensifying, so it is also important to be there in person, so to speak, when we talk about these issues of asylum. In fact, my question relates to whether the Foreign Affairs Administration has gone through this network of our delegations specifically with regard to own holdings. And should we better define the strategy so that these will be owned in the future? This is, of course, a matter of state resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u340	Mr President! After all, the background to this immigration agreement is that, as migration criticality increased, it was now necessary to make such a response that mass migration should continue. That is why countries such as the United States, Australia, Austria and many others who have made national decisions and already managed to control immigration did not come into this. This is not legally binding, but of course it will have a real impact, and that is what the parliaments of the countries involved will be calling for. And the return agreements are completely separate. In other words, when Finland has failed to achieve this return agreement for Iraq, it will of course increase its attractiveness for illegal immigration. That it is very unfortunate that it has not been achieved. By the way, it was so important for Finland to ‘obliged’that even the Administrative Committee did not make it to vote when other parties were concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u341	Mr President! The moderate contempt of democracy to bring the wrong message from these things here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u344	Mr President! I am not going to go into this provocation, and I would like to thank the Minister for having had a good debate. I would particularly like to thank Minister Estonia for actually bringing this road map to all the parliamentary groups. At least I can promise that the RKP will be involved with those who want to be committed to such a 0.7 road map. I think it would be very important now, before the parliamentary elections, to hear from other parties as well. You also said how important it is that we commit ourselves to an international rule-based system and that we also critically assess our own activities. I would like to ask the State Department about the situation in Afghanistan. The UN refugee organisation, which monitors the rights of refugees and compliance with the agreement, has specifically recommended that no one should be returned to Afghanistan at the moment, that the security situation in Afghanistan is very poor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u345	Mr President! Development cooperation is one way of supporting sustainable development, promoting human rights, equality, reducing poverty and thus also preventing conflicts and refugees. However, more is needed, and policy coherence is essential. It is important that, for example, all Finland’s influence in international fora and the EU is consistent with our development policy objectives. This must be taken into account, for example, when deciding on the rules of international trade. The development impact for poor countries will be taken into account. Take account of international tax structures, how they deal with developing countries, from which more illegal capital flows flow to tax havens and rich countries when development cooperation funds are provided. Account will be taken of diplomacy that promotes sustainable development in all our activities. I would like to ask: how can other administrative sectors be linked to development policy objectives? Then I would like to ask you quickly: how will Finland, as President of the EU, promote development policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u346	Mr President! We Greens have been very sorry that this period has seen such a drastic cut in development cooperation money. Of course, there has now been a good signal that there has been a consensus that the 0.7 objective should be pursued. Unfortunately, we have only gone backwards now, and it is really necessary that we can jointly commit ourselves to it and draw up the road map on how we achieve this objective, because we know that investing in developing countries, especially women, children, school support, is the sustainable way we need. We should also pay more attention in development cooperation to how we act to mitigate climate change, and in development cooperation the climate and our involvement in it should also be one of the priorities. I hope that when
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u347	Madam President! Here the Minister of Estonia said that there is no point in confrontation. Nor am I in favour, nor have I set Finnfund against non-governmental organisations, but rather I see them running side by side. As a member of the KPT, I would never go into this at all. Perhaps I am talking more about this equality and, however, when we have a common vision of this increase in the level and the Minister of Estonia is very committed to raising the level and there has been a lot of debate that, since it is not reflected in this draft budget for NGOs, I am a little annoyed about this, and that is probably not in any way how to say nicely... Sometimes there may be a problem, but this is not where I am building a fight, but I agree with Mr Biaudet's view, and the Christian Democrats are working together on this road map so that this good road map can be drawn up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u348	Madam President! I'm going back to training. My first question was not about education exports, it is, of course, an important issue, but I am talking about this learning crisis and its underlying reasons and solutions, which have now been very much talked about recently. A study completed in August 2018 concluded that Finland would have much to offer in the field of education and suggested strengthening Finland’s international role in the future. In other words, this education and education is a slightly stronger key theme, because it is absolutely essential. The quality of education, as we know, can be influenced, for example, by the training of teachers, by the increase in the number of teachers so that teaching groups can be reduced, and by higher quality teaching materials and the monitoring of learning outcomes. This whole would probably be something that we should really take a closer look at and strengthen this role in education in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u349	Madam President! I would like to return to this situation of trade in Iran, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Viro, has paid a great deal of attention here. There are indeed Finnish companies that are in big trouble, and they do not know what pile of hay they are eating from, Iran's trade or the United States trade. If Iran trade, the United States will put them on a boycott. This is a rather difficult situation. But in this respect I ask about the detail that I saw that these Finnish companies would be able to obtain compensation, compensation, the losses they are losing in this trade. Is this moving in some direction now?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u350	Madam President! I have been able to work in the Committee on Administration for eight years, and I can say that the spirit in the Committee on Administration has only evolved for the better over the years and that the activity has also been involved in the important committee work in Parliament, and thank you for that, too, to colleagues in Parliament in committee. Here earlier, one of the representatives spoke about this joint agenda of the EU Presidency, that in what way could the republic not only be built by the government but by the whole parliament to build such a common Finnish goal, blue and white goals, the EU Presidency. I would like to hear more about this from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development. I would then like to raise this issue of arms exports, which has now been outlined in a new way by the government through these international crises. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, how will the maintenance activities that Finland has committed itself to carrying out in arms export matters with those countries to which the new arms permit will no longer be issued be ensured from Finland's side? And as a final question, my last question
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u351	Madam President! The main objective of development cooperation is the eradication of extreme poverty, the reduction of poverty and inequality and the realisation of human rights. I welcome the fact that we will also invest more in development cooperation in financial terms in the coming year. When this money goes to the right target, it will come back many times over. I also welcome the fact that Parliament grants the Ministry of Foreign Affairs EUR 150,000 of Parliament's so-called allocation reserve for the fight against radicalisation and terrorism, which is aimed at the regions of origin of migration. This work has been carried out since 2016 and has produced excellent results. However, it must be borne in mind that as Finland continues to live as a debt, the level of funding for development cooperation must also be proportionate to the state of Finland's economy. We cannot save the whole world, although I think we might want to save it, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u352	Mr President! Yes, we have wise officials and ministers in Finland, at least in our own opinion, when we have this much-spoken immigration agreement that means nothing at all, but in many European countries it is being rejected outright and in a few other countries it has caused a government crisis and even a government fall. Many parliaments are allowed to vote on it, but certainly not on the part of the Finnish Parliament. And there are concerns in many countries about the impact of its agreement on freedom of the press, among other things. The agreement does not provide a coherent global approach to these immigration issues, not even at EU level. However, Angela Merkel declares that the agreement must also be complied with by those who are not committed to it, an agreement that has no meaning or effect in the opinion of the Finnish Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, please do not feed Parliament such a thick willow. We all understand that it is not this simple. Tell me why it is so important for you and the civil service to get this agreement through. What do you get out of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u353	And now let us give the ministers the answers. Secretary Soini, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u354	Madam President! I'll start with this representative, Mr. Kanerva's mediation. This is a good idea. In fact, we both have, we and Sweden, now this Yemen issue, we have had these discussions on track 1.5 and 2, we have been fasiliated by Koreans and others. This is a very good idea that we put together, like pool, and do it together. This is completely open. But this is a good thing. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, where Mr Biaudet asked me, I met foreign ministers at the NATO conference and received some timely information. However, there in Afghanistan it has been possible to hold elections in which people were really threatening terrorism and other things at the risk of their health and voting. New representatives and a lot of women were actually elected there. The security situation in that country is very uneven. And I do trust the integrity and morals of the Finnish service, i.e. when we make these decisions about returns and others, they are made honestly and morally, and then we have a judicial system for it to be the subject of complaints. On arms exports: Finland is a responsible operator. We have a very specific way of dealing with our arms exports. This will be done by both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, on a case-by-case basis, to consider these matters. But Finland is also such an operator that once it has made and committed itself to, for example, this service, then we will also stick to these commitments. And I think it's important. For example, for Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, the situation is that there will be no new trades, but maintenance and spare parts are still going. And for a long time we have not sold products that have represented a bit of direct lethal force, but more protective steel and other types of steel. Today, this immigrant company is going to have its culmination in New York, and that matter has been brought to an end. In other words, in the international community, in the UN General Assembly, this will come to an end, and there each government will decide how the countries will operate there. There has been so much misinformation here that it will not be right in this minute or two, but, Mr Mäkelä, I get nothing out of it but a good mind, because I do my job as well as I know how and do not fear anyone and do not submit to any kind of pressure or to the dissemination of false information. I've never done that before.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u355	Madam President! For Mr Urpinen, on these concrete steps towards achieving the 0.7 objective: I do not believe that the parliamentary working party is right to do so, but that the educational work must continue with the leadership of the various parties. Our ministry officials have announced that they are ready to open those calculations. I also believe in the word — as has come from the RKP and the KD today, and from the Greens — that they are committed to making this road map, and I am confident that in this political system we are usually used to the fact that when something is agreed it is also kept. Mr Sarkkinen, you stressed the importance of policy coherence. That is indeed important, and when you were concerned about the commitment of other administrative sectors to these sustainable development objectives, I think it will go through this budgeting for sustainable development. It may be the first step, but it will also be when you always see your own actions as being sure to achieve those Agenda 2030 objectives. Mr Paloniemi, I may have responded a little vaguely earlier, namely that solutions to the learning crisis are specifically sought through this joint project of ours, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education, the National Board of Education and the various stakeholders are involved, and a person with an ambassador background has also been included as project leader. So that's what's coming out of it. One more concrete question from Mrs Salolas about this compensation. I've never been to a table that we've been discussing. I do not know whether it relates to this temporary, temporary financing mechanism and whether it would be an option. But, above all, they are their own decisions, whether to stay on the market or not. And we already have examples that, for example, the Total oil company in France has already packed its equipment there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u356	The general debate and the section debate will be suspended and will then be resumed at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u357	We will now resume the debate on item 2.9, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. This is Section 24 of the State Department. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u358	Yes, it seems that I have also asked to speak, let us do so now that I have asked for one. I was talking here earlier about education exports, and the Minister replied at the time that education exports are also being promoted in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administration. They currently have six experts in the budget, I think, who, together with the Ministry of Education and Culture, are trying to speed up education exports, which is an extremely fine thing. I myself took a national defence course in early autumn, and there I became much more civilized also as regards how important our network of representatives is to us in the world. This will provide us with constant information on what is happening in different countries and, on the other hand, we will be able to export our own messages abroad. After all, now Business Finland has also started to strengthen its operations through these country leaders, and through this we will also be able to speed up and help the Finnish export industry. It is a good job and it should continue in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u359	Mr President! I would like to touch briefly on the point raised by Mr Multala that six more experts have been sent to the world to deal specifically with education issues in our international network this year, in the past year. There has been such a problem here that Finland has had, for example, we have Unesco Board seats, different positions of trust in the World Bank, but we have not really had a very coherent view of what message we are delivering. And now that we have specifically designated people specialising in education, research, science through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I hope it will confirm that it is not just a matter of education exports, but of a significant increase in the educational impact of Finnish education. The fact that Finland is trying to be a leading educational country means that we also have a duty to the world, which is considerably wider than an export-enhanced perspective. This has therefore been a fine addition and an opening from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and hopefully we will continue in this direction, but also so that this work will then be directed very consistently and taken forward by such a unified story of Finnish education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u360	Mr President! I would also like to say a word about this Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administrative sector, specifically as regards the promotion of exports and investment. It has been very important that Finland's growth has been supported, precisely these economic relations and the participation of Finnish companies in international trade. This has been activated, for example, by Team Finland operators, and it is precisely this that when Finpro and Tekes have been combined into one operator, it has been possible to support the export efforts of companies. Of course, when there have been challenges in this international context — those of our traditional export countries have been, so to speak, a little more closed — we have had to seek new trading partners. We have then had to cooperate actively with the state administration. This has actually been a good thing for us to put in place those who work for us. Of course, what is important in terms of external relations is that, as a member of the Committee on Defence, I would like to make it clear that money will continue to be spent on the maintenance of Finnish crisis management forces. We are a well-known global peacekeeper. Although Finland’s operations have decreased in the world, we are still considered professional, top professionals in crisis management, and our trainers are interested in how they are able to pass on their expertise to crisis management forces in other countries. Civilian crisis management is also important, and both sides, including the military side, stress the growing need for women in these forces. This is also the will of the Finnish Defence Forces, but it is a challenge to have enough departures. We do not get enough women, but we do not get enough men at the moment, because the Defence Forces are still short of funds, and when people are needed for ordinary military training, it is also a challenge to find enough applicants to be peacekeepers. This is a challenge that we will have to resolve next season. Although military posts are being increased by a hundred now for next year, it is by no means sufficient for both tasks to be carried out in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u361	Presentation of Section 31 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The conversation is about to begin. — Mr Eestilä, on a point of order, Mr Berner will then take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u362	Madam President! The Ministry of Transport and Communications has a budget of around EUR 2.9 billion, about half of which is spent on the maintenance and development of the transport network and just under one-fifth on communications services and networks. The draft budget also includes measures to implement the national energy and climate strategy. These include EUR 6 million in aid for the purchase of electric cars and conversions to gas and ethanol and an increase of EUR 2 million in the purchase of train services. The promotion programme for walking and cycling will also be continued and a total of EUR 7 million will be allocated to it. Mr President! Around EUR 1.04 billion is proposed for basic infrastructure management, of which EUR 569 million is to be used for road maintenance, EUR 364 million for track management and EUR 104 million for waterways. When the use of the additional budget funding that has just entered into force largely falls to the next year, the financing of basic transport infrastructure management will in practice amount to around EUR 1.09 billion. However, the level of funding will be around EUR 300 million lower than the current year, as the three-year corrective debt programme and the additional financing associated with it will end. The Finnish transport network is estimated to have a debt of EUR 2.5 billion. The growth of the correction debt at around EUR 100 million per year was brought to a halt with additional funding, but if the financing level continues to remain at the 2019 level, the amount of the correction debt is expected to increase rapidly. The committee believes that the government must be prepared to assess the financing needs of basic infrastructure management already in the 2019 amending budget, and it is also necessary that the next government programme and the budgetary plan ensure adequate funding of basic infrastructure management. The lighting will increase the funding of basic bus maintenance by EUR 25.3 million, with a total of approximately EUR 1.1 billion available for basic bus maintenance next year. Project cost estimates range from EUR 50000 to EUR 5.75 million. The committee also draws attention to the condition of the network, which is affected by a correction debt of around EUR 1 billion. Among other things, the safety equipment systems are in many respects old and at the end of their life cycle, which is likely to slow down traffic and increase delays in train traffic. The committee is also pressing for improvements in the safety of level crossings, as there are still nearly 2000 unguarded level crossings on the state network. The Committee welcomes the adoption in November by the Ministry of Transport and Communications of a regulation on the main roads and railways and their level of service. According to the regulation, all regional centres are covered by the national road and rail main route, which is maintained in good condition throughout the year. State aid for the maintenance and improvement of private roads is proposed to be increased by EUR 4 million, resulting in an increase to EUR 17 million. Mr President! The Committee attaches great importance to the development of rail links in order to reduce emissions from transport, among other things, and, in addition to the development needs of Turku and the main railway line, also stresses the importance of the east track, i.e. high-speed lines to Eastern Finland, in order to improve both regional development and rail connections to Russia. The Committee also considers it necessary to develop and find new models for financing infrastructure projects, since state budget funding is not sufficient for all those development projects that are justified, inter alia, in terms of traffic flow, business transport and employment. With regard to new development projects, the Committee stresses the effectiveness of the transport chains used by industry and industry. The committee particularly raises the issue of electrification of the Ylivieska-Iisalmi track. The track serves heavy traffic, and its use is expected to continue to grow due, among other things, to transport in the forest and mining industries. The committee also draws attention to the adequacy of the funding provided by the Cybersecurity Centre. So far the resources have not been sufficient, but the draft budget now includes an increase of EUR 2 million under the spending limits decision. Around EUR 89 million is proposed for the purchase and development of public transport services, which corresponds to the level of previous years. This appropriation is mainly intended to cover the purchase of rail transport, the purchase of regional and local transport and public transport support for large and medium-sized urban areas. Mr President! According to the study, broadband availability extends to around 83,000 households, while the project aimed to extend broadband to 130000 households. The projects have progressed more slowly than anticipated. The Committee considers it important that in the future the possibilities of supporting broadband projects which have been faced with excessive financial difficulties are further explored. Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister, the members of the section and the members of the Parliamentary Transport Group for their good cooperation and also for the fact that the importance of transport today is seen not only as mobility but also as a driving force for economic investment. In other words, transport plays a major role in how Finland lies and lives in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u363	Minister Berner, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u364	Madam Speaker! The total budget proposed by the Ministry of Transport and Communications amounts to approximately EUR 2.9 billion, of which the majority, or 1.6 billion, is devoted to the maintenance and development of corridors. The objective of basic bus maintenance is to maintain the state’s transport infrastructure assets in the condition to be operated. This is important both for the daily movement of citizens and for the needs of the business community. Funding for basic transport infrastructure management will be just over EUR 1 billion next year. Although key project funding under the Government Programme will thus end in the election year, in 2019 the sum will amount to EUR 100 million of the funding allocated to the reduction of the correction debt. During the current government term, a record amount of appropriations has been used to finance the correction debt, totalling almost EUR 1 billion. This funding has halted and even reduced the increase in the debt to repair. The targets of the corrective debt programme were selected in the expert procedure on the basis of a customer survey. Thus, the selected destinations have the best impact in terms of transport needs in the business world and the smooth operation of commuting. However, without decisive action by the future government, debt threatens to return to growth in the coming years. The 2019 budget also includes additional funding agreed in the budget debate. Together with the increases decided on in the second amending budget of the current year, this is an important contribution to rail networks and safety. This package of EUR 65 million will be allocated, inter alia, for the following purposes: good EUR 16 million for bridge repair; approximately EUR 3 million for road safety work, for which a total of EUR 9.1 million is available; EUR 25 million for improvements in winter maintenance on roads and the maintenance of the log; EUR 10 million for the safety of level crossings; and EUR 4 million for the maintenance of private roads. In its own report, the committee has proposed to add more than EUR 25 million to the article for basic improvement projects in all parts of the country. I would like to thank the committee warmly for these additions. Mr President! The committee's report drew attention to the condition of the network and the development of rail links. The appropriations decided in previous years are in progress for a number of major basic rail improvement projects. The budget also includes an increase of EUR 1 million in project planning for the main line. The scarcity of funding for major infrastructure projects in transport has been a subject of debate for a long time. We are trying to find the new models that the committee would like to see, one of which could be a project company of different parties. The long-term planning of projects will be improved by a 12-year national transport system plan. Its preparation is about to begin in the Ministry. For the first time, the actual budget also includes an appropriation to promote walking and cycling. In the second budget for 2018, an appropriation of EUR 3.5 million was allocated to infrastructure projects promoting the walking and cycling of municipalities, and the same amount is also available in the 2019 budget. A total of EUR 65.5 million will be spent on purchasing public transport services in 2019. Around EUR 32 million will be allocated to rail transport purchases. A good EUR 32 million is also spent on the purchase of basic rural public transport and regional transport. Support for the development of public transport in accordance with the MAL Agreement or other committed urban areas amounts to around EUR 21 million. Next year's budget will promote national climate policy objectives by supporting rail transport purchases and developing public transport in large cities. The latter aims in particular at promoting the digitalisation of transport and new services. A total of EUR 5.5 million has been earmarked for these measures, of which EUR 3.5 million will be spent on public transport and EUR 2 million on rail transport. Mr President! Here are the key issues from the administrative sector and section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. With regard to the effectiveness of the appropriations, the Ministry of Transport and Communications is much more significant as this section of almost EUR 3 billion creates conditions for action for society as a whole. This is the last budget of the government, which will continue on the same forward-looking path as in previous years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u365	Let's open a conversation. I would ask those who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button. — — — — Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u366	Mr President! This government has done a lot of good work in its time, and a lot of good work has been done, but of course there is something to fix. [of the Group of the European People's Party :Integs! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u367	Madam President! I hope that this government and the beginning of next year will be remembered in particular for the funding of basic bus maintenance, in which this government showed exemplaryness. As was heard in that minister’s speech, almost EUR 1 billion was allocated to basic bus maintenance, and it is a blood vessel in Finland that allows all regions and regions to develop on transport routes. Another big and important issue was the joint vision of 12 years of investment and investment plan by the parliamentary group. I hope that, during this term of government, it will be possible to present it as a basis for future government terms. The working group worked well together and reached parliamentary agreement. In other matters this week, it has also been said that only parliamentaryly agreed matters have the opportunity to go beyond the term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u368	Madam President! During this parliamentary term, the Government has made an exemplary contribution to bus maintenance and, as we heard, nearly EUR 1 billion to various types of projects. It is, of course, a pity that we did not get the 300 million that was recommended by the parliamentary transport system working group for the coming year, but there is therefore a great deal to be done in that regard. Let's hope it gets better funding. However, it is a good thing that the Minister has made a good proposal and that the Committee on Finance and Transport has processed it. However, a small amount of money has been made available for basic improvement projects, and projects are progressing, and in this respect the work on the roads will continue. The recommendation of the Parliamentary Transport System Group should be taken into account in the future. That is what we really hope and are prepared to work for. I'd like to ask you a few more details. The Cyber Security Centre and its financing: I believe that it would need even more money than the 2 million that was just added here. And how can we further promote these broadband projects,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u369	Madam President! With reference to this previous speech, of course, it would have been desirable for the work to have now been carried out with regard to the parliamentary decision on this basic infrastructure management, the cost figure to have been realised. After all, now the debt to repair is going to grow again in 2019, which is saddened by the fact that, although large sums of money have been invested in basic infrastructure management — about a billion people are talking about — in fact, the investment debt has accumulated from one to one-and-a-half billion in relation to previous governments. The overall importance of transport in this budget is falling. However, well-functioning fairways are the guarantor of our Finland's functionality and vitality, and therefore the condition of the routes and their functionality also affect many. I would like to ask the Minister: how did this happen that the parliamentary money for basic bus maintenance was exhausted from next year's budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u370	Madam President! The Committee on Finance has distributed the so-called Christmas money, of which the biggest increases in appropriations came in order to reduce the correction debt on transport routes. This is, of course, a good thing. If road projects are hit on the map, it looks as if a shotgun had been fired. Unfortunately, no shotgun hit my own municipality of residence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u373	Mr President! We know that reducing emissions from transport is the key to curbing climate change. That is why we must make a major effort to increase rail transport, and the fact that rail transport will become competitive in relation to both passenger cars and domestic air transport is an important objective. It is extremely good that we should be able to speed up our train connections between cities. In particular, I would like to raise the issue here of the east track. If we could get a three-hour train connection in the direction of Joensuu, Kuopio, that would be a real alternative to flying. There is also a need to improve the connections within the city. For example, tram projects in large cities are something worth investing in. They significantly reduce emissions from commuting. And I am also pleased that the promotion programme for walking and cycling will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u374	Madam President! It was gratifying to hear both the President-in-Office's speech and the Minister, who also put rail transport repair projects at the heart of the debate. Now, however, I would like to ask about the fact that we often, when we are consumers, always complained about VR and VR's activities, that there was another VR delay and VR that and VR this. However, we know that very much of the delay in traffic is due to the old-fashioned nature and inability of the safety and steering equipment. I would like to ask the Minister whether it would still be possible to coordinate, even during this term of government, where the necessary money is being allocated, especially when we are in a position to promote the smooth operation of the main rail transport sector and when TEN-T funding is coming. Could we still get help from there for this pain and grief?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u375	Mr President! In addition to real repairs, the transport sector has a real way of doing things during this parliamentary term. Indeed, major reforms have been set in motion. There may be something small to fix, but the big picture is very, very good. What we have not achieved enough is funding, and here, quite frankly, I am looking at the officials of the Treasury. It has still not been possible to reform that funding. It deals with operating expenditure and profitable investments in a much similar way. There is not such a small municipality in Finland that it does not distinguish between investment expenditure and operating expenditure. We need new instruments to make use of EU money and pension money so that we can improve the Finnish transport network system. Mr President! Traffic has never been so important in terms of living and trying people as it is today. How do you see, Minister Berner, whether we can get the Treasury to move on these matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u376	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Mr Eestilä, the section president, who has acted in a very balanced and timely manner. There are two things I would like to draw attention to. The main track refers to the Helsinki-Tornio interval, not only Helsinki-Tampere. That's the whole point of development. The second point is that in that report we are taking a position on this electrification of the Ylivieska-Iisalmi track. It is extremely necessary. It has been decided to do so already in 2014, but it has not been implemented. Now that the Helsinki–Oulu range is 200 km/h in 2017, these heavy pellet trains are no longer suitable. It is absolutely essential that, according to this 2016 report, we electrify the Ylivieska-Iisalmi interval in the next parliamentary term and recycle the transport of mining, forestry and pellet through it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u377	Madam President! When you look at fast train connections in other Nordic countries, you talk about very fast connections between Sweden and Norway and Denmark. Fortunately, Finland has also started to talk a lot about these three high-speed rail connections. Now, of course, we need to think about how we can capitalise them as quickly as possible, so that it is not projects of tens of years, but projects of a few years. Of course, we will also have to consider how VR will be divided into different companies and how to get private and public capital on the tracks. At what point and in this situation is the creation of this so-called infrastructure in order to obtain different capital quickly — even though I am, of course, really actively driving this main line?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u378	Mr President! The transport network and its condition are crucial for growth. I agree with those who have emphasised the fact that during this parliamentary term this correction debt has been significantly allocated. The fact that, in this report, the Committee on Finance was not able to allocate any more money to the transport network or to the correction debt as proposed by this parliamentary working group on the transport network is due to the fact that Parliament has adopted the framework in the spring and that the Committee on Finance has no chance of taking such savings decisions in order to make this possible. I therefore think that in this debate we should focus on how we can create a project company, which will then be able to finance these needs in the future. At this rate, it won't get any better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u379	Mr President! It is, of course, regrettable that this 300 million-year-old contribution to this debt reduction ended, i.e. the government collapsed before there was any reason to do so, and another unfortunate thing is that this project company or a similar new financing model for these large projects has not been found. This must be achieved, otherwise this common property, the fairway, will end up in such a state that renovations will cost an excessive amount, accidents will increase and business will suffer, as will people. So it's urgent, and we need to get it on the next government program. I note that I was left alone in the section to defend the Tampere-Jyväskylä twin track. It is unfortunate that this, one of the most important in the country, has been omitted. Furthermore, this broadband project is seriously under way and many municipalities are in distress. I would like to see rapid improvements to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u380	Mr President! Like Mr Ronkainen, I am surprised at the way in which the committee is divided and I ask the Minister how he feels about it. In other words, my own province, Etelä-Savoon, the committee had decided to give half a million euros to improve the Harjunmaa-Lusniemi road, which has been ditched and sanded a few years ago, and there has been no serious problem in this road either. This road is not on the lists of the Ely Centre, the Regional Union or the municipalities, and yet we have reviewed all the common objectives and they are known to all, but there is no specific transport justification for the rapid correction of this road by any official actor;
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u381	Madam President! I would like to thank Minister Berner for the excellent leadership of the two transport groups. That work must have been challenging, knowing us as MPs. There are a lot of good small things in this budget, such as a walking and cycling promotion programme, and it is also very important that we get to 12-year traffic system planning in Finland. I'm sure it's in everyone's best interest. During the work of this working group, the Greens drew attention to the fact that the emission reduction targets for transport are likely to have to be revised again quite quickly. Since then, new information has emerged from the International Climate Panel, for example, and various options have also been presented for the LVM on how to reduce emissions from transport. Of course, some of the policies have already shot these things down, despite the fact that we generally hum about the need to reduce emissions. I would like to ask you, Minister Berner: how do you see the possibility for the LVM to tighten up the next Finnish Government in promoting transport emission reductions from now on?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u382	Madam President! First of all, we must thank the government for investing substantial sums of money in this debt of correction and for catching up with the debt of correction, because everything that has been done and corrected is always on the way. The fact that perhaps there was not so much money for next year is, of course, due to the fact that there has been no money, but it is important that this has been managed. But for this task force. I was wondering whether it would be necessary to bring together our business representatives from all over Finland and a representative of the Ministry and to start making such a long-term plan, how to take care of our transport arrangements — both railways, roads, water transport and air transport — in order to serve our business life as efficiently as possible and these business entrepreneurs would believe in the success and future of their own region, so that tax revenue can be collected through it and those road renovations paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u383	Madam President! Indeed, there are undeniable achievements for the government in the fact that almost one billion have fixed these basic routes, and now that project is about to end. Indeed, in the future it would have to be at least the 300 million, as the parliamentary working group has set itself an objective. But how can we set up a bus company and get funding from outside the budget for our major projects, such as the main track? That is clear, as Mrs Wallin has mentioned here, that until Tornio the main track should be repaired, but that will also make it easier if we can also improve this commuter traffic, i.e. Tampere-Helsinki, and possibly that hour's train. But budget funding alone will not succeed. We also have road projects, highway three and Hämeenkyrö bypass. These are all projects for which there should also be money in the future. In other words, we are calling here for the action of this transport company. However, I would like to ask the Minister about this broadband. How do we really get a functional infrastructure in rural areas, too, to many places? From there the industry is screaming that these communications should be made more workable.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u384	Mr President! The capacity and condition of the main track do not now meet today’s requirements, let alone the future. The best way to remedy the acute situation and solve this issue in a sustainable way is to improve the traffic on the main line and build additional railway capacity for the Tampere-Helsinki section. The budget proposal has a positive budget of EUR 1 million for the planning and preparation of a train in the Helsinki-Tampere area. Planning should be rapidly completed in order to reach the construction stage. There is a need to be open and clear about the different funding options. We must now also make the most of EU funding. Here I would like to ask the Minister's view on these different funding options and how to move forward as quickly as possible in this major rail project that is most effective and important for the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u385	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Berner. During your term of office, you have reformed and developed this transport sector more than any of your predecessors, I dare say. And for that, thank you. For the reduction of the correction debt: It must have been said over the last twenty years that we should start reaching for it, but this period has now been closed by EUR 1 billion, and it is great that the opposition also gives confessions and support to the government. Well, that's a tremendous achievement. Of course we must continue and we must also get money for future budgets in order to manage these. Mr Walli spoke well about electrification of the Ylivieska-Iisalmi track. I hope that it will be a joint project in the future, that we will get it under the ground — it was on the list in the past, but that it will continue. And the attitude of the Committee on Finance shows that more than one third of the allocation reserve was used for transport projects. That tells us that it is important that transport repair needs are taken care of. The Minister has also played an important role in this,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u386	Madam President! We must now remind the member of the Government Party that the parliamentary working group on basic bus maintenance worked and took these decisions during the previous term of the government under Minister Kyllönen, and, of course, thank the current government and the minister for having acted in accordance with the will of this parliamentary working party. And, above all, thanks for the fact that the transport sector and the transport sector have understood the importance of parliamentary planning and joint participation for long-term implementation, so that, despite government periods, it may be possible to influence these project-specific funding or already planning in such a way as to reduce costs. It's definitely positive. Now, in the Transport Networks Working Group, we have just received the framework for 12 years of planning, which is our common will.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u387	Mr President! Mr Kymäläinen himself is right that there have now been three parliamentary groups, one of which was in the last period. Everyone has had their own important meaning, and this is, as it were, a continuum that has been followed up, and this 12-year plan has indeed been brought to the bottom of what is a long-term and sensible decision. In the previous speech, the representative: The Kymäläinen raised the argument that the correction debt is now starting to grow again. However, in previous budget decisions there has been a certain amount of money at the bottom, and now there is another amount in these so-called Christmas gifts, and we are fairly close, I believe, to the point that the debt of correction is not increasing. Is there any truth to this philosophy or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u389	Madam President! The fact is that funding for the fairway needs total reform. In the future, in particular, it will not be possible to carry out major bus projects through normal budget funding if we do not want to continue to take on more debt, and that is something we do not want. This period has been a historic investment in the renovation of our existing basic infrastructure. This has been a good choice, because even in spite of these investments, the debt to repair our transport system is still too high. Now, there are renovation projects throughout Finland through the correction debt programme, and the growth of the correction debt has been stopped. We are concerned, genuinely concerned, about you of all degrees. Private roads must also be maintained. That is why it is good that next year EUR 17 million has been set aside for their corrections, and I personally hope that,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u390	Madam President! I must thank you for the fact that funding has also been made available for roads that might otherwise not have been financed. The Minister must continue to be thanked for having access to the core network, so whenever there is a chance to give thanks for something, we will also be commended. But then, of course, the criticism. Of course, more resources would be needed to buy public transport services. Unfortunately, in the development of rail transport in particular, it seems that the next government will have to invest more in it, because at the moment the situation is that we have unfortunately not seen these Iisalmi-Ylivieska electrifications, nor have we been able to develop the main route,even if there is a need foravailability and Finland’s competitiveness. I would also like to ask the Minister about the Broadband for All project whether there is now any further investment in it. This project period has in a way come to an end, but we do not have that objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u391	Madam President! This programme to combat the government's debt has been very good. As long as there was funding, it did stop the increase in the repair debt, but the sad fact is that now that the money has been spent, yes, but the amount of the repair debt will turn to growth. That is why more funding will be needed in the future, and that is why the previous parliamentary working group on transport systems unanimously stated that this money would be needed at the current level of approximately EUR 300 million per year. That is what we are all committed to in this Parliament, that is what we have been thinking, and I hope that we will be able to move forward in this cooperation. The Coalition Party is at least prepared and interested in finding solutions to bring this 300 million to the budget in the future and to permanently halt and reverse the increase in the debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u392	Mr President! Someone here earlier said that traffic has been revolutionized this season — is that how it went? It can be signed, but has the upheaval always gone for the better, with a number of market failures being caused and taxi traffic being completely confused? To say so much to these broadband projects, although it is good to have a broadband network for sparsely populated areas, it could be a little more rational than ideology and, for example, make the final distribution wireless if it works, instead of drawing that expensive fibre at the bottom of each chimney. Let us remember, however, that there is a level playing field, that is to say, the formula areas depend on commercial links, which are far from always working in an ideal way. With regard to these road network money, I share the disappointment that it will be at least an interim year to reduce the debt. What is the point of setting up working groups if their work does not have any effect? This lack of road maintenance can be seen directly in our provinces in the form of dangerous road connections, such as between the 13 Lappeenranta and Mikkeli highway.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u393	Madam President! Accessibility must be ensured in this change, where jobs and people's places of residence may be separated. It is no longer the same kind of migrant labour market as before, and it would therefore be very important for these main routes to be in order and people to be able to move. And in this connection, the eastern track has already been mentioned for Mr Mikkonen, but the beach track, which goes east from Helsinki, should at the very least be cleared at the same time, because Kotka, Hamina, Loviisa, Porvoo and all the major ports in Finland are located on this coast and their accessibility and the accessibility of commuters must be ensured in this direction – especially when I discovered today that VR has decided to stop operating, i.e. North Transport will stop the express buses. So from now on, when we do not have that train track, we do not have buses either, and this is a rather sad situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u394	Madam President! International competitiveness, regional accessibility, road safety and non-emissions from transport are key issues in transport policy, and that is something we must always remember. This parliamentary term will indeed go down in history by the fact that there has been a greater amount of investment. The debt of correction still exists, but this is a good direction. Next year's about halfway through. Will the new government be able to do something in the future? Time will tell, and hopefully we will go with this parliamentary group. This long-term approach is one of Parliament's first questions, and the 12-year transport system plan does provide a good basis for this overall. I myself have been in three parliamentary working groups and I have seen this move forward. My wish is that Parliament does not put its head in the bush in the future for external and additional funding. This yellow book is not going to be enough to finance, and I believe that it will require a majority state-owned company.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u395	Mr President! Taking care of the basic track is essential. When much has been said about basic bus maintenance, it must be remembered that there are also the tracks that have been derailed in many respects and the trains are late, and this also has an impact on safety. For example, in Uusimaa, the beach track west is one of the most urgently renovated sections. I am also in favour of what Mr Mikkonen and Mr Paatero have said that the tracks east of Helsinki should also be able to quickly design and implement. Mr President! I would also like to ask about the promotion of biogas. What is the current situation with regard to the taxation of biogas cars? Motorists have been a little upset that car taxation has not given much encouragement to make this gas conversion to the car, although it is good that the government has directed its support to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u396	Madam President! I agree with these ideas that the Minister of Transport has put in power in his ministry and that a number of proposals have come from there. Some of those who have not done so have been good, but perhaps then future generations will adopt them. We have a lot of models and information about financial solutions. It's just time for decisions. There is no point in funding any more research groups to base, but there is sufficient understanding. Business needs a clear message so that investments really start and stay in Finland now that it is time for growth. Then these costs, considering that there is a billion-dollar debt: yes, even a profit calculation should be made, that if these projects are started at the fastest pace with different financial solutions to take forward, then it is not a mere process, but it will also become revenue through employment and other investments, i.e. so-called productive investments. It should also be included in this and not be afraid of the debt that comes out of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u397	Madam President! The contributions to the development of the transport infrastructure are slow and gentle movements, and it has been six years since this first corrective debt working group was launched in the Committee on Transport and Communications. It is therefore good that Parliament is also discussing these future development projects. They don't come out of nowhere. Thanks to the Transport Network Correction Debt Working Group, we reached this historic level of 1.4 billion this year. Of course it is for these infrastructure companies, which will then correct these road projects in practice, sad to see that the drop is now 300 million, but here all the parties are committed, and I believe that the next government will immediately introduce its own debt recovery programme. But one question that I would like to raise is that we should consider, in a parliamentary capacity — which I very much appreciate the way in which we work — that the whole of Finland still wants accessibility to be in order. It concerns Northern Finland, Western, Southern and Eastern Finland, and when we achieve it specifically with external funding, it does, in a way, also thank you for the economic upturn.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u398	Madam President! The road network is our vascular system and, unfortunately, transport policy, as many here have shown, has been too tempting. For example, there has not been as much EU funding as Sweden has, and I hope that this 12-year transport plan will help to catch up with other EU funds and move towards a more long-term policy. We also have many needs for rail transport in Lapland. Let us hope that the Kolari track will be electrified, as has the Tornio-Laurila track. It is a small piece and not very expensive, EUR 22 million, which would make it possible to connect with that side of Sweden, both in terms of passenger transport and freight transport. But I would like to thank the Minister for this, so to speak, for the opening of the head during this parliamentary term between Highway 21 and the Kemi-Oulu section of Highway 4. It was not ready yet, but it is good to continue with it during the next term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u399	Madam President! Thank you, indeed, to Minister Berner for a rather vigorous action. There have been many reforms, and at least in the northern part of Finland we are quite satisfied with these solutions. With regard to these railway projects, I would like to make a few comments. Here the committee has raised the issue of electrification of the Ylivieska-Iisalmi track as a very important subject. This cost estimate is about EUR 45 million, and it was already on the list and in the funding, but it did not happen at the time. The importance of this Iisalmi-Ylivieska track has been highlighted by the Äänekoski factory, as the transport of this timber has begun along the Central Finland track. I would like to ask the Minister: what assessment do you have as to when funding might be found for this section of the track?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u400	Mr President! We will face quite a number of challenges here in the transport policy sector in the future. When the emission reduction targets that we are seeking together put pressure on us not only to develop a network between cities and urban areas, but also, of course, to develop rail links within cities, then at the same time we should be able to move in some way towards zero-emission or low-emission transport and, on the other hand, to maintain our road network. To this end, we have now done a great deal of parliamentary work and also work in the Ministry. However, it may now seem that this shift to electric cars in particular has not yet started at that pace, and the government has now made a small incentive to do so. Similarly, efforts have been made to provide financial incentives for the conversion of gas to cars, but, especially with regard to these gas conversions, it seems that perhaps the information has not spread very well. How can this be speeded up even better?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u401	Mr President! Hundreds have cause for rejoicing, and I thank the government for that. At the same time, however, I am very concerned about the financing of transport projects in the future and, in particular, about the financing of investments. We all know — several representatives have been concerned — that funding unfortunately does not remain at the level of the region's potential for development, and that is also a major problem from the point of view of employment and economic growth, not just from the point of view of transport projects. An example of the highway 8: We expect money to improve two major intersections, in Eurajoki and Laitila, but in fact the entire interconnection between Turku and Rauma-Pori should be fourfolded. This is already the aim of the entire industry in the region. Secondly, the hour train is important for both Turku and Tampere, but in order to combat climate change we have to ask ourselves how we can afford not to take advantage of a functioning track.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u402	Madam President! The Jyväskylä-Tampere rail link is central to the accessibility and growth of Central Finland. The operating volumes of the section of the railway are increasing, not least thanks to the Äänekoski bioproduct plant, which, as is known, is being transported to the port of Vuosaari through this route. The track connection is disturbed and congested. In a recent survey by the Finnish Transport Agency, the overall picture of the network shows that the connection of Jyväskylä to the Southern growth corridor is justified in addition to the main railway section between Helsinki and Tampere. The same study states that there is the greatest demand and potential for increased passenger train service and rail traffic travel for the Helsinki-Tampere-Oulu, Helsinki-Turku and Tampere-Jyväskylä sections. The accessibility of Jyväskylä and Central Finland will be significantly improved by developing Tampere and With the aim of making the connection double track between Jyväskylä and Jyväskylä. I hope that this planning can be achieved soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u403	Mr President! When we invest in the Finnish infrastructure, it is a real investment that will certainly pay for itself. We have people from every constituency here, and that is what they expect from us, business and residents expect that accessibility will work, and that is how we can promote exports and the well-being of our inhabitants. In some places we do have the road system in really, really bad shape, and we will have to invest much more in the future, but it is good that this much has been invested in this period. The Pori-Tampere line is an important road for passenger and freight transport, and in order to increase the safety of the section of the line and to shorten the journey time for Pori-Helsinki passenger rail transport, the level crossings of the track should be removed. My question is, how is this project?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u404	Madam President! In the Kingdom of Finland, the road network is a network of blood vessels, through which both forest products, agricultural products and industrial products pass. That is why we need to take good care of it, and I would like to thank the Minister most sincerely for taking that matter seriously and doing well during this term of government. Now that we are living in the winter season, this winter maintenance begins again to talk especially about heavy - duty drivers. Just today, I received one message from the Ass Wall River. There the road was in very slippery condition and lasted for hours before sanding it. The problem is that contracts have been offered for ely centres and then they are subcontracted by contractors and then self-monitored. And it would be important to instruct the Ely Centres now that the Ely Centres play a stronger role in road monitoring.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u405	Mr President! I would have liked representatives of Central Finland and other regions to pay more attention in the future to the fact that the main railway is connected directly to Vantaa Airport. There may not be another international hub in Europe that is directly connected to the rail network so that all traffic can be directed so that people can get to international flights without stopping. We're missing 20 kilometers now. In the same context, consideration should then be given to the continuation of the profitability of Finnair and Finnish air traffic, the construction of the St.Petersburg railway. From there, perhaps 5 million people would come to Helsinki Airport through demand, which would significantly increase work and profitability for Finnish air transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u406	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that the draft budget includes an appropriation to promote walking and cycling. This is very important for people's well-being, and a well-functioning and safe cycling route encourages people to move and thus take care of themselves. This is a very good, positive thing. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that rail transport for eastern and south-eastern Finland is a vital condition for the future of the region, even if it could be said. Forest, bio-industry, research and development, proximity to the border are an opportunity for the region, but it also requires good rail transport and logistics. For this reason, I would like to see the double track Imatra-Lumäki completed as quickly as possible and that the plans for this east rail link are well underway — or have already been speeded up, but that positive decisions should also be taken,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u407	Madam President! The Government Programme includes a record of a vignette, i.e. a road user charge for heavy traffic. I find it wonderful that it is still not in force. It would equalise the cost. . . [Department : Today! ] - That's great. I take it back on this point. It was worth it to come to work today. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u408	Madam President! I must say that, Mr Berner, during this parliamentary term, you have done an extremely good job in implementing road safety and the whole package, as it were, in this whole transport network, so that at times even good ideas have come down too early when they are not adequately planned. So for this, a big thank you for having genuinely looked through the entire ministry's field of work and road safety really ahead. The correction debt has indeed been significantly reduced this period, but it still remains. Unfortunately, it's getting bigger and bigger. If we had a situation where we would have all the roads in Finland just as in tiptop shape, then I would understand that we would get jealous when some piece of road gets paid. So, yes, we have to be really happy with what we've been able to do. I would also like to thank you on this point, Minister, especially for the fact that deregulation, the dismantling of standards, has been a matter of heart for you during this parliamentary term. You've been in charge of that project in the government. It has done a great deal of work for the Finns, and for that a big thank you. To conclude, on road projects, I would say that Arttu Wiskar's Mökkitie is a good song, by the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u409	Olli-Son Parviainen, please. — There is no reservation? Sorry. — Then Mr Hoskonen, please, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u410	Thank you, Mr President. It was really worth it for me to come to work today, too. That's great. Thank you very much, Mr Berner, for the unbiased work he has done. One might say that he has courageously walked into the wind and raised the condition of the roads. That is the way forward and the 300 million that have been agreed in the parliamentary group must be maintained. Just as Mr Ala-Nissila once mentioned in his own speech, it is strange that we still have these investments and the operating economy in the same package. We have to separate these things and get more kick out of this infrastructure construction because it's a necessity. You see, ladies and gentlemen, we have a situation where the use of forest bioeconomy is constantly increasing, heavy traffic is increasing. We must continue to keep these routes in better and better condition, as forest growth is increasing. The opportunities are constantly improving and the use of long-fibre northern pulp and other timber is increasing, creating additional transport needs even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u411	For the Minister, a reply, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u412	Madam President! I would like to thank you representatives for how much we have been able to work together this season, despite all the debate, on how many issues we have been able to discuss and seek solutions to, given that I made a massive proposal on transport infrastructure funding in January 2017, which also gave me very strong feedback from all parties and from the whole Chamber. Today, many of you have pointed out that we need new financing models. We need project companies. We need ways to increase our ability to obtain more EU funding. We need to have the ability to courageously invite others to fund our infrastructure. Over almost two years, we have managed to make enormous progress in this debate. This has only been possible through parliamentary cooperation, dialogue and interaction, and I believe that both of us have gained tremendous insight during this time, perhaps now so far that we can also launch the first project companies and we can also take genuine new solutions forward during the forthcoming government term. It is possible that something can still be achieved during this term of government, structures so that projects can also be genuinely launched. I am also grateful that work has progressed with the Ministry of Finance, that there is more and more consensus and that we need solutions to increase funding for our system. Finland needs more rail transport. We need fast connections between cities. We need better connections in order to increase working areas. We also need more rail transport so that we can combat the climate changes that we need to worry about. To this end, the ministry, with a fair starting point, takes forward the Turku-hour train, the main track not only between Helsinki and Tampere, but we are thinking all the way to Tornio, looking at the east track and also looking at how to speed up the fast connection between St. Petersburg and Helsinki, but also the track in the whole eastern area. This requires reflection on what our infrastructure means not only to our economy in terms of increasing employment areas, but also through the increase in the value of the country, the real estate economy and many other influences. This will enable us to build credible financing models that are of interest to external donors or to the EU or to investment banks. I would also like to trust you all in the fact that what has been agreed in this House is also being taken forward. We now have 100 million at our disposal for the repair debt next season. It is the first four months that this Parliament will still be sitting on. I hope that the next government, building on this parliamentary cooperation, will be able to commit itself to that missing part being resolved next year, and that is where I trust all of you who have committed to this common objective. As far as broadband is concerned, I fully agree with the fact that this infrastructure is essential to us. In practice, this means that we must take care of it with the help of the market, but also by having sufficient social instruments to build it up. It has therefore been important that the Ministry has been very active in spectrum policy. It is not because of me, it is a long history which has existed in the Ministry. We are the first country in Europe to share its 5G frequency with commercial operators, and also the first country to genuinely ensure that commercial operators have the capacity to absorb all of this and also to invest. I don't think our money's gonna be enough. IPCC climate issues are critical to us and bold solutions will be needed in this regard. I would also remind Parliament that Parliament has decided in its medium-term climate policy that transport will be carbon neutral in 2045. We do not yet have agreement and solutions on how to implement it. In this respect, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, with the help of experts, has done the responsible work it should be doing, but it has not made the decisions, but it will leave them for the coming periods, bearing in mind, however, that they must be done and must also be carried out and there are different ways of doing them. We can and must still have a broad debate on these different means before there is any consensus on them. Winter maintenance will be important to us now during this coming winter. It is important to see how our new works models in the areas where they are going to work, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u413	Madam President! It can be said that during this parliamentary term we have seen a partly structural miracle done together in transport. It tells us that when the vision is big enough, the money is usually found, but, on the other hand, when understanding of the need increases, there is also a desire to seek common solutions. I had the opportunity last spring to be in China with President Lohela, where we went several times on these so-called bullet trains. While sitting on that train, we wondered how, in such a short time, China has been able to renew its railways and build a network almost everywhere. Of course we understand that their financial resources are different from ours, but it made us think. Now we are talking about these hour trains, which are not really an hour's trains, but something else, but the idea is that the working areas will expand so that we can move more quickly from one place to another. This reminds me of the fact that we should have a rail transport plan with a radial rail transport plan based on the idea of a bullet train and the like. What could this world become if you could reach Helsinki from Oulu in two and a half hours? From all these regions, we can leave Joensuu and Lappeenranta, and in a few hours all of these places could be reached in the capital region or other large cities. This would revolutionize the world of work. Perhaps this could even be the answer to the fact that, at the moment, we have about 70,000 jobs open, there would then be more applicants. This is, of course, an important large package to think about funding, but I hope that the forthcoming parliamentary transport task force will take the consideration of these high-speed trains as one thing. Then the second point is these important transport projects that are currently being implemented in the capital region. When we know that in just a few decades there will be 500,000 more people coming here, that migration will be so great that it will also require long-term transport solutions that need to be made now, because they will not be built up in a moment. These are the urban tracks, the Jokers and others that are currently being planned here. And then there's one more thing. This is where the airport's rail traffic came up. Yes, I must say that it is amazing that we are unable to reach a decision that the airport, the main airport, which is a huge international airport and which is connected to Asia, will not be able to make these train connections work in the best possible way. I was in Prague and I wondered about the flexibility there is. Continuous bus traffic every few minutes to the nearest metro station, which was built for easy access to all parts of the city. Very flexible and very affordable. The whole day's public transport ticket cost EUR 2. It would've been only a euro for people in their 60s, but I didn't see it coming. I was wondering about that price level there. Yes, I would see that if Finland is not only going to be a settlement centre for these large cities, but if Finland is to be seen as completely inhabited, as much as it is possible, it will then require transport solutions that will enable it. And then industrial investment: if these transport solutions are not clearly written out, then these investments will disappear. Business needs these. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u414	Mr President! First of all — well, now Mr Kopra has come to leave, but I thank him for his spine when he talks about the debt of repair. It is great that we have representatives who, even though they are in the government party, do not stray into the same path from which, unfortunately, the chairman of the committee was blindly trying to prove another. One particular thing that will certainly be the subject of the next term of government and which is already being prepared by this government is that we will have the Virve network renewed so that we will have mobile connections and replace this old technology. And I would now like to say, in my speech, that this will come into the history books, at least that warning that we will not create another and successive Caruna in this country so that there will be one operator who will also be required to be heard and invested, so that Virve can actually reach every authority and be able to belong in every peninsula and soot. Then we will once again give the uncontrollable situation pricing. We are allowing a single player to become a natural monopoly and we are in the kind of crisis that we have seen quite often now, that when a natural monopoly is opened up to an individual company, then the money begins. I would like this government to now have a view that these opportunities will be excluded, because here too the positive aspect is that mobile accessibility will then be better used by citizens. So here's the plus, but let's cover up the big minus, the troll that's connected to the full money, like it was with Caruna. As has been said in many of the speeches here, there is no doubt that we need to open up in terms of funding, about the maintenance of the basic routes and about the repair debt. We do not have a chance if we do not do something completely new in the political direction so that we stop family day care and social security, for example, and do not put money there, but put it all in the right place. But there may be some kind of Transport Infrastructure Oy, which we discussed last season, or the fact that we will have regional investments, but they must also be precise about who will be left with maintenance when that investment is made. And let us not be blind to the fact that companies go along with the fact that they do not want a return on their investment, and in that sense we have to consider how far it is worth, in a way, to go into that rush of higher costs. As far as rail transport is concerned, for example, it would be easier for municipalities and businesses to enter, for example, the Pori-Haapamäki track, because it would be possible to promise companies and municipalities that have joined the project, for example, for a period of 20 years, in which case the incentive would come from the fact that the company would be able to calculate its financial benefits in the future, so that our railway managers would be left with the maintenance of the line. But in these matters, we must dare to see how we finance its future Infra Oy: for example, do we use the assets of Senate properties to capitalise it, so that it is there as collateral when it is lent, although at the moment nothing other than the Finnish State will certainly receive such cheap loan financing. We now have to look in the mirror, as I said in that debate: our safety equipment and steering equipment technology is unhelpably out of date, and then we have to see that we have to invest in it. Of course, access to tracks and overpasses and fast connections must be a priority, but this is a matter that needs to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u415	Mr President! I too share the thanks that have been expressed here today and thank the Government and Minister Berner for finding funding and targeting many important areas. In particular, I would also like to highlight this sum of some one billion in repayments, which has already been very rightly raised here in many speeches and which has been greatly praised. Many new projects have also been launched during this parliamentary term. As an example of new projects in this context, it is good to highlight the very important launch of the Helsinki-Turku inter-hour train project for Uusimaa, south-west Finland and Finland as a whole. The design of the track is progressing with the 40 million budget allocated to it with the desired and planned speed. Hopefully, the time will soon come for construction decisions and construction. I would also like to thank the Committee on Finance, whose allocation reserve was found to finance my budget initiative. Appropriations were allocated to prevent deer accidents on the Turku motorway at a place where deer accidents now occur far too much, the second highest in the whole country. Fortunately, we are now improving this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u416	Mr President! There has indeed been a wide-ranging debate here on the subject of the LVM, and I would like to emphasise precisely what I have just said in the presence of the Minister: deregulation and deregulation. It may not seem that way in the moment, here and now, but it does seem to us all, to the legislators and, above all, to our citizens, quite significantly also through the smoothing of daily life, and that is what Minister Berner has done well in the Council of State. The Minister has not just been asked how there are differences in these ministries, but I believe that there is also a certain difference in performance in them, in so far as not all the ministries have made much progress in that regard. But the work has been done at every ministry. With regard to road safety, this safety package, which is included in this budget, I will also make the level crossing programme particularly important, which will continue to amount to 10 million next year. It is not enough, of course, when we know how many unguarded level crossings we still have, and in that respect the work must be taken forward strongly, and when we think about these level crossings, the level crossings are often also in the area where we hope to increase those train shifts. I will take the example of commuting between Pori-Helsinki and Pori-Tampere to Tampere and beyond, so that along the way, however, there are still some crossings to be repaired, and we would need these train services more and more, so that these strong towns can also grow in such a way that people will be there when they are clearly better able to work. And this security package is essentially accompanied by these already representatives. The question of game management raised by Viljanen. They have now been significantly invested in, and I must say that the Minister actually visited the places where the problem of the white-tailed deer is most affected and where the deer problem is most important — that is, it is said, Pirkanmaa, Northern Hame and also Uusimaa. Yes, they were actually investing in highway 12, highway 9 and also in Vihtimaa. In other words, these are the things in which we get our multiple investments back, because all of us, ladies and gentlemen, are also paying our motor insurance contributions, and when there are traffic accidents, even if there is no life, the tin horses will have to be repaired. In that respect, this will cost society a considerable amount of money back. This is an important investment. Of course, there are many other things that will increase road safety, above all through education, as I said yesterday about the light car.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u417	Mr President! When I did not have the opportunity to comment on this development of the network in that debate, I will do so now. It is quite clear that the main line and the investments in it are the number one and number one for the whole of our rail system. There was a lot of talk about the east track here during the debat. In addition to the eastern track, the project is at least as important as this main track plus, which includes an hour train to three major provincial centres, Pori, Vaasa and Jyväskylä. This project should not be forgotten when it comes to the development of the Finnish network and the large entities in terms of the Finnish economy and its development, and also what the needs of the population through the network are. Now, if I reflect the situation in Central Finland with this in mind, this construction of the Orivesi-Jämsän twin track was mentioned already during the debut. Transports in the Central Finland forest industry, both in Äänekoski and in the Jämsänjokilaakso forest industry, are really dependent on a functioning infrastructure in Satakunta. Ostrobothnia has its own significant industrial clusters. For this reason, the main track plus should not under any circumstances be forgotten, but must be kept and pursued decisively towards the completion of the project until it reaches investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u418	Mr President! In the future, as today, transport networks are of paramount importance for Finland's development. When we keep the transport networks in order, it is certain that Finland will succeed. As an example, when industry started to develop in Central Europe, where did it develop? It developed along rivers, where the transport routes were efficiently managed during that time along the waterways and, by the way, continue to be managed. This is still a very important opportunity for us, which should only be dared to use. The fact that we have spent more than EUR 900 million in this parliamentary term on the Finnish road and rail network to repair care waste is a very good thing. Thank you very much, Mr Berner. He has worked without fear, he has endured criticisms, yet he has pushed through reforms and such major changes in the line of action, which we have just heard in many speeches thank you for. For me, too, warm thanks once again. It is absolutely essential that at least the target set by the parliamentary working group — plus 300 million additional annual contributions to the financing of existing basic infrastructure management from now on — be maintained. Just as necessary is the establishment of an infrastructure company in this country. Whatever it comes to, the wiser will think about it, but in any case the infrastructure company is needed in order to build large-scale transport investments in this country so that it is not directly dependent on budget funding, and it would also enable the use of various innovative financing instruments. That is what is happening in Europe and in the wider world. We must now get into this situation in Finland too, and there is no rocket science. It is also necessary for us to define and maintain hull networks, so that we keep the main blood vessels of the kingdom in good condition and fast to operate. Of course, it includes roads, railways, broadband, but I will therefore highlight these fast information networks and, of course, I will also highlight the waterways. We must remember that Finland is the only country in the European Union with such a large inland route at our disposal, and the waterway makes an exception to all other routes in that it is a completely untapped road. Even though a hundred ships in a row drive along the same route, that route does not pass at all. A few waymarks may have to be renewed, but that's all. That is why these important issues should be put in order, roads, tracks, broadband, and also waterway to develop. I am seeing through my soul the dream situation that Finland would have its own inland waterway route directly to the Gulf of Finland that would connect both Saimaa and Päijänne. The Mäntyharju Canal would be extremely important and the Kymijoki Canal at the same time. It would raise our transport capacity to the very stars, drastically reduce costs and open up incredible opportunities for tourism. It would open up the growth that we have long been looking for and which we are now gradually getting involved in. From the point of view of climate policy, it is important that the car fleet is renewed. Transport depends on whether we have good networks, but it also depends on whether we have good transport equipment, whether we have cars in order, whether we have fast trains, good trains, whether we can build broadband and take advantage of the waterways. As far as the car is concerned, we've gone through giant leaps. Today's cars are very low-emission, we know that, but when there has been a debate in Finland that all these old cars should be scrapped, that is not economically viable and does not make sense either. Think of a ten-year-old car with all the catalytic converters and all the modern equipment. Those ten - year - old cars still have modern tools and they work. There is no point in going to scrap cars like that, because there has been a huge amount of natural resources and wealth, a lot of material, and there are metals and other materials. Of course they should be used to the point where it is no longer economically viable, then scrapped and then bought the economically viable, low-emission car. On the bioeconomy side, it is important to move forward. It's affecting traffic. As Minister Tiilikainen mentioned, if we do not immediately get all the cars renewed, then we should do so in such a way that we are able to bring more bio-dimension into fuels, thereby making use of that renewable energy. We do not necessarily need to quickly renew the car fleet, but let us bring the bio-dimension to the fuel that is an environmental act as such. We have a great chance of doing that. If we wanted to do so ourselves in this country, for example, that all diesel fuels are made in Finland and from our own raw materials, that would be entirely possible, but it is only odd when it is in our thinking that wood, let alone peat, is not to be made of biodiesel.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u419	Mr President! It's okay to take it from here. It is really great that we have exemplary companies here in Finland, such as Neste, where it was an honour to visit that area a short time ago. There already 80% of the profits come from that renewable biodiesel — or they had their own name — and it certainly has a future, at least in heavy traffic, and certainly also in air transport, which is also in the face of considerable pressure that emissions reductions should be made there too. And yet we have jointly stated here, a fairly large majority of the parties believe that, for example, there is no point in introducing air taxes, it is not in Finland's interest. But this type of means can, of course, be used, and it is great that we have pioneering companies in it. However, as I said earlier, we also have very important emission reduction targets for transport, and, of course, there is a great deal more to be done in order to turn the tide. This mixture obligation, which has already been introduced, is certainly one measure, at least a transitional measure, even if it does not necessarily save the whole world. It is very good that very much progress has been made in this debate over the past few years, as the Minister has already said. It may be that some things just require a little discussion before they are adopted, but at least I think it is quite obvious that we need new financing models, we need companies and we need a little new thinking on how our transport network and the necessary rail investments will be financed in the future. And there will certainly also be more competition on the side of transport, so that we can keep those costs low for users as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u420	Mr President! When it comes to transport, we talk about things that at least the undersigned receives by far the most contact from the province. There are many ways to address the challenges of transport, and that is the most important thing about them all. The condition of the fairways, the pits of roads, they are visible in people's everyday lives, and they are the concrete things we are hoped to make improvements here. The amount of the correction debt has been invested in this parliamentary term at around EUR 1 billion. It has put a lot of projects in order. If they speak of their own homeland, then to Alavud, to Soini, to Alajärvi, to Ahtar, to all these things, a new surface of the roads has been made, and the basic cures have been made. These are vital routes, of course, for transporting timber, for transporting agricultural products and so on and, of course, for the everyday movement of people in those provinces. Now that autumn and winter have come and are at hand, winter maintenance will be addressed. I do not know whether this is a particular problem for us in the South and whether the contacts are directed most towards us, but at least there will be a lot of contacts. When the weather is what it is, i.e. when zero sides and other saws the temperature and gutters come, snow sometimes, the roads are slippery and people are concerned about their walking. Sweating is needed, and security must also be improved. The Ely Centre is, of course, the one who takes care of these regionally by tendering the contractors, and they then use their own subcontractors. Very many comments come from this very activity of subcontractors, and these are the ones where the road user’s line of habit is then in the busy use of the citizens. At least I myself have always tried to direct these contacts directly to the Ely Centre, and many times since then improvements have been made to these once the controls have been carried out. It is not a simple matter, but it needs attention and improvement. It is therefore a good thing that the road maintenance classifications have now been reviewed under the direction of the Minister. Mr. Speaker! In fact, I would like to raise in my speech the issue of transversal traffic in Finland, which is too little to be dealt with in this Chamber. We are talking about the main routes, both on the roads and on the railways, but they are too many times forgotten about transversal connections. Highway 18 is one of the main transversal routes. This was a project of its own a few years ago, the Green Corridor project in Central Ostrobothnia, one of which was part of the year 18, and it was Myllymäki—Multia as a correction, which is the only highway connection that has not yet been built in Finland. The traffic link between South Ostrobothnia and Central Finland, i.e. Seinäjoki and Jyväskylä, has not yet been reached, but we must continue to work towards it. What is another important link with cross-border traffic is rail transport. We talk a lot about the main track, its importance, and I do not overlook it at all. They must be in order, because the masses are moving in that respect, but in order to be able to feed traffic onto this main track, so that we can make maximum use of our network, we must also have these transversal tracks in order, of which the Haapamäki line is one of the key elements, and this is again talking through Seinäjoki and Jyväskylä about the connection between Seinäjoki and Tampere, which runs through Haapamäki. The train is an environmentally friendly mode of transport. When it is decided to reduce emissions from transport by 2030, then rail will be at the heart of that. I am very pleased that additional shifts have been made on this Haapamäki track during this parliamentary term, and the number of passengers has also increased, thanks, of course, to the tourism that has come along this track with the development of the Ähtär animal park and the arrival of pandas. During this summer the number of passengers has risen by 63% on the track, which is a very important issue. It must be possible to make better use of the track for pendeling, i.e. working. When there are train shifts, there are users, and when there are users, there will be profitability for that train. In the longer term, the objective must be to electrify this line as well. — Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u421	Mr President! Indeed, the government has indisputable achievements in terms of spending almost a billion dollars on repair debt, on the management of routes. Now it has come to an end to this programme, and indeed, there are no more numbers, even though the parliamentary working group at the time said that 300 million should be. But in any case, it's taken care of. After all, during the previous term of government, the lower-level road network was a waste of time. So I'm glad you've been fixed. There are points in the report of the Committee on Finance in favour of a good justification for starting the highway 3 and Hämeenkyrö bypass in 2019 and implementing it from 2020. According to the committee, the government must be prepared to assess financing needs already in 2019 in the amending budget. Similarly, the Government Programme must ensure adequate funding. And indeed, another important issue is, of course, improving the main track. There's the representative. The newspaper said that there should be a direct connection to the airport, and that is the hour train to Tampere. After all, it should pass through Helsinki Airport, and this would also free up transport capacity for this old main line. That would be important, but now we have to ask how this is financed. With that yellow book, at least it can't be completely funded. Then we need project companies or bus companies, and investors, including pension companies, will be involved. Of course, it's a slow return, but I still think there'll be investors. Mr President! In France, workers and the poor rioted in their yellow vests against the increase in the diesel tax, and diesel was once considered a good substance, now it is said to be a poison. In Finland, on the other hand, the general public wishes to abolish the diesel tax, and it is true that the power tax has pushed its way. The cost of driving is already high, and public transport is not everywhere, and people need to get to work even from the oppressors. In order for our car fleet to be reformed in a low-emission direction, taxation on car ownership should be shifted to the taxation of use, and money should also be redirected back to the management of routes. I also think that the scrapping charge has been too much for better incomes: not everyone can afford a new car. Many people on low incomes could buy a newer used car if they really want lower emissions. There are already threats of banning diesel vehicles in the mainland, but Neste is now developing new biodiesel liquids, and I do think that is why we should not go out and ban diesel entirely as fuel for cars. We can use more renewable biofuels in almost all diesel cars. Consumers must be given more information and not foment and uncertainty. Heavy traffic still needs internal combustion engines for a long time. Of course, electricity, gas and hydrogen will complement the range of energy sources in cars. Moreover, even in Germany after 2014, Euro 6 diesels will not be banned, they will be allowed to enter cities. But I could say that, for the time being, for some time now, those with little money can hardly afford expensive electric and hybrid cars, at least without purchasing aid. Moreover, if the lithium and cobalt reserves are not sufficient for millions of batteries, biogas cars and these gas conversion cars would in many ways be better for the environment. Indeed, today news came that the government is proposing a road tax on heavy lorries. In this way, even foreign trucks are actually paid for the use of roads, and this would be compensated for by Finnish cars, and I think that is a very good thing. As far as the taxi reform is concerned, it is necessary to say that the Act on transport services has freed up competition by abolishing price regulation and the obligation to place places of work, and it has not gone quite as it did in Strömsö, if we are to be honest. That's where I met a taximan at the BBQ at Pizpala. I said, what are you doing here? He said he's come to town to pick up some rides. Orivesi also called to say that the restaurant can no longer get home by taxi at night when they are all waiting in line in Tampere. So we're gonna have to make some sort of repair move on this one. On the other hand, I also wanted to draw attention to the grey economy that might come with this opening-up of competition. Indeed, it has certainly had good intentions, but not everything has gone quite so well, and it is precisely in the cities that all taxis are happy to come. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This was my last full budget speech in my career as a Member of Parliament, unless the government still does before the elections the so-called additional electoral budget. I would like to thank the representatives of both the opposition and the government parties and wish you the best of Christmas!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u422	Thank you and congratulations to Mr Alatalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u423	Mr President! I think that a couple of important projects are something that should also be viewed from an economic point of view. In time, the Czar wanted the line between St. Petersburg and Helsinki to be moved so far off the coast that the ship cannon would not carry it on the track, which was then placed through Riihimäki and Kouvola. Today, there is no need for that anymore. Instead, there is a need to bring the air traffic of St.Petersburg and Helsinki Airport in such harmony that Finland's air traffic will receive significant additional demand from the St.Petersburg region. If the St.Petersburg railway from Vantaa is set to run, as it seems reasonable, it would pass through Porvoo and Kotka, which would also make this coastal area of Eastern Finland an effective connection with the capital. In my opinion, this is in Finland's interest. Anyone who leaves St.Petersburg on this track almost always buys a connection to Europe from Vantaa as well as Asia quite often. This means an income of between EUR 500 and EUR 1000 per passenger for Finland in one way or another. It is profitable, it would be so profitable that the repayment period is certainly less than 10 years, which in transport investments is a good performance. On the other hand, perhaps more interesting for the public is the tunnel from Helsinki to Tallinn. 15 billion is certainly technically possible, but is it economically feasible? The tunnel has long been between Paris, Brussels and London, and has probably gone bankrupt three times. The tunnel is not the one we need here between Helsinki and Tallinna. The Helsinki-Tallinn exchange was also on-line with the helicopter,it took 20minutes,between hours,14persons,the price of the current currency may besomeone between EUR600 and EUR700. There are also customers who wanted to trade two and a half hours of shipping for this. Either they were afraid of flying, or they wanted to enjoy the boat ride. There are more than two million passengers on board each year between Helsinki and Tallinna. It is the busiest shipping connection in Finland, it already wins Helsinki–Stockholm. People who go by boat may not see it as a journey except that it's nice to be there — we'll be there when we get to the boat: we'll enjoy the food, we'll buy souvenirs, which can be seen in the incoming equipment when they come out of the ship. But if we assume that half the two million would then take the train in the tunnel, how much could we charge for it? If the investment is 15 billion, possibly more, the equation is impossible. The fact that two projects are being considered in this same area in Finland shows that transport plans and profitability calculations have apparently not been carried out at all. It is quite easy to make profitability calculations in transport plans, because traffic studies show the volume, quality and timetable of freight flows, which is why traffic investments in Finland have been made on this basis of profitability and necessity. Finland needs different modes of transport. It cannot be assumed that public transport covers everything that is needed to travel in Finland. We need bicycles here, we need cars here, we need buses here, and each of these means of transport has its own area of strength. Anyone in Finland who can do without a passenger car will probably have to live in the centre of Helsinki or in an equivalent position where he does not need a car, he probably does not have children who do hockey or have children who go to ballet class to carry. The likely situation is that diesel cars and petrol cars are gradually turning into electric cars or hydrogen cars. The characteristic of hydrogen is that it can be made with wind power and the power of the wind can be stored in hydrogen. Old equipment can be modified into hydrogen, and it is actually the first option in addition to charging the battery, which of course requires an electric car again, where wind power can reasonably be stored. Helsinki is interesting. Helsinki assumes that it can decide on its own how narrow and crowded it is to travel here, but at national level it is a bad thing if customers cannot come to Helsinki within a reasonable time and get away from here within a reasonable time. This is a national interest; it is not just a matter of Helsinki: if traffic congestion charges are still planned there, it will put a burden on the whole economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u424	Mr President! A parliamentary working group was set up for the evaluation of the financing of the transport network, which submitted its final report in spring 2017. Parliament's parties agreed that the transport network should be developed in a long-term and systematic manner and that the road repair debt must be tackled. I am pleased that major transport policy guidelines can be drawn up together. A well-functioning transport infrastructure is essential and the needs of the labour and business sectors must be taken into account. However, it is not self-evident that the parliamentary parties will find common ground — the parliamentary working group on business subsidies will serve as an example. However, the principle of parliamentary decision-making is undermined by the fact that the government did not have the resources to provide the outcome of the joint negotiation in the budget for next year. It seems that the work of the task force is going to be wasted. I absolutely believe that the EUR 300 million proposed by the group should have been raised in order to offset the debt of correction next year. About a week ago, another parliamentary working party gave its unanimous report. It decided to draw up a 12-year plan for our transport network. This is an extremely good thing that such joint, long-term plans are made and, when they are made parliamentaryly and decided unanimously, they naturally have their own weight. However, the question now arises: When the decisions of the first Transport Network Group are watered down, what will be the weight of this implementation of the 12-year plan of the latter working group? What is the future and the weight? Mr President! Measures to combat climate change have been highlighted in the Government's actions over the past few years. The Ministry of Transport and Communications published the views of its own climate policy expert group on how to reduce transport emissions and carbon neutrality by 2045. Its implementation would require an unprecedented renewal of the Finnish passenger car fleet with alternative drivers. At the moment, there are some 2.7 million petrol or diesel vehicles on our road. The taxation of these fossil-fuelled cars would increase considerably in the future. Indeed, even stopping petrol and diesel cars has been flashed in the wildest scenarios for the future. The government has tons of idealism, but it lacks realism. Finland is a country of long distances. Much of Finland is still outside large-scale public transport. A passenger car is a lifeline for many, and it is difficult to understand how to discipline motorists. Emissions from passenger car transport account for only about 9% of Finland's total CO2 emissions. A small nation’s focus on very marginal emissions threatens to go with the baby’s bath water. Therefore, in the future, I hope to be patient in an overly far-reaching climate drive. Electricity seems to be the one that will solve almost everything in the future, even in traffic. However, if you heat your house with electricity, it is a very bad thing, it should be done with either ground heat or air heat, but if you drive an electric car, you will save the world. I would be grateful if someone could tell me what the difference is between these electricity and heating and power.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u425	Mr President! To meet the objectives of international climate agreements, Finland needs a significant reduction in emissions by 2030. The world’s leading climate scientists have warned that global warming is about to break out of control irrevocably. The melting of ice, the warming of the sea and changes in ocean flows will further contribute to warming. According to climate researchers, a key means of preventing otherwise inevitable development is a drastic reduction in the use of fossil fuels. Consumers are deeply concerned about how the global climate is changing and want to contribute to worrying developments by reducing their own emissions. For many consumers today, electric and hybrid cars, which are considered climate-friendly, are too expensive, but the purchase of a biogas-powered car is a very cheap eco-act. The government also supports the conversion of liquid fuel cars into gas cars. Nevertheless, owners of low-emission gas cars are penalised by a high power tax, which is significantly higher than the car tax on cars using petrol as fuel, as propulsion. The power tax on gas cars must be reduced rapidly so that it is substantially closer to the level of the car tax. The aim must be to eliminate the power tax on biogas cars altogether. The government must also act to promote the use of biogas in such a way that more and more consumers choose biogas instead of natural gas. At present, fossil natural gas is cheaper than renewable biogas. Mr President! Government parties have distributed the Christmas gift money for transport to road projects. In my opinion, this additional pot of over EUR 25 million has been distributed unequally on a regional level. Only one project has been funded in Uusimaa: a fence between Vihti and Kirkkonummi on the Turku-Helsinki motorway.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u428	Mr President! During this government, very important transport projects have been carried forward. This must be demonstrated by the fact that in November 2017, the Ministry of Transport and Communications received an international award for its merits as a promoter of progressive transport policy and legislation. During this government, some EUR 3 billion of money has been invested in the transport and telecommunications routes, and it can be seen in the road. In particular, this EUR 10 million increase in the level of state subsidies for private roads has been quite good, it has been shown by the lower road network and it has been an essential sum for forestry timber management in order to mobilise wood for the forestry industry. With regard to next year's budget, it has been possible to get more out of the small, more modest budget here on the road safety side. More than EUR 20 million is coming for winter maintenance, which is important. From the field I have received feedback that especially winter maintenance and maintenance of the snowbreaker's road has been a little weaker, and now that this kind of precision strike comes, which is very good especially on those gravel stalks. Projects related to the elimination of level crossings and railway safety are also very important. Where there are no booms along the track, these will make the crossing of the tracks safer than it has been so far. Furthermore, I think it is very good, as the Minister has also pointed out in his own speech, that there are EUR 3.5 million for walking and cycling on the fairway. On the other hand, it increases the well-being of citizens, such as self-movement, when there are good routes and fairways through which you can move, and on the other hand it is also a public health issue. Thirdly, I would like to highlight this railway project, which runs from Ylivieska to Iisal. This line has been electrifying for a long time, and especially with the Äänekoski bioproduct plant, wood maintenance at the plant has considerably increased the use of this track. That line is practically full and, fortunately, the committee has now taken a strong position that this electrification should be achieved, because transport is then out of the main line. It is very important to secure the timber supply of the Äänekoski factory and, first of all, to get this Ylivieska-Iisalmi track and then the Central Finland track in a better condition, it will be able to manage this industrial wood supply along that line.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u429	Mr President! A well-functioning and well-functioning transport and telecommunications connection is absolutely essential for the balanced development of the country. The last few years have at the latest shown that funding for the fairway needs reform. In the future, in particular, major bus projects will not be possible with normal budget funding, and I sincerely hope that all parties will find a solution to this issue by consensus. This period has been a historic investment in the renovation of our existing basic infrastructure. It is a very good choice of lines, because the debt to repair our transport infrastructure is still far too high and the budget of the parliamentary working party of EUR 300 million must also be available in the coming years. Now these debt relief funds have been used to provide renovation projects all over Finland, and that is a good thing. We in the centre are genuinely concerned about you of all degrees in Finland. Thank you to the Committee on Finance for that EUR 25 million increase in basic bus maintenance, which will provide improvements, a total of 45 road projects, for rehabilitation across our country, especially in the whole of Finland. There is, among other things, a very good thing close to my own region, Ylämaantie, 800,000, but Uppermaantie needs additional funding of EUR 1 million to restore the entire section of the road. Also highway 13, in particular Savitaipale-Myttiömäki, for renovation. It is a bigger project, about EUR 8 million, and I sincerely hope that the money will still be found during this parliamentary term and that the road will be restored. Private roads must also be maintained. That is why it is good that next year there will be EUR 17 million in their corrections, and that level will also have to be regarded as existing in the coming years. The private roads are the capillary in the Finnish road network. When it comes to developing rail links, it is also very important, alongside the development needs of the Turku hour train and the so-called main line, to bring the eastern line to the same line as the previous routes. It is important not only for regional development but also for transport to Russia. Air transport must also be secured at long distances in Finland. It is good that euros have also been set aside to support the operations of airports outside Finavia. This is why, for example, Lappeenranta Airport still needs support, even though it has started operating relatively well and there are scheduled flights to three European destinations. Much has been said in recent days about driving and climate objectives. I believe that we should keep our feet still on the ground here too. It is realism in Finland that people need their own car. Efforts must be made to rejuvenate the car fleet, but not everyone can afford to buy at least expensive electric cars. We still need biofuels for a long time, including renewable biofuels in almost all diesel cars as such. Realism is to admit that aircraft and heavy traffic, for example, will continue to use internal combustion engines for a long time. The climate is not only saved by making driving more expensive. Mr President! It is very good that the promotion of walking and cycling has now finally come to the state budget in concrete terms. When it comes to citizens' equality and transport connections, we must not forget fast and functional network connections. It is therefore good that broadband projects should be continued with unused funds. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Transport for his tenacity on the issue of vignettes. Finally, the Ministry of Finance came along and the government was able to submit a proposal to Parliament for a road tax on heavy lorries. This will make heavy foreign traffic pay for the use of our roads. Of course, changes must not increase the overall taxation of domestic heavy goods transport. Mr Hoskonen raised the issue of the waterways, and I would like to say that the continuation of the closures of the Saimaa Canal will also be very important in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u430	Mr President! The debate on electric cars and their role in combating climate change is also hot in Finland. It must be noted that the forecasts and visions of many serious players are highly ambitious. In various scenarios, between 600000 and 700000 electric cars have been planned for Finland to be in traffic in the 2030s. The equation is practically impossible. I would remind you that CO2 emissions from road transport in Finland represent 17 per cent of total emissions, i.e. approximately 10.8 million tonnes. Carbon dioxide emissions from passenger cars amount to 9%, which means 5.9 million tonnes. By comparison, the emissions produced by the two largest companies producing carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere, the Raahe steel plant and Helsingin Energia, are 7.1 million tonnes per year, which is about 20 per cent higher than total emissions from passenger car traffic in Finland. It is also good to know that emissions from the 20 largest sources of emissions in the energy sector total approximately 20 million tonnes, i.e. nearly double the total emissions from road transport in Finland based on data for 2017. Thus, the annual CO2 emissions from passenger car traffic in Finland are negligible compared to the global load. In practice, even if Finland stopped moving completely, it would not have a real impact on global CO2 load. The Climate Panel and Sitra published their vision that Finland should have 850,000 electric cars in 28 C.E. The Ministry of Transport and Communications task force scored 660,000 full electric cars and 130,000 gas cars by 2030. Achieving these objectives would mean selling between 60,000 and 85,000 new full electric cars in Finland every year from now on. At present, there are well under 10,000 fully electric cars in Finland and all in all, more than 100,000 new cars are sold per year. In 2017, 780,000 full electric cars were completed in the world as a whole. A tenth of this production should therefore be made available to Finland from now on. China will enter into force in 20 C.E. by a law of 12% Cars sold as new cars in China must be fully electric. In terms of sales figures, this means 3.6 million electric cars for the Chinese market alone every year. So it may be that in the coming years there will simply not be enough electric cars on the Finnish market, no matter how much we would like to buy them. Mr President! Based on the foregoing, no technology should be condemned. Gasoline engines, diesel engines, gas engines, electric motors all develop strongly and are more environmentally friendly every year and are all in use in the world in the 2030s. More recently, there have been demonizations of diesel cars. However, the carbon dioxide emissions of a diesel engine are, in principle, about 20% lower than that of a petrol engine. Diesel technology, and internal combustion engines are also developing at a high speed by car manufacturers and are more environmentally friendly every year. The average CO2 emissions of cars registered in Europe in 21 years may not exceed 95 grams per kilometre. Mr President! The technology of electric cars still needs to develop well and the sales volumes will have to grow to make them suitable for ordinary consumers' purses. At present, they are too expensive and the range of models does not meet the needs of a normal family, among other things. On the basis of the foregoing, it is likely that it will be easy to understand that no sudden decisions can be made regarding the movement of people. Combustion motor vehicles, diesels and petrol cars, are sold and have to be used for a long time. They must not be made excessively expensive or difficult for Finns to use. The introduction of new technologies in transport must be promoted by means of the carrot principle as technology develops and becomes available to a normal road user at a price and its operational characteristics meet the needs of people in Finland. In general, the annual CO2 emissions from Finnish transport are lower than the annual increase in emissions caused by developing countries. This scale is good to be aware of. Although the figures look bad, of course, we must not throw a towel in the ring, but we must do what we can to prevent climate change. However, work to prevent climate change must be done in the light of realities, taking into account the natural laws of physics and chemistry,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u434	Mr President! That has given us a very good overview of the situation at this stage in the case of electric cars, and I can say that I will fully sign Mr Kopra's speech in that regard. It's the future, but it's time to move forward. Mr President! The administrative branch of the Ministry of Transport and Communications has been discussed today in this Chamber, and many speakers have spoken about the debt of correction. Of course, there is still some work to be done on the Finnish routes. In particular, there is something to be done about the roads and this funding. I hope that the future government already has a clear vision of how new large investments in Finland will be financed in the future. This so-called budget-driven financing option for large investments has come to an end. There are indeed two and a half billion repair debts. We must thank this government very much for reducing it by EUR 300 million each year. Hopefully, the same will be achieved in the future. The parliamentary group did a good job in its 12-year plan, and I certainly hope that it will continue. Therefore, long-term sustainability will be gained in the Finnish transport and bus investment programme. With regard to new projects, this kind of long-termity is necessary, and I hope that it will go beyond the terms of the government, as this parliamentary working group set out. Important achievements for this year were also this main route regulation that defined which routes belong to the main route in Finland. There may be regional differences, and there may have been some cases of discontent in some parts of a province, but overall I consider it to be good and quite fair for the whole country. The most important idea was the objectives and needs of the business community, and on that basis this core network survey was carried out very far. Indeed, a very commendable speech on electric cars was just heard. I also agree that we must take up the challenges and objectives of climate change that have been set. They are ambitious and must certainly be pursued, but there must be realism in the measures, and we must think about what Finnish transport is at the moment. For myself, I would see that biodiesel and ethanol alternatives and gas alternatives are the ones for which reasonable solutions can be made in Finland at the moment. They are affordable and, at the moment, there are about 3 million cars in Finland, so I hope that these fuel solutions will be the way to make this whole 3 million car fleet use these bio-options. Then these blending obligations and this ethanol option and others become almost the only option. Of course, electric cars — when, in due course, they enter the market at a lower price and are available to all of us — will be an important alternative to clean transport. Rail transport has been mentioned and good speeches have been made here. I think it is important that Finland now aligns three major routes on the tracks, and in that I would like to raise this debate on the east track, which has risen in this house this year. The necessary studies must be carried out and on the basis of this, we must consider which one of them is the most economical option and, of course, take into account the international connections of Finns. Representative Alatalo commented here with merit on the taxi reform, and I will sign her opinion in it. I hope that a lively debate will take place over the coming year or over the next few years on the reform and its benefits and disadvantages and then make the necessary changes if this is to be said. I would also like to hope that Parliament will pay particular attention to winter maintenance even in the coming winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u435	Mr President! The renovation debt of transport routes has increased by around EUR 100 million per year throughout the 2000s until 2015. Then, when Sipilä’s government was formed — the True Finns were involved — this debt reduction of EUR 300 million in three years was included in the Government Programme. That is how the guidelines of the parliamentary working party of the previous parliamentary term were implemented. This was extremely important, and it was possible to stop, perhaps even shorten, the debt of correction. Now, however, I regret to say that this episode is gone — well, the Finns are no longer in the government, and I guess that's what you'll see. Mr President! It is important that next spring's government negotiations and spending limits debate and the parliamentary spending limits decision take the debt of correction seriously again and invest in it in such a way that future generations will have access to the knowledge, this valuable national wealth, in a better condition than we have received it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u436	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u437	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u442	Mr President! The less than an hour train between Tampere and Helsinki is the most important and impressive rail transport project in Finland in the 2020s. Speeding up the train connection makes everyday life easier for a large number of people every day. The capacity and condition of the main track do not currently meet the requirements of today, let alone the future. The best way to resolve the situation in a sustainable way and improve the traffic on the main line is to build additional railway capacity for the Tampere-Helsinki section. Additional tracks allow for improved service and shorter travel time and reduce delays in trains. Additional tracks also enable local and local transport to be developed. It is possible to improve the services in a variety of ways, as long as there is room on the tracks. To build up more capacity would mean that the current congestion would be reduced. In Pirkanmaa, we have worked for a train for less than an hour with determination. Half of Finns live in the affected area of the main railway line between Tampere and Helsinki, so the benefits would be widely shared. The trip from Helsinki will be smoother in addition to Tampere, for example, to Oulu, Seinäjoki, Vaasa, Jyväskylä and Pori. Finland must take a leap at the time of high-speed train connections, and the main railway line is justified as the first to be repaired.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u446	Mr President, värderade talman! Som vi alla vet har vi en ganska stor reparationsskuld i vårt trafiknät. Den uppgår nu till 2.5 billion euro, och den rauta skulden har uppstått under mångaårs tid för att vi helt enkelt inte ärksdage — och inte flera regeringar efter varandra — har lyckats avsätta tillräckliga medel för att scöta den raus saken. I den trafikpolitiska redogörelsen som riksdage godkände under förra valperioden slogans det fast att vi ska satsa på att förbättra befintlig infrastruktur innan vi börjar bygga nowt, och det tycker jag fortfarande är klokt. Jag tycker att vi ska satsa på de vägar och jävägar som vi alla vet att är i dåligt skick. Sedan när vi har satt dem i skick kan vi fundera på att bygga nowt. Till exempel behöver kustbanan grundförbattras och banans capacitet okas med dubbla spår. Om man ska bygga nya tågbanor tycker jag att man borde bygga österut från Helsingfors längs kusten, Borgå och Lovisa och så vidare.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u447	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has happened in the transport sector during this parliamentary term, thanks to the current government and to the Minister for Transport, Anne Berner. In fact, for the first time, the road repair debt was taken seriously. It had accumulated 2.5 billion and has been drastically reduced this period. There will also be funding for next year to reduce the correction debt. And it is extremely important that the next government also commits itself in a similar way to this whole, that we put our road network in order, including the smaller road network. In the Committee on Finance, we raised small gravel roads, for example. We have our own bankruptcy funding coming next year and so on. However, the roads that are needed today in Finland even for everyday mobility and also for securing Finnish food production, including milk production, must be put in order. I would like to thank my fellow Members on a regional basis for providing funding for Riihimäki's parking facilities, which also facilitates the use of bus and coach services in commuting from a large area. I also see as important the financing of the game fence on the main road 54. It is one of the worst deer collisions in Finland, and this section of the road has about 100 deer crashes per year, and the western part of it is now being put in order. Mr President! I am not discussing car tax in detail today. However, I am bringing the same proposal, which is more widely found in the minutes of the House a few days ago, that I think it would be appropriate to make a decision on the car tax in the next parliamentary term, with a four- or five-year programme, for example, so that it would be the first to be abandoned for low-emission and zero-emission cars and then completely. It would also be an environmental act. I also welcome today's solution to the vignette charge. [Parliament :Jooliaika! ] Mr President! There's been a lot of talk about the main track. Among other things, the Tampere MP Sofia Vikma spoke well about the main track a moment ago and pointed out its important effects, including the fact that as many as 3 million Finns live along this main track. And now a solution has been found that the main line will be able to compete for more than EUR 30 billion of EU investment, to seek this funding as part of the EU core network corridor to which it is entering through the Connecting Europe programme. Much has been done on the main track, even though in our province, too, certain parties want to spread completely incorrect information. Phase one started in 2016. It was then that the operation of the transport points was improved, the first additional tracks were built between Ainola and Poland. Currently there is renovation of Riihimäki station yard, where the work will continue until 2020. And in the past, a project, a triangular track, which was a prerequisite for changes in the gear and track of the main track, has already been done, albeit rather small. This facilitated, among other things, this congested junction station. In the second phase, which was completed this year and where the project is about to be implemented, additional tracks will be built between Kerava and Jokela. This creates a uniform four-track section of the main line of 20 km. And the additional tracks will also be built between Kytömaa—Ainola and Purola—Jokela and freight tracks between Hyvinkää and Riihimäki and Kerava in Lahti.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u448	Mr Ala-Nissila, you have your own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u449	I would like to thank you for that and say that excellent contributions have been made. We see that transport is an important issue in Finland as a whole. There are important projects everywhere. In that sense, it is important that we find a financing solution for the new parliamentary term, because otherwise we will be faced with an impossible situation. And when I said that it is important for the whole of Finland, I am going to assume that not all roads should come here to Helsinki, but that transport really plays an exceptional role in terms of housing, entrepreneurship, regional development at these times. Then, Mr President, where is the shortest road to Europe? I'll answer it myself: it's from Turku. Turku is the shortest way to Europe, and that is why it is important that the roads there are in good shape. We are in favour of these hour train solutions, but before that, there is still time in Finland, and it is important to get these export routes and transport safety routes in order. If I now go to south-west Finland, it is the nine road, the eight road, the bypass, the Parainen fairway, all the renovation, development projects that are important for Finnish industry that must be implemented. When we talk about an hour train and an hour train to Tampere, however, they are not meant to benefit Helsinki alone. That is why it is important that this regional traffic works there in Tampere, Pirkanmaa, lunch and elsewhere. That's when you get the benefits. [Department :Multi-track? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u450	Mr President! In this administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, there are many important minor improvements: EUR 25 million for winter maintenance and maintenance of the road log; EUR 10 million for additional funding for the level crossing programme — which, however, will continue with the next government's very powerful and large sums. There have been a lot of these level crossing incidents. They are a human issue and indeed a security issue. In addition, the halves of fairway charges for shipping will continue in the following years. In the longer term, it would be advisable for the next government to make the abolition of the fairway charge entirely the objective of the Government Programme. The hour's track from Helsinki has also been highlighted here. The allocation of EUR 1 million for planning is a good start, but I would see that it would make sense, as a first step, to take the railway line from Leppävaara in Espoo to Kauklahti. It would be such a realistic start to the final project of the entire hour track. I believe that the sum would be estimated at approximately EUR 275 million for this urban track, from Leppävaara in Espoo to Kauklahti, which is, I fully admit, in my home town for a long time already wanted and seen as important alongside the West Metro — a railway project that would also have a significant impact on commuters and then, of course, on business. Mr President! In this context, when we talk about transport and when we talk about the Ministry of Transport and Communications, we have to bring up this climate report, which I am sure has already been mentioned here. Helsingin Sanomat described this report in such a way that ‘experts do not hesitate to drive a car,that everyone would change the way they go’. In my opinion, this is just a horror of the thinking that someone can really have, that is to make driving, smooth movement, so expensive that everyone would change their way. Of course, the question is, where would they switch to? Not everyone has the chance to take that bus at the end of the longwoods there, and although I am the chairman of VR's board of directors, there's no reasonable alternative to VR anywhere in the country right now, so where do you want to go to, the electric car? Well, in this climate policy debate of the Prime Minister of St1 Mika Anttonen said that if we want to take electric cars into really massive use globally, that would mean the introduction of all the cobalt that is currently known in the world. Nor does it sound to be an awfully realistic climate option, especially since it is known that the production of batteries is not without emissions, but, in fact, some studies have shown that the longer life cycle of an electric car may even have a more harmful emission solution than the current internal combustion engines, which are increasingly efficient in themselves. After all, this government's line has been quite correct. The car tax has been reduced by hundreds of millions of euros. And I must be surprised that, once this has been done, both the Social Democrats and the Greens are opposed to this reduction, even though, for example, in the alternative budget for the Greens and, I understand, the objectives of the next elections are that the car tax on low-emission cars should be abolished altogether. Why, then, have we always had to resist what the government is doing, let us say, gradually? Blues would like to abolish the car tax on all cars, not just on low-emission cars, but on all cars. If you look at emissions, the average car today is actually quite low. In addition, the vehicle tax will be reduced in 2020. It is also important for those who say, as a legitimate criticism in themselves, that you are lightening the car tax, but what about us people who cannot afford to buy a new car? Well, this will, of course, benefit that group of people. Mr President, I would like to take a closer look at the green alternative budget and its proposals for the motorist. The Greens would increase the taxation of diesel by EUR 100 million, cancel the increase of EUR 1 million by the government in transport aid, limit the kilometric allowance for their own car services by EUR 140 million, and increase the retention of commuter travel and reduce the ceiling, which would have a total impact of EUR 57 million. This is also a very special line in the sense that the Raahe Steel Factory and Helen, known as Helsingin Energia, alone produce more CO2 emissions than all passenger traffic. Why do we demonise the entire passenger traffic that is as important as it is in our sparsely populated country? I must say that Antti Rinteen, Pekka Haavisto and Li Andersson
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u452	Mr President! The previous speech is quite correct in assessing what is going on in this demonization of transport if we do not have patience, and I personally hope that we will have to be patient with this debate. With regard to broadband, I would also like to mention that broadband needs to be extended throughout Finland during the coming government term, so that regional reform, and mainly social and health care, can be organised, services that are equal for citizens and everyone. This requires a good and well-functioning broadband network across the country. There is still concern about the winter maintenance of traffic here, and now that some of the regions have been re-competitive and in accordance with the new rules of the game, I hope that, as learnt from the experiences of the coming year and winter, those data will be used if they are more positive than the old system. I believe, at least, because it has also been suggested, through discussions with machine contractors, that future tendering and contract award would be clearly better than this current system, which, of course, has left a little to be desired. To the issue of the demonization of electric cars and diesel cars. I hope that the debate will indeed take place in such a way that the value of biodiesel and such fuel alternatives, which all Finns already have the opportunity to use, will be recognised and will be mobilised on the basis of making all nearly 3 million cars more environmentally friendly and not considering a few tens of thousands or a few thousand cars and making huge tax subsidies. I hope, at least, that all in all, Finnish transport will take a cleaner, more climate-friendly line, and it will leave through fuels when the obligation to mix and these biogas and ethanol alternatives are only increased. Finally, I would like to mention today's best news, that is, the government's proposal for a vignette, that is, a road tax, where the centre strongly pushed this issue through to the end, that we can still get this proposal to the government on the side of this year. This is an excellent thing for Finnish transport and Finns. We make foreigners pay for it when they use Finnish routes, and then we replace this with something, compensate for it by reducing vehicle tax, as is the case with that proposal, it is one good option.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u453	Mr President! The movement must be smooth with different modes of travel. When we want to make an ambitious climate policy, I stress the importance of impact assessments and cost calculations when comparing the different means and the range of measures. For example, the measures advocated by the Coalition Party in the field of transport policy to reduce emissions are that we are moving the taxation of new cars completely from the tax on the purchase of a car to the taxation of emissions from motor vehicles. The objective here is that a vehicle using electricity or biogas is always more competitive than a fossil fuel car for the Finnish population in the 2030s. Another good way is to develop rail transport, fast connections. If, between Helsinki and Tampere, the train journey could be speeded up to less than an hour, moving from the use of your own car to the tracks would be a very competitive option. There's a lot of people out there that still have their own car to go on. On the other hand, it must be borne in mind that long distances from your own car in Finland must continue to be possible for everyone as necessary. Not everyone even has the chance to get a new electric car very quickly and move on to a new car. On the other hand, from an environmental point of view, it certainly makes sense to balance the fact that the existing car fleet is also being run out to an appropriate degree. I stress the impact assessments and the calculation of costs in what is the most effective possible climate policy, but climate policy must also succeed in ambitious solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u454	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Berner for his tenacity on at least two points. This vignette news was an excellent thing that was now passed, and the Ministry of Finance was also translated into the background. The second point was here, namely that Minister Berner is also the Nordic Minister for Cooperation, and in these negotiations Sweden's head was also translated into the fact that Sweden also went in favour of this TEN-T track network from Stockholm to Tornio, and we Finns will then take it back from Tornio to Helsinki. After all, this search is going on for us in the EU, and I hope that we will also get this TEN-T network funding for this main rail project, which has been excellently set up in the past. That would be about 20%. We need that funding for it, and we must also look at other financial instruments. According to the current LVM design card, construction of the main railway line from Helsinki to Tampere would only be completed in 2039. If we find new financial instruments, such as EU funding and possible other investors through a financial company, then we can speed up that process. It is a great thing that a million planning money has now been put into it, but it will require 10 million at least for that planning, and hopefully in the next government programme the financial issue will clearly be taken to the finish line. There are approximately 4.5 million passengers on the main track up to Tampere every year, and about 6.5 million on the Riihimäki-Helsinki route. It's a very well-run track range, and it's really stuffy. When this is combined with these forest industry products from Äänekoski, among other things, there will be no new traffic between them. We tried to get Allegro to turn to Tampere when we made this correction by Riihimäki, but there is no room. They didn't find a time-slot for these trains, so we have to get this third track. The third point is the rehabilitation of the Third Columns for Pirkanmaa. It has progressed to the Hämeenkyrö roundabouts, and when there is a excavator running there, I think it would be sensible to continue to reform the Threeties from then on towards the Wall River. Refurbishment of nines. I think we agree with Ala-Nissilä that ninetie will be able to get up from Turku. The gap is very tight from Tampere to Jyväskylä, and especially when we start moving from Tampere. The plans have been made, and I hope there will be funding for it quite soon. There's been some unnecessary death cases right now. It's a very crowded and dangerous road. I should like to thank the government for the fact that 17 million more have been allocated to private roads for next year. It is very important that our timber, materials, industrial products are accessible from the farms, houses, businesses, the world and exports. I guess the last government had only 3 million in it, and that also went to 2 Los Angeles, so that this is a big step forward, and I hope that this funding will also be maintained. There's one thing that's gonna change. Through the regional reform, the regions will have this road responsibility and also the responsibility of rail transport. Various project pilots and railway pilots are on the way, and I would at least like to see us, Pirkanmaa, getting on with pilots dealing with passenger transport, commuter trains and also with the connection of this Tampere rail transport to this rail network. Mr President! Accessibility is an important issue for rural areas and also for other regions, and the promotion of this fibre network, the broadband issue, is very important. I am glad that the legislative amendment was introduced so that these funds can be spent even longer, but I would also like to see new funding in these areas. Cars and traffic. We have a distribution obligation in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I see that, through this distribution obligation, I personally encourage the search for new biofuels, the use of internal combustion engine technology as far as possible, and hence a cleaner climate in these emissions issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u455	Mr President! It is indeed a great thing that major reforms have been made in the transport sector during this period, and also more of that concrete money has been made on our roads. It is to be hoped that the next governments will be as ambitious as we are that our debt of correction will actually be paid at the same rate as in this period and then we will be able to agree on that financial reform. It is rather sad that we are only one of the few countries with Greece that are paying for these major corrections and investments from the budget. Every citizen understands that it is not possible to continue along this path, but we need a new financing model and that broad vision and responsibility for running the entire Finnish routes in the future. Mr President! With regard to this budget for next year, it is good that we also invest in these business investments around Finland, and when jobs increase, we will take care of this good development. For example, with regard to the responsible mining industry in the north, the state also assumes its responsibilities, and Kainuu will receive this road funding for both Terrafame and the new Sotkamo Silver mine, so that these roads can be properly and safely provided for local residents and businesses and employees. Mr President! And now for this winter road service: Indeed, there was proper and quite understandable feedback, especially last winter, when these particular problems arose with regard to road management. Climate change also contributes to this. I also put a written question to the government about the winter maintenance of roads at the time, because there was so much feedback from the citizens and also from the road contractors themselves from Kainuu and from the north. Last winter, Anne Berner, Minister of Transport and Communications, decided on a programme of measures to improve winter road management. Additional funding for winter road management immediately amounted to EUR 2 million at the beginning of the year and EUR 15 million increased for this winter. This is also evident in the budget now clearly that money will be put here from this winter onwards. The criteria for winter road management, management classifications and operating times were also updated and the project model for road management was developed to meet the changing needs of the regions. Contractors are now better able to go to road maintenance when that is necessary. We no longer have to wait for permits to go higher, but common sense has also been introduced here, and this improved situation and this new construction model is supposed to be visible on our roads from this winter onwards. Mr President! I would also like to comment on this main route regulation, about which there has been a lot of false rumours, and quite a lot has also had to correct the writing of opposition representatives in our region as regards what this main route regulation means. This regulation is, therefore, specifically concerned with road management and these road maintenance classifications, which have already been laid down in the past, and this was first introduced into the political decision-making process through the regulation. This has been mixed up with road repairs, with investments that are decided by quite different means and at a different point. In the forthcoming 12-year transport system plan, cooperation between the regions and the state will then be based on these road repairs, investment in the network and its development, and these must certainly not be confused. And now that this road service has been improved, it is worth emphasising that all the roads in our country are managed and managed according to traffic volumes and weather conditions, including the needs of their businesses at the level of care required by their roads. This will also happen. Good road management does not require the main bus maintenance level, which is not, for example, at Ring One. The treatment classes were also raised on the necessary roads last spring. This Regulation will ensure that the level of road maintenance is not reduced and will, if necessary, be further increased, e.g. business activity will increase traffic in the region. This is an important point, and I hope that this misinformation will no longer be shared in that regard, because the investment in the road will indeed be decided at a different point and by different decisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u456	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very nice to see that Mr Gustafsson has also come to this Chamber. For a moment I feared that the main opposition party would not be interested in these transport policy issues, but fortunately Mr Gustafsson is very much in line with the 10 to 15 representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u461	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk today about different rail projects, and that is a good thing. There has been talk of the Turku hour train, the main track, no matter how far it would be. It is very good that these have been raised, but it is also very good that the eastern route has been raised in the debate and has been raised in line with these other two major railway projects. The eastern track will serve all of south-eastern, eastern and northern Finland. I personally hope that the report that is now under way will also show that it is necessary and will be included in the programme for the coming years. I would also like to highlight one railway project which has already been decided and which has already started in practice, namely the refurbishment of the Karelia track, specifically under the double track heading Luumäki-Imatra. In fact, I would like to say that I would like to see these rail projects go along in a structured way. At the moment, when we talk about the double track Luumäki—Imatra and when we leave here from Helsinki, it's practically in the plan at the moment. Luomäki—Lappeenranta—Woutseno is a common one-track track and then Imatra turns into a two-track track. I personally hope that this first stage will be achieved, which is so planned, and that the whole phase of the railway project will soon be completed, that is to say, the second stage, and I hope that it will continue to the border crossing point there on Imatra. It is very important that we take this forward. Madam President! I would like to raise the issue of the Government's road safety package. It includes the continuation of this level crossing programme, EUR 10 million, a very important issue, and this should also take into account the fact that there are levels crossings to be improved in urban and municipal areas that municipalities should take this into account. Similarly, in this package of road safety, winter maintenance and maintenance, EUR 25 million, is a very important issue. Last winter has already shown that it is necessary, and so has this winter, there have been many accidents in this early winter, including on Highway 13 in the Savitaipale in Ottiönmäki, where four trucks have already drifted into the ditch, and I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u462	Madam President! If this climate report from the Ministry of Transport and Communications has been successful somewhere, then electrify this hall. This does give rise to a lot of emotion, both in this Chamber and among the citizens. After all, it is suggested here, crystallized, that car charges should be increased and that internal combustion cars should be banned even at a very rapid pace, whether or not they will be said in the next few years. This is the basic thing that amazes people and scares them a little. The question is, as is often the case, who pays, who pays, who benefits. In any case, there is some sort of redistribution of money on climate change issues. It needs to be very precise, because if we go wrong, the payer is the current resident of a sparsely populated or smaller city, the Finnish and the winner who drives an internal combustion car — petrol or diesel — would be in that red green model, at least right there in the nearby town of Kallio, who would get free public transport and not use an internal combustion engine. ‘All that is forbidden is that,however,it is necessary for me to be So now you have to be very specific about who wins and who loses, who pays and who benefits. Here is the great danger that the low income who lives there in the sparsely populated area will be the loser. It is likely to be more profitable in the suburbs of the city, then the winner. Then, if you look at this electric car: It is a very good goal in itself, but if you look at what is being said in this report, an increase in electric cars, then this week the Automotive Union made a calculation, according to which — to which Mr Kaikonen here referred — the average price of the car is currently EUR 3,600. And if you think that the tax-free price for a new electric car would be 30,000, then if the state were to pay for this purchase price, for example, half — when you often hear that you should pay more subsidies, then people will — it would mean that the electrification of the car fleet would cost EUR 800 million every year for ten years. How realistic is this idea when even the download infrastructure should be invested, then what is perhaps the easier part of this question? In view of the fact that emissions from passenger cars represent 9% of all emissions, should we nevertheless consider that, in terms of emissions, some other target is more important than it is now, but in a country such as Finland, which is a very important part of our everyday life and smooth mobility and, of course, of our business life. Finally, Mr President, the idea is that since 90 C.E. transport emissions have remained broadly at the same level, even though our economy has grown even though the number of cars has increased. This is, of course, due to technological developments: lower emissions from existing cars. It's really not all that's gone wrong. And Finland is also one of the few countries in which the economy has grown in recent years and yet emissions have decreased. That's why I think we should think about something other than car traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u463	Madam President! Representative Elo spoke quite the truth about the fact that it really makes no sense, for example, to ban the sudden head of diesel cars. We must see internal combustion cars as a very effective means of reducing emissions when we move on to biofuels. Anyone who says it is not sustainable in the long run, for example, more than 80% of liquid biodiesel comes from recycled material, which means that there is still plenty of opportunities on that side. Similarly, we have biogas car racing in its very beginnings. It can make quite rapid progress by changing the car fleet with small changes and now with conversion aid to biogas cars. I think it is very sensible to do so, and it is great that Central Finland in particular has started to invest in this issue and also encourages the distribution network to carry out various projects. It was a tremendous achievement that this government set aside a one - billion debt. This same theme must also continue with the next governments so that we can get our road networks in order. Accessibility is a prerequisite for all business and housing. Of course, this is also a prerequisite for other accessibility, namely broadband. In the case of the broadband project, the Parliamentary Group on sparsely populated rural areas set out a universal service obligation of 20 megabits per second until 2020, and I believe that this is an objective that will keep clear the next term of government as well. With regard to Central Finland in particular, I would like to express my thanks for the road projects that have come there, both for the larger four-way projects and now for the smaller parliamentary appropriations, which have also come there. On the other hand, I am not satisfied that the Government has not assumed its responsibility for broadband in relation to the fibre project in Central Finland. At the time, the State lured municipalities into participating in a joint project to get broadband for all, and now that municipalities have participated in it, the State does not accept its responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u464	Madam President! Traffic infrastructure projects and road maintenance are important — I know this when I work as the daughter of a road construction master and as a maintenance worker. Improvement and acceleration of rail connections are also necessary and important in this country of long distances and also of varying weather conditions. Road safety alone requires that the resource needs of road maintenance are covered. Savings from winter maintenance are life-threatening. Mobility is necessary for us, and it is also necessary for us decision-makers to ensure that smoother and more and less-emission mobility is possible for all Finns and becomes possible in the future. We need low-emission public transport; we need low-emission passenger car transport. It requires, among other things, a nationwide network of biogas plants and biogas distribution stations. By the way, driving with biogas is currently the most affordable form of passenger car transport. It also requires an expansion of the electricity charging point network and requires price development in low-emission car models to make it possible for all Finns to do what it is not at present. Madam President! About this climate policy, to which much has been referred: Last spring, a number of prominent researchers published an assessment in Science magazine of what needs to be done globally to mitigate climate change. Since then we have received a clear message — or could you say an alert report — also in the form of an IPCC of 1.5 degrees and again with climate experts in Katowice, Poland, last week. The message is that every ten years global emissions must be halved in the long-term in order to achieve the climate objective of the Paris Agreement. We must therefore act quickly here, and we rich Western consumer societies, where the carbon footprint per capita is at the top of the world, cannot really be among those who slow down. It is our responsibility to show the model, to develop the best means and technologies in the first place and to export this expertise to other countries – that is also business. From this point of view, it is a very good thing that the government has supported the strengthening of EU emissions targets, including transport emission reduction targets. This must now be a cold head and keep in line, although even in this Chamber it is not a hundred praises from all directions when emission reduction measures are being tightened. Mr President! There are very few countries in the world whose national emissions targets are in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We are used to considering the European Union as a global top priority, but also the emission reduction targets adopted so far by the EU, in which Finland is involved, are not in line with the objective of the Paris climate agreement, but it is estimated that they will end up around 3 degrees of warming in the control of climate change — that is half too much. It is so much too much in the process of warming that it would mean very extensive and very devastating changes in the lives of hundreds of millions of people, most of all in poor countries, of course, but it would be the countries in the north and the Arctic that would warm the climate most. As a responsible country, Finland cannot accept such a scenario. On top of the neck, climate change is so massive, so overwhelming that the government in climate work must now be encouraged to achieve ever better and faster performances, including the next governments. Mr President! The problem of our time is obviously that too many still feel that there is no need to change consumption habits, transport habits and the whole society we know. That is not the case. This ball does not stand up to the ideology of continuous growth, in which the interests of the few always prevail over the common interest. The essential element of transport policy is emissions reductions. They are a part, not the most important part, but an important part, of our emission reductions, and here we need all the parts.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u465	Madam President! I would like to correct my own speech, which I made a moment ago, at the outset. I quoted a press release from the Minister of Finance, which said that the tax would be compensated by a reduction in the vehicle tax. As far as I know, there is no reduction in the vehicle tax, but it is a reduction in the power tax or some other measure, but it is not a reduction in the vehicle tax that compensates for the vignette tax. I would like to correct it here so that it is correctly recorded in the Minutes. There has also been talk of rail transport, and I would like to point out that the first TEN-T project in Finland is indeed already on the move. It is a TEN-T project for the logistics centre in Kouvola, and I hope that the government will welcome it. A few applications have already been made to the EU and another application is under way. The money has not yet been allocated from there, and here Mr Pirttilahti made a distinguished speech that 20% would be able to receive the EU funding. I hope that money will be made available to this logistics centre in Kouvola. This is about container train traffic, which has now been operating between Kouvola and China for about a year now. Once a week, the average goal is to leave the train, and it has progressed somewhat in its target schedule. There are currently exports of various metal processed products and pulp and other products. It should, of course, lead to the introduction of a slightly higher level of processing on board the train. But there is already a connection, a rail connection, between Finland and China, and this logistics center is about to be established in Kouvola, the region of Tehintie. It is a major rail project, and that is where this TEN-T network would be an important head start. To this objective of climate change. There has been a lot of talk here about the various reforms that would get us there, but if, in principle, we could all look in the mirror and reduce our own consumption by 5% in our lives, I believe that this ball would have been saved. We would not have to consider any different modes of transport or energy sources, but if we took less than 5% of all consumption of life, then this world would be saved by that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u466	Madam President! Much has been said in this Chamber about the Government's efforts to improve road safety. Good for you, road safety is an important issue. A good extension of these road safety efforts is that we will finally be able to replace mopeds in transport with speed-limited passenger cars. We will facilitate the movement of young people and thus improve road safety. Replacement of the moped is becoming possible on November 1st. Next year, and it is a good road safety project in that it is not even a massive direct investment from the state budget, but it fits perfectly into the continuum of this budget to improve road safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u467	Madam President! Last night, there was a debate on climate policy here late in the evening, and in that context we had a rather heated exchange of ideas. It is now a pleasure to note that here Kopra, Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, and Kaikkonen and Elo, Group Presidents of the Group, have come to the basic Finnish climate policy line on transport policy, i.e. the ban on diesel cars that this working group proposed. That is certainly not a government proposal yet, but if the Greens and that left side come to the government in the spring, then certainly very soon there will be realism. It is good to hear that at least these three parties here are knocking it out — and so am I for us, and that has been clear for a long time. These solutions should not be made in panic, even though climate change is a fact. Every measure must be considered: whether it makes sense, whether it is worthwhile and, as we did last night, who will pay for it. And this model, which has now been on the table here, goes to the low-income people in rural areas to pay quite unreasonably and also to many small entrepreneurs, and that is something we cannot accept under any circumstances. In other words, realism in this debate, and I am glad to see that it has now been found in such an authoritative crowd. Mr President! As far as Vinjet is concerned, it is excellent that it has now received a proposal, and apparently this compensation model for Finnish transport companies is also what makes sense. Mr President! Then I have a suggestion. Yesterday I looked into this business support issue, which we had a debate on, and I found out that the coalition, the centre and the Social Democrats, under the last parliamentary elections, promised an annual cut of some 300 million trade subsidies. They all promised me in the election. Well, we know what's going on. This working group was held under the leadership of Vice-President Pekkarinen and the result was zero, while the interest groups were also involved in the process of shuffling, monitoring their interests. I now propose that this 300 million business aid be taken over next season and that the corresponding amount be used to reduce the amount of road repair debt and that the emphasis be placed on industrial policy in these areas. If we do this, business, employment and everything will benefit us. Is this presentation good enough for the assembly, for the Social Democrats, for the center? I think we're good enough. The 300 million can be found in places that are harmful or, at least, ineffective.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u468	Madam President! With regard to the propulsion of vehicles: Indeed, the government had a rather challenging proposal that we would have 250,000 electric cars in 2030, and that time is also very fast, but this new proposal that we would have to renew 60,000 cars a year is a long way off. But, indeed, in some time frame, traffic will be electrified and digitised, nothing more. I personally see this through the obligation to distribute, and the fact that we are seeking biofuels, bio-components for fuels, is an excellent thing. And that representative in the town of Torniainen. There is good research in Lappeenranta, among other things, on the development of synthetic fuels. We have hydrolysis, we have the possibility of hydrogen, so we should not, at least by law, restrict research into these new fuel opportunities, the study, nor the investment that is currently being made in it. For example, this biogas side is significant, and I personally see that in the case of heavy traffic, biogas or biogas will be one product. For example, we have a decision from Pirkanmaa Waste Management that in two years' time all their trucks will be using biogas. I would see that, in terms of public transport and these, this would be a very sensible form of fuel. Now, a few words about the taxi thing. That may not have been the way it was in this room, but it was in squares and turbulents, especially when you sit in a taxi. It did not go quite as it did in Strömsö in many respects, but at least taxi companies themselves say that the reform itself was right in many places. But when connected with this Kela competition, which went a little wrong with the operation of the regional taxis, the taxis in the provincial centers and taxis in the sparsely populated areas were very much at odds. The taxi race was pretty clear. At least that's where the central hospital's yard saw this competition since. Maybe these inflamed relationships are getting better, too. And quite a bit I would point out to the provinces that they themselves should develop and take forward the operation of the regional taxis. The Competition and Consumer Authority is also one of the cookers. In other words, when it is said that there is no taxi in the countryside at night, it is not legal, we see that it is a cartel if you put some sort of waiting list or schedule on the taxi wall as to who will take turns working the night shift there. This must not be done; it is a distortion of competition. Eli has come up with a variety of strange things to open this competition. I hope there's the right policy for this. Not all of these are Anne Berner's faults. There's a whole lot of soup in that county, though.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u469	Madam President! Representative Pirttilahti raised an important issue, the functioning of taxis throughout the country. It is important that they are made to work, whether they are just ordinary taxis in rural areas or Kela taxis or taxis under the Disability Services Act. Now that they all came into this same whole, it seems that it just does not work. And it is incredible if this is really true, for example, that this type of restriction on competition exists, that taxis cannot take their own shifts, how they are on duty and thus guarantee traffic in that rural area. We'll have to fix it if that's what it's all about. The same is said to be true of the fact that taxis, even if they go under the name of the local taxi, cannot be obliged to drive at the same price if the car is taken off the pole, and this too is, of course, completely unreasonable. Road safety has now been a major priority. We've been talking about level crossings. We still have a lot of work to do. There will be improvements next year, but at this rate it will take too long for all these dangerous level crossings to be fixed. Next year there will also be cycle paths. In fact, they are even the best places to exercise in the neighborhood when they are good and combine schools, day care centres and jobs, for example. Then bike paths will be very valuable in the countryside, as well as in the cities. A very big solution for road safety from this government was also light-duty cars or youth cars, which are likely to replace mopeds very quickly, because the price of the right car, whose speed is limited, is about the same as that of the current moped, and this right car, however, has today several airbags, non-locked brakes, skids and so on, in the future also lane guards in these smaller cars and so on. I also very much welcome the fact that Parliament also improved road safety by increasing the maximum speed to 60. It will significantly eliminate traffic by-passes. It also eliminates the fact that even those who are already allowed to travel by the same age will not pass this, but will have the same maximum speed there, and, on the other hand, the crossings will speed up the flow of traffic. On the other hand, when I say that in urban areas and cities there is in any case a maximum speed of 40 km/h or in many places as much as 30 km/h, then, of course, this maximum speed does not affect there either.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u470	Mr President! I listened to the conversation from my office for a long time, and I thought I'd like to come up here on the main stage. First of all, I want to thank my colleagues. I have the right names here: representatives of Kaikkonen, Pirttilahti, Vikman, Elo, could have other names, in part Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u471	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u472	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u473	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u474	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u475	Three minutes was filled. Here's how it's done.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u476	Mr President! Now that the adverse effects of the taxi reform were discussed as surprising, at least I can say that there was nothing surprising about them. This taxi reform was perhaps the worst single piece of legislation in my own reign, because you knew that you were doing it and you voted for it just because you were in the government. Frankly, I am a little ashamed of this episode of the past, but in the future we will see what the opinion of the people on this taxi reform is, and I think that the centre party will especially feel it. At the end of this debate, I would like to defend the Finnish motorist a little bit. These discussions about banning internal combustion vehicles and drastic price increases have tended to upset and frighten people who need a car in their daily lives. These proposals by the officials of the Ministry of Transport are very raffle and I think it is irresponsible to bring such things up and cause market disruptions and unrest. Caring is already a state dairy cow. More than 8 billion taxes are collected from motoring, indirectly more, and only about 2 billion of them return to road maintenance. In fact, therefore, motoring is a major welfare producer, for if the approximately 6 billion were not in the state treasury, where would the 6 billion be cut? Now, if sudden movements are made, hasty or market failures are created in relation to this tax base and the tax base with such ill-considered statements, the consequences can be very serious for the economy. I find this ideological need to force electric cars into Finland particularly bad. Those cars are expensive and cheaper electric cars that people might buy are not suitable for Finland's distances and conditions. All in all, an electric car in its life cycle produces emissions quite proportionally to any other car and is therefore not more environmentally friendly, because something has to produce that electricity. Then: How are car taxes collected if the car tax is abolished for electric cars or completely, and when the electric car is not once refueled with fuel, then what will replace the high-return fuel tax when that fuel is not going there? There's a lot of questions that don't answer. I would suspect that there will again be satellite tracking plans for the next period in the desk of the officials of the Ministry of Transport to track and cash out drivers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u477	Vice-President Pekkarinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u478	Mr President! When Mr Kankaaniemi at least two, perhaps three times my name, reminds me of the Business Support Group and suggests that the Finns in that Business Support Group would have found a lot of things that could be taken away, business subsidies that should be reduced, even if I did not basically say what others would say about that working group, I have to tell them now. In that working group, the True Finns did not offer the first kind of support, which, in the opinion of the True Finns, should be reduced. There were additions, though. When I presented my first option as a qualifier, which was about 150 million, working worker Putkonen called me out in public that now that such cuts are being made to these and these subsidies and so forth. There was no aid at the time, nor in the second option where the cuts to business subsidies would have been significantly smaller. I am not going to continue this debate, but this is the amount that should remain in the truth. That is basically what this is all about. The second thing that comes up here time and again by the same political group, the Finns, is based on the idea or the idea that those who believe that Finland should take responsibility for the global climate issue, as if everyone would automatically agree with the Ministry of Transport and Communications' working group on the taxation of motor vehicles. At least we do not think what that working group has said. For example, last night I told you that I am definitely not in favour, as Mr Kangasniemi remembers, of such proposals. We have every opportunity in Finland, an excellent opportunity to respond to the climate challenge in a way that feels and shows up. That is a good thing for us in many respects. As far as driving is concerned, too, as long as the electric car is not a real option, we can continue along the road that I started before, when the legal requirement was laid down that a blending obligation should be introduced and gradually a renewable component should be added to the fuel. And as Mr Kalmari said very recently here, these various bio-wastes and wood-based raw materials are now not only present, but plastic waste is also becoming an increasingly important raw material for the construction of transport biofuels. We also have an opportunity in transport to move along and in rapid steps, even faster than the government is now proposing. By the way, until now, neither the previous government nor this government has actually brought into force the first thing that means more renewables, but now the government has been allowed to act in Parliament and some of those measures have already been adopted here. Mr President! A number of speeches have drawn attention to an extremely important issue when talking about these broadband projects. And now, Mr President, I must say with sadness that the government has not responded to its cries. 2008 introduced a law on broadband for all. The starting point was that commercial operators build in centres, they had to build, and that in unprofitable areas the state and the EU support and the municipalities themselves are also funding them. This happened in different parts of Finland, including Central Finland, but these commercial operators did not come into the competition. Cushion, little wiener shop, came along, got in trouble. After that, the municipalities there set up a joint company that carried out these municipal projects, but it had accumulated so much cargo that when it came to the stage when the Ministry of Transport and Communications had to pay for that state aid and EU aid, it was considered, listening to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, that this could not be paid for, that there would be too much state aid. Like Pylkönmäki or the villages of Multia or Kivijärvi, scattered villages, a private entrepreneur would ever compete with a broadband project under construction there. Mr President! I have to blame my own government and my own ministers, but I have to do it. I have to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u480	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u481	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u482	Mr President! I will sign everything Mr Pekkarinen has said. It was only very briefly that I intervened in this matter. One last thing I'd like to do is raise the bliss of this electric car. So electric cars are certainly the future, but we must remember that they are not a factor in short-term climate policy decisions. For one thing, they cannot spread so fast that solutions can be found. Secondly, you have to drive 100,000 kilometres before the electric car changes from the source to the positive side. And thirdly, it is very important how it was produced. Helsingin Energia, for example, produces 10 per cent of the country's electricity but 42 per cent of Finland's electricity emissions. What good is it if we switch to coal-produced electricity instead of using, say, renewable fuel, which, fortunately, today is not much more expensive? And it is actually quite comical that it is in households that attempts have been made to switch from electricity to other forms of energy, and now this electricity would be somehow blissful. That is a good thing if electricity is produced with renewables, but not otherwise. In my first speech, I still forgot to compliment the government on the fact that this government has remembered not only the basics but also the private ways. If we look at the starting point from where this government left off: there was really only a million dollars in private roads. Well, at least there was a section. We started to raise it steadily, and now we have 17 million per year available for the maintenance of private roads. Of course, it must be remembered that roughly the same amount of private goods is paid in the form of value added tax to society, which means that there is practically no aid there at the moment, but in the previous period no aid was received from the State and, on top of all good, taxes were paid. This is something that must also be taken care of during the next term of government. For example, all timber traffic leaves from there along forest cars and private roads, and if the tree does not move, this Finland will not be able to stand.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u483	Mr President! Mr Pekkarinen made an important speech. It was interesting to hear a review of this Broadband for All project. I myself remember when this started in 2008 and since then the importance of the project has been taken care of and we have been annoyed by its slow progress. Sweden has achieved significantly better than Finland has done to promote broadband issues. That's where we could take inspiration and learn. Broadband for all is nevertheless an important project. Many industries depend on information technology, and it also enables teleworking, which is ecological. Mr Pekkarinen explained the situation and distress of the municipalities that have taken off to implement this broadband project. It is very important that we examine this difficult situation for the municipalities and how the state can help and promote it. On that report by the Committee on Finance: I have drawn attention to the fact that the financing of the Cybersecurity Centre may be inadequate. This is an issue that must definitely be invested in in the coming period. Mr Kalmari was thinking about electric cars and, in fact, I myself have been thinking about the need for an explanation of the extent to which electric cars should be promoted. Of course, electric cars are energy efficient. In Norway, they have been promoted in such a way that very many cars are just an electric car. But I also see concerns about what all the excavations are used in battery technology and battery chemicals. And, of course, electricity must then be renewable electricity, so that the electric car is sufficiently ecological. But all the same, I can see that electric cars are one part of the ecological aspect of motoring and that is something that should be promoted, as the government has done, and the Greens are also in favour of this. But I would also like to speak warmly about the fact that we must have more support for biogas and biogas production in general. We have enormous potential here, and it would also improve the business opportunities of rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u484	Madam President! Transport is one of the biggest emitters of CO2 emissions and perhaps the most challenging entities that we need to address, as perhaps this report from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and the resulting so-called riot in the media, will indicate. We need to move from fossil to renewable energy, and this can be done, for example, through fuel blending obligations, electrification of transport, service diversification and then more efficient public transport. It is certainly the case that all these solutions must be put in place, and there will not be a single solution. But even in these previous speeches — Mr Kalmari and Mr Karimäki — these challenges of electrification have been highlighted, among other things, in relation to the current technology, the lifespan of batteries and the availability of minerals for batteries, the number of charging points, and also extreme weather conditions and coldness may pose a whole new challenge for electric cars. And, after all, the market will determine how the price of electric cars will fall and then possibly become possible for ordinary citizens and people, so that the price will then be at the level of normal cars. This is where Mr Karimäki very well pointed out this possibility of gas cars, and I hope that it will be possible to invest in it, especially next season, because it has not yet been addressed in the broadest possible way. It also has huge potential in terms of its fuel efficiency, but it will require a lot more gas refuelling points here in Finland, so that biogas cars can travel around Finland here in the country of our big distances. There is already conversion aid for this gas-fired conversion of cars, which is not very expensive, in other words it is a good opportunity to reduce these emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u485	Madam President! Vice-President Pekkarinen has just raised a very important issue in relation to the Broadband for All project and the problems it poses in Central Finland. I'll sign everything Mr. Pekkarinen said about this. In my opinion, the FICORA has not acted properly in this regard, and it would still be appropriate to find a solution to ensure that these small municipalities, which are already in financial difficulties, do not get into excessive difficulties, even in crisis situations, as a result of this situation. Mr Kalmari here raised an important issue: the private roads and the future of wood maintenance. In addition to this vast network of private roads and forest management roads, which we have largely managed by forest owners' own resources, it is also important, of course, that our network, the quieter sections of the track and the maintenance of wood for the forestry industry. It has now become apparent in recent years that the Finnish Transport Agency is trying to cut down on powder houses, timber loading sites, especially along quieter sections of the railway line. This is, in my view, completely inconsistent with all the climate objectives. On the contrary, wood transport should be transferred from rubber wheels to the tracks whenever possible, because it is climate-friendly and, of course, it is also an opportunity for the functioning of the wood market and for forest owners to obtain a fair market price for their own wood, which they themselves supply, processing wood. In order for it to become a reality, it is important that the network can be efficiently used throughout the country to transport wood for processing into units in the forest industry. Indeed, the Finnish Transport Agency has done this on its own. The Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, has said that there is no political guidance and pressure on this, so I believe that these loading places must be maintained, refurbished to ensure that timber and timber transport throughout the country are adequately secured and that the fair functioning of the timber market is ensured.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u486	Mr President! I think this broadband issue is very critical in five regions of Finland. Central Finland is — not just north, there is, among other things: Luhanka from quite the south — in this very difficult situation, and in this respect I agree with the criticisms made by the Vice-President and also by Mr Honkonen. The government has not taken advantage of the opportunities it would have to deal with this issue in these municipalities, which have acted in accordance with the government's policy and decisions and have then fallen into the immensely deep plight that threatens those people with financial distress that live in these municipalities. It is already bad, and this situation will make it worse. Mr President! These business subsidies. I mentioned the name of this working party in accordance with the leader. I do not blame it any more in itself. All the parties were involved. However, the policy of the Finns Party is not made by a working person of the party office, but a parliamentary group is strongly involved in it. We had some problems with membership, representative. Vähämäki was an alternate member there and, of course, had its own problems in that regard, but when, for example, I had a discussion with Mr Vähämäki, we said that a programme of three to five years should be made, for example, to cut the financial aid evenly so that we can reach a certain agreed level and, for example, the election promise that was made by the Centre and the Coalition Party and the SDP to the people. Our parliamentary group would not have caught it, and this should be done. And with the presentation I made earlier, the money would be saved if the industry were used to improve transport routes, an excellent investment in the future and the vitality of the nation. Now, of course, the question remains as to whether the promise of this reduction in trade subsidies by these parties still stands, and what is the line after the forthcoming elections?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u487	Madam President! Briefly, I would like to say to the Greens that we did not support the introduction of these light-duty cars, which Mr Heinonen specifically mentioned in this debate, along with criticisms from the Greens. It is good to say here that I understand the point of view that moving from mopeds to cars limited to only 45 or 60 kilometres per hour can be justified by road safety. But in exactly the same way, Mr President, road safety can also justify not supporting the whole light car as an idea. In my former profession, I have heard so many presentations by the road safety industry, the police, the rescue services to young people about how life-threatening a gadget is a moped. Personally, I think that they should be banned by law, but I do not think it makes much sense for 16-year-olds to be transferred to the wheel of a car that weighs several tons or at least hundreds of kilos. Our long-term statistics show that the most dangerous driver in traffic — both for himself and others — is an 18-year-old young person who has just received a driving licence, usually a man, and these young people die in traffic this year and die last year, and unfortunately I am sure that they will die the most in the years to come. Well, these brilliant young people have been able to tune all their rides almost as fast as they want to. I do not really trust that a real car, even with a limiter, will only run 60 kilometres per hour at maximum, and I do not really trust that a 16-year-old driving wheel with that speed limiter will be safe for other drivers. In a small village where I live in Northern Ostrobothnia, there are no light traffic routes anywhere on the roads where small schoolchildren and six-year-olds already travel. And if those 16-year-olds who are now travelling by moped or bicycle, by car, which travels 60 km/h, I am sorry to say that I do not consider this equation to be the best for road safety. So there are also perfectly reasonable and justifiable reasons why this light-duty vehicle is not worth it, although I understand quite clearly the pressures that are being exerted on the mobility problems of young people living in rural areas in particular. On the other hand, it has to be said that there is an amazing number of them, even in urban and short distances, so if they are also replaced by cars, then at that point it is also a problem of transport emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u488	Värderade fru talman! Ledamot Pirttilahti pratade raus tidigare om utfallet av taxilagen och constaterade att allt inte gick som på Strömsö, och det är lätt att hålla med om den saken. Vi har i dag en location där den så kallade FPA-taxin inte fungerar. Det är inte enbart den nya taxilagens fel, men i alla fall finns det stora brister där, dirt som i tillgången till taxii på glesbygden. Det var helt klart att vi behövde förnya taxilagen, men nu när man kan konstatera att det finns klara brister tycker jag att regeringen brode se på den ox saken och vidta åtgärder för att korrigera de rauhbristerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u489	Madam President! Most of the trips carried by passenger cars are just a couple of kilometres long, so cycling or walking could be a much more sensible and faster way to move, especially in the urban area. Support for the conditions for walking and cycling will once again lead to this reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from transport, but also to good condition and a happy mind. What's more comfortable than riding a bike in that gutter rain?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u490	Madam President! After Mr Halmemenpää's intervention, I was moved to speak on this light-duty car. The other night, I think it was 1:40 a.m., when this matter was being discussed here at second reading. At the time, this was argued in quite a number of ways. This Green Group's idea that the whole light-duty car should not be legalised was here at a rather discussion forum. There were a lot of arguments. I am now challenging Mr Halmeenpää a little bit more that it is incomprehensible that we should now patronise young people in such a way that they are not allowed to do anything at all. At the moment, they're riding mopeds, tractors, mopeds, and for goodness sakes, which one of us always follows the traffic speeds, the 80s, the rain? Sometimes you might slip over a little bit. What happens then? Then the camera flashes, there's a fine. The same is true, ladies and gentlemen, for these mopeds, for mopeds and for the future, for these light-duty cars too. If they're speeding, they'll be fined. If they're illegal, then we'll punish them for being tuned. In the same way, a moped is put on the register when a moped is found there, which runs seventy. It is not possible to assume that, as a matter of principle, when they do not keep up with the things they do. Yes, this is an inconceivable guardianship. And in what way can it be justified to rather let two-wheeled mopeds or four-wheeled mopeds, when we still get, or fortunately get, much safer cars? A youth learns to drive in traffic with it. There's ABSs, there's airbags, there's a lot of side pillows. It's a lot safer. I know, ladies and gentlemen, how unsafe this moped is. Friends of their own family, two friends, passed away the other winter. Would a light-duty car have saved them? Most likely they would have survived. This is an important issue for us to understand that this is a safety issue and not a ban on young people today. Let them move, be in their own circles. It will also make it possible for people in rural areas, those young people, to move more safely into that city. I hope that this will also take into account the fact that when 45 kilometers an hour rises to 60, it will become considerably more smooth in traffic by-passing the car and emissions will also be reduced. It has also been explained in that report that when you do not have to drive in a pin all the time, the gas on the bottom, you will also achieve a slight reduction in emissions. Of course, young people often drive what is going on in the vehicle, but then you have to remember that you have to think ahead of safety. This is really a big project, and luckily we have a Minister of Transport like Berner,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u491	Madam President! I hope that, in spite of the emotional issue, the representatives and also Mr Hakanen listened to the fact that, at the beginning of my speech, I said just now that I understand the arguments, which is why moving from mopeds to cars at a limited speed is regarded as a road safety aspect. But I would ask you to show some sort of soul training to the understanding that when a young person, a 16-year-old, does not have quite the safety level of his experience in road traffic, like a person who has been on the road for 20 or 30 years, when he drives a vehicle that weighs several hundred pounds in traffic, he himself is safer in a car with airbags, but what about the other road users? On that I am not convinced whether it will be better or not for overall security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u492	It seems that we want to have a short debate on this. I will give you three answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u493	Madam President! I would just like to say to Mrs Halmemenpää that I did hear your point of view when it came to the opening speech, but those things were not exactly one-on-one, then gone side by side towards the end. Now that we are talking about safety, when 45 kilometers an hour reaches 60, it is the case that within the urban sign, where there are more pedestrians, there is less than 50 now, and if there are 60 cars there, road safety for pedestrians will be reduced. If you take a light car for 60, the road safety of pedestrians will be reduced. This is not about going from an angle to an angle on a street with a speed limit of 40, but it makes the traffic on a larger road smoother and safer. Yes, I trust the young person at that point, too, because they are, after all, driving those vehicles there — a tractor, a moped, a moped — and it is also a matter of home training, as well, in what way to train for that car’s wheel.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u494	Madam President! A speed-limited passenger car is safer than a moped. Of course, for that young person inside the car, it is better to drive a car with a safety-controlled speed limit than a moped, but you have to take the pedestrian's point of view into account. In addition, no pedestrian collision test is required for a moped, as is required for passenger cars. Passenger cars are required to protect pedestrians in the characteristics and design of, for example, bumpers and hoods. In the design of mopeds these have not been taken into account in the same way at all. In other words, even pedestrian safety has been better taken into account for passenger cars. On the other hand, from an environmental point of view, it is better that a speed-limited passenger car, when bought into a family, can be converted into a passenger car after the age of 18 by means of a conversion survey.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u495	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u496	Madam President! There are already a lot of good arguments for these limited cars. I will not go back to that, except from the point of view of the chairman of the parliamentary working group, but I would like to say that this matter is relevant, but I would have liked us to have been able to agree that a limited right to drive could have been introduced, because in sparsely populated areas there are no public means of transport which, for example, allow a young person to go into a conurbation or an elderly person to go into a conurbation if the ability to drive is no longer quite exhausted. There are very many other countries with such a limited right to drive. There may be restrictions on driving rights, e.g. during the day or when moving to and returning to a specific place. This has been the longest in use in the United States, Canada and Australia, but in many European countries, too, this limited right to drive exists. In my opinion, it would also promote longer stay at the home of older people and thus reduce the cost of society. This positive discrimination did not seem to be possible for any ministry, but I am pleased that, in the Council of Europe, we were given the impression that positive discrimination, particularly in sparsely populated areas, is desirable and desirable, so I would like to see that we can then return to this issue and learn from the countries where this has been successful. In other words, this would be a policy that would be assessed on a case-by-case basis and, for example, in a very sparsely populated area, this would be a good basis for granting it a limited right to drive.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u497	Mr President! Here earlier, Mr Blomqvist raised the issue of the reform of taxi legislation. In fact, by chance, I have made my own thesis on it when I graduated from the School of Business. At the beginning of the 21st century, the liberalisation of taxi legislation had already been clarified and the solution reached was not to liberalise the legislation, but now, at last, more than 10 years later, this solution was taken. It was, of course, very unfortunate that Kela's tendering process went wrong at the same time, and that, quite rightly, would have been much better done. On the other hand, I believe that the market will gradually adapt to this new legislation. For example, what still seems to be quite untapped is that we are now able to combine passenger and freight transport in a completely different way. It also creates entirely new opportunities for the transport of persons and goods in remote areas, for that business, and I believe that, while we move on, this market will become more and more healthy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u498	Madam President! I appreciate Mrs Halmemenpää's way of worrying about the safety of young people and road users. That's what we're all interested in. In this case of light cars, when we discussed it in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, it was particularly important for us that the future light car should be as new as possible, and the bill proposes and we have already decided that the light car can be the oldest of its models in 2014 and will be up to 10 years old in the future. This is precisely because the cars of these models have almost all the safety features of modern technology: automatic emergency braking performances and so on and so on and so forth, pedestrian identification and emergency braking functions in case someone bounces in front of the car. This was the reason why these age limits were put on these cars, and we believe that it will help to maintain the safety of young road users and also the safety of pedestrians.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u499	Madam President! I could not help but come back to this light car debate, because it is precisely this whole and the reform that has started from the fact that we want safer means of transport for young people on the road. Today, very dangerous, unsafe mopeds have been used by young people. We've had a number of fatal accidents. In addition to this, young people today have had traditional mopeds and scooters as an alternative, but then also different types of ATVs, which in fact already travel 60 km/h today. This reform was now adopted in Parliament with the unanimous support of the government parties, but the opposition also supported it. Only the Greens opposed safer means of transport for young people, i.e. the arrival of light cars, and there was also opposition from the Social Democrats. I am surprised, of course, that such a reform is not going to be adopted. The light cars — I prefer to talk about youth cars myself, it may give a more realistic and correct view of them — are real cars, with smaller overall mass, but their speed is therefore limited to 60 kilometres per hour. This change, which was made in the Parliament in terms of maximum speed, specifically improves road safety in situations such as the distance between a city or village centre or a rural community and a rural town, for example, to hockey practice, high school or professional school or ballet class, and when you start from there to this ring road or the main road, you get across the junction more smoothly when the speed of the car is better when the maximum speed is 60 km/h. This is also important in the sense that, as I pointed out earlier that we young people can now drive in the 80s of those ATVs, there would have been an absurd situation for an open ATV to be buzzed past these light-duty cars or youth cars. Now they are going to go at the same speed in the future. And these also have the attention - adding triangles in the back, which then tell the rest of the traffic that now the car is a light car, that is, a youth car that runs 60 kilometers an hour. I personally hope, Mr President, that in the future, there will also be a so-called'my key' or'smart key' system for these cars, so that when Dad goes to the store there, the car could run it at 80 or 100 or 100.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u500	Madam President! Much has been said today in this Chamber about railway projects. A lot of attention has been paid to the hour train towards Turku and the main railway project. Fortunately, however, many speakers have pointed out this fast east track, which is a very important project for Eastern Finland and Northern Finland. I hope that it will make good progress in this planning of railway projects when they are considered. Especially then from Kouvola forward between Luumäki and Lappeenranta is running a so-called double track improvement work between Luumäki and Lappeenranta—Imatra. And I hope that this will also move forward in a favourable way as planned. It would be particularly important for Imatra to carry out this line in such a way that this railway crossing between Imatra and Russia would be as modern as possible and could be internationalised and open to cross-border rail transport to its full extent. When all these major strategic railway projects are implemented in Finland, transport connections are significantly better for all Finns. In addition, of course, at this stage, it is worth reminding us of the turn of the Myttiönmäki on Highway 13, where a number of accidents have occurred this winter. It would be very important that the turn of Myttiönmäki on Savitaipalee should be corrected and made safer for all road users.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u501	Madam President! Safety for road users is an important objective and I will therefore return to the debate on light cars. When we take decisions, the safety assessment must always be made on the basis of the correct information, and, yes, the weighing of facts has clearly shown that the replacement of mopeds with speed-limited cars, that is to say light cars, increases the safety of all road users. I have already mentioned the necessity of pedestrian collision tests for cars, and these traditional collision tests are also mandatory for passenger cars, but they are not required at all for mopeds. In mopeds, the driver is only protected by a light plastic basket and a tube frame whose protection in the event of a collision is completely nonexistent compared to the safety of the car. There is also a lack of an ESC stability system to correct driver faults, which improves the control of the car and significantly reduces accidents. There are major differences between the brakes on mopeds and passenger cars. In mopeds, unlocked brakes are not mandatory, whereas in new passenger cars, ABS brakes have been mandatory since 2005. ABS brakes allow the car to be steered during braking, when, at best, the impact can be completely avoided much better under conditions than if there is a moped. In addition, it is significant that the emergency braking system has become more common in the smallest passenger cars as standard equipment since 2014, and this driver-independent emergency braking system will start braking the passenger car at its best clearly before the driver of the moped even gets to the brake pedal. From this point of view too, the committee's view that these restricted passenger cars must be sufficiently new to have these new safety features in place was important. This will achieve the objective of significantly improving the safety of all road users through this reform, which is a good reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u502	Mr President! In this debate on light-duty vehicles, I would like to reiterate the point of view which these light-duty vehicles may have from the perspective of two-wheeled vehicles. It is now the case that the motorcycle trade in our country has been downhill for years. The tightening of driving licence requirements has taken its own toll, and now that these light-duty cars are placed on the market, in fact, to replace the mopeds — in fact, the fact is that, in the light of statistics, a moped is far less dangerous than many people think, but a light-duty car is intended to replace mopeds — if the number of mopeds is reduced and the driving of mopeds is reduced, it is likely that it will also lead to a reduction in the number of motorcycling cards and a further decline in the motorcycle market. If this happens, it should be addressed, for example, by means of taxation, by reducing the fees for motorcycles and by reducing the taxes on motorcycles. We must continue to safeguard the conditions for motorcycling in Finland. I would like to comment to Mr Kopra on this issue of vt 13 and Myttiömäki that it would be very desirable for money to be made available for improvement at all. Of course, the first places at risk would have to be put in order. It is also an important road for the transport of the wood industry. And I must say to this dual track that this double track in south-east Finland is no longer really a double track, because there the funding fell to less than half. Now it is, in fact, a partial double track and a partial rail basic improvement, and there is currently a situation in which the state is laundering its noise protection from the municipalities, so there is still a need for more money to make it a double track.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u503	Madam President! Rail transport in Finland is still an untested mode of transport in the sense that we certainly have a lot to do. From Moscow to St. Petersburg you can travel 500 miles [800 km] in just over four hours. Why not make more rapid rail transport opportunities available in Finland? This season the Taavetti—Imatra dual track will be completed, and it is an excellent change and reform, and also this eastern track, which came up in this debate, is now on the planning table, and it is very important, although it sounds as if it has not been on display as much as the hour train to and from Turku. But if you look at the significance of the east track, then you can immediately find St.Petersburg and St.Petersburg directly at Helsinki-Vantaa Airport at the end of the same track. This might also be of interest to Vantaa’s decision-makers. And this Porvoo-Kouvola route would shorten the East Passage fairly, so they will be available to all cities in Eastern Finland. This would also be a very important issue to move forward as quickly as possible and on those investment lists.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u504	Mr President! It is easy to agree with what Mr Kosonen and Mr Koprank have said before about how this eastern track would be an important and important project, and I hope that it will be widely taken forward together. Just as much as we have the other major railway projects, the development of the main railway line north of there as well as the one-hour train project, and everyone is of the type that if we can get rail traffic in order, even faster, between these big cities and between the cities along the way, we will be better able to reduce transport emissions. And I really hope that, although we know that there are quite a lot of these projects going on at the same time, we could also think about the innovative financial means by which we will ensure that we make rapid progress on these projects and do not have to wait for even decades. We all know that the amount of investment money that is needed is enormous in relation to what we have in place, and when we also know that, as far as basic infrastructure is concerned, a huge amount of money goes into the repair of the basic infrastructure, then we should be able to develop such innovative new solutions for how we finance these. But in addition to these rail projects, I would also like to remind you of the transversal train connections. Unfortunately, we in Finland have relatively poor cross-rail connections. The use of the train would be quite convenient if we left Joensuu for Jyväskylä or then Tampere and Turku, so it would be important that we also take care of these cross-links. And from the students’ point of view, it is extremely important that the train traffic works and, for example, the University of Eastern Finland is able to come and, from there, we can go to Jyväskylä, Tampere or Oulu to study. Fortunately, we have this system of compulsory transport that the state buys certain train services where the number of passengers is otherwise low. We must invest in this, because we cannot simply compare absolute traffic volumes, but we should think about the relative importance of these connections to the inhabitants of the region, that is to say, the purchase of compulsory transport from that point of view and not just the calculation of these absolute users.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u505	Madam President! Actually, it's here. From Mr Mikkonen's speech, it is good to continue with what should be made even more effective in the next period: the MAL agreements for land use, housing and transport. During this term of government, they were also opened for the first time on these so-called growth corridors, which are also very much in line with the development of the main lines, and now we need to take care of it — and perhaps in part it also opens up this funding channel and the financing model, which Mikkonen also called for — to conclude sufficiently binding MAL agreements with the railway-side cities. This will also lead to a sufficient number of passengers on these trains and a more efficient use of the stems. There has also been a lot of discussion in this debate about whether Tampere will be able to reach Helsinki in less than an hour or Turku in less than an hour, but then we must remember that there are also significant people living there, and in fact they are also in a big picture for the success of this country. It is also necessary to provide rapid and efficient transport connections. From my own province Hämeenlinna is one example, Riihimäki is another example, which in a certain way are little in the middle, which means that local transport still does not serve those areas well enough, and we need to get faster train connections, and we need to get there in less than an hour to Helsinki and so on. Then we will make this whole work. I agree entirely with Mr Mikkonen on this cross-border transport as well. One of the most important pieces missing there is the connection from Riihimäki to Forssa and from it to Pori and Turku, which should also be made with such a policy rather than from Helsinki to Forssa and beyond. Then the rail link would go to virgin land, which would give room for growth but, on the other hand, would create a genuine east-west rail link in this country, which is missing. This one VR professional for me several years ago drew and presented very accurately, and to Pori it meant about 10 minutes longer if it went this alternative route. In other words, its benefits are significant and it would not really be named after Pori.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u506	Mr President! I have experience of this transversal train traffic when we have a cabin in Eastern Finland and in SuomiAreena for a couple of years I have travelled there, and I can assure you that there is improvement in those connections. Indeed, the journey is not fast, and in fact, while the speed limits are reasonably low, it goes even faster because of many changes and slow track connections. But now I'd like to catch a little from Congressman Kosonen's ball. Of course, we are interested in all transport projects in Vantaa, and so should the whole of Finland. We need to get to Vantaa quickly, because we have the only truly international airport in Vantaa, and I believe it is in the interests of Finland as a whole to get to the airport fast and hopefully as free as possible, so fast rail connections to the airport are also very important. And we will. We hope that the state and the MAL agreements will also invest in our internal rail connections in Vantaa during the next parliamentary term, and we believe that it will also enable us to prevent and reduce segregation. Rail connections are therefore important both between cities and between urban areas and larger cities as well as within cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-12-19-ps-134.u507	Mr President! Finally, long road connections certainly bring vitality especially to the capital region, but transversal connections bring vitality to the regions. Perhaps the most important cross-sectional connection after all is Ysiväylä, which means that there is a Ysitie and a track that connects five university cities: Turku, Tampere, Jyväskylä, Kuopio, Joensuu, and why not Petrozavodsk yet. And it is also important to develop it, because it brings vitality to the rest of Finland and at the same time connects from Inner Finland to Europe through Turku. I myself have been involved in Pro Ysitie for a long time now, and I think it would be one of the projects that is important to be aware of when it comes to transversal connections.
