ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u1	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 27 February 2018. In the debate, Sari Tanus Antero Laukkanen has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u2	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer is now given by Mr Touko Aalton and others. on equal opportunities in education and training for the signatories to the intermediate question VK 1/2018. After the Government's answer, there will be a debate on the interim issue. The first speaker for the debate is Mr Touko Aalto. There will then be a rapid part of the debate, allowing group speeches to take up to 5 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. I'm asking the ministers to move to the Council of Ministers. Minister Grahn-Laasonen will respond to the interlocutory question. — Please do not exceed 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u3	Mr President! Dear Parliament! Finland is known for our equal comprehensive school. We're proud of it. The story of 100-year-old Finland is a story of a people who, throughout their national history, have been determined to extend access to education and to build equal opportunities. The whole Finnish society — and I dare say, Parliament too, all of us here — is committed to equality in education. The desire to build equal pathways of education for every child and young person regardless of their background is common, it does not distinguish us. "Strengthening basic skills will lay the foundations for The promise of equality in comprehensive school must include ensuring that all children and young people and their skills are taken care of and preventing segregation." This is how a team of researchers is writing, whose expertise is currently being developed in Finnish comprehensive school. Finland has many undisputed strengths as a educational country: Finnish society values education, research and education. We have a strong reading culture. We have the best, highly educated teachers in the world, whom society appreciates and who have exceptionally wide educational freedom internationally. Finland has succeeded in combining excellent learning outcomes and equality. There is no need to choose a school in Finland. The differences between schools are the second smallest in the world. The share of low-skilled people in Finland is lowest in EU countries, both in literacy, science and mathematics. Our teachers do excellent work in schools. Each family must continue to have confidence that their local school will provide world class education. Finland must be the country where the nearest school is the best school. Studying must never be hindered, where a child has been born, what kind of home conditions or the starting points for learning. The training guarantee is strictly adhered to. A secondary education place is guaranteed for everyone. Every form of education is a path forward. Everyone has access to a free university degree. The government is committed to these principles. Finland will continue to be built on these strengths. The rapid change in the world, technological development and the growing and specialised skills needs of working life challenge education and training systems around the world. The importance of strong basic skills and knowledge emerges clearly in the change. General education, extensive thinking skills and ability and desire to learn new things are needed. Versatile literacy, mathematical skills and language skills provide the basis for building on your own strengths and needs. The change also highlights the potential for updating skills. That is why the government has invested in conversion training and is now looking for new models for continuous learning and meeting skills needs. Mr President! The starting points of comprehensive school were created at a time that looked very different from today's Finland. Our population base has varied, children’s family backgrounds and learning conditions vary by a number of standards. For example, 7 per cent of comprehensive school pupils speak non-Finnish, Swedish or Sami as their mother tongue — and the number is growing rapidly. In addition, the impact of home and other growth environments on learning outcomes has increased. Technology opens up new opportunities for learning, but today's primary school competes for the attention of children and young people in the midst of an unprecedented flood of knowledge and entertainment. The material of the latest Pisa survey was collected in spring 2015, just when the previous government concluded its work. The results showed clear warning signals for equality in comprehensive school: learning differences between girls and boys, the importance of social background and regional differences. In the learning results, Finland’s peak year in Pisa was 2006. Since then, the score has been downhill, although still at the top. The government takes the fall in learning outcomes and the concerns of equality very seriously. The problems have been known for a long time, but only has this government really begun to reform comprehensive school. All activities related to comprehensive school have been designed together with the best experts, researchers, teachers, municipalities and parents. Comprehensive school must be developed in a consistent, research-based and long-term way — not for Pisa or other rankings, but for the best interests of our children. Experts stress that the operating environment of schools has changed permanently. Children's differentiated backgrounds and baselines require more individual attention both in curricula and in school life. Mr President! This government began its work in a difficult economic situation. Finland was heavily indebted. Savings were made in all sectors, but basic funding for comprehensive school was protected. New curricula were introduced from autumn 2016. Despite the difficult economic situation, the government reserved EUR 90 million in additional funding for comprehensive school. The most significant part of this additional funding will be devoted to additional training and support for teachers. The new curricula highlight comprehensive learning entities, future skills, the joy and motivation of learning. Only a well-being child learns. The school is being developed as an experimental, learning community. The Teacher Training Forum renews the initial and continuing training of teachers. EUR 50 million will be allocated to teacher training. Similar development funding has not been available for teacher training for more than 10 years. The work of comprehensive school teachers is now supported by 2300 tutor teachers who help other teachers to use the new curriculum and new working methods. The State finances tutoring activities with EUR 26 million. The Government has doubled the funding for equality in comprehensive school for this year's budget. According to researchers, it is an impressive way of supporting schools in challenging areas. More teachers and school assistants can be hired with this grant. In addition, the government decided to assist municipalities with less resources to develop training by 10 million. In experiments in language teaching, 25,000 children have been admitted to earlier language learning. Further funding of EUR 5 million will be used to promote studies in science and mathematics. The Literacy Forum will develop guidelines to promote literacy and reading. The Multiliteracy Programme promotes literacy in early childhood education, pre-primary and primary education. The pilot centre operating under the Finnish National Board of Education supports development work with grants of EUR 14 million. The role of boys from the perspective of equality is currently being studied by researchers through TEAS funding. The study will be completed during spring 2018. We have also decided to launch a wide-ranging evaluation of special education. Mr President! Another clear message from the experts is that the school alone cannot meet the challenges as it did before. The responsibility for education cannot be outsourced, but our society can be made more child-oriented and family-friendly. The diverse service system of our welfare society must be made to work better together. We need to work together on the role of sending from one bone to another, and we need to prevent them from correcting the problems. Support for children, young people and families must include day-care centres, maternity clinics, schools, youth services, child protection, social and health care, sports services, cultural activities and libraries together. Society as a whole must act for the well-being of children and young people. So the government is already doing the things that the child’s representative emphasised last week. It is these objectives that are being pursued in the Government's programme of changes in child and family services. Mr President! The Government has also decided on a programme under point 19 to promote the well-being of children and young people, to prevent exclusion and to reduce the number of young people outside education and employment. This will also support the implementation of equality in education and training. The Government has created a new educational model for reading and writing skills for immigrants at folk high schools and adult education centres. Basic education for adults has also been completely reformed. These measures will contribute to equality, in particular for immigrants. Research-based knowledge of the importance of early childhood education and early years for the child has grown enormously. The effects of early childhood education are reflected in learning outcomes and education choices for a long time in life. It is early childhood education that can best balance the background differences between children that can lead to difficulties later on. The Government has set the goal of increasing the participation rate of early childhood education. Early childhood education payments were reduced by EUR 70 million. Payments for the family of two children on average income will decrease by more than EUR 1200 per year from the beginning of this year. 6,700 new families were fully covered by free early childhood education. The Government added EUR 28 million to the development of the personnel structure of early childhood education. Among other things, that money will provide 1,000 new university - trained teachers in kindergartens. The Government commissioned experts to draw up a road map for the future of early childhood education. This is the direction to be followed when a new law on early childhood education comes under discussion during the spring. The aim of the Act is to give priority to the best interests of the child and to raise the level of training of the staff. The most important factor in the quality of early childhood education is skilled and multiprofessional staff. Mr President! The reform of vocational education and training, which entered into force at the beginning of the year, will reduce the drop-out of education and the marginalisation of young people. The new financing model requires that educational institutions take care of each student. Personalisation of studies means that the need for individual support can be better taken into account on everyone's learning path. Reform also offers opportunities for continuous learning throughout the career. There are approximately three places for vocational education and training at the end of four comprehensive schools, although about half of them choose vocational education and training, half of which are students. In addition, when starting places for upper secondary schools, the supply is sufficient for the entire age group — the education month has been made to work in Finland. As a general rule, secondary education can be completed from a childhood home. A total of EUR 60 million has been allocated to support the implementation of the reform until 2020. The upper secondary school, which prepares for further studies, will also be renewed. According to research, Finnish upper secondary schools provide good education throughout the country. The government is now bringing special education to all upper secondary schools. Personal guidance is increased and the responsibility for guidance is extended also after upper secondary school. The Government has also commissioned an analysis of the costs of secondary education. In further work, specific measures are now being sought so that no one is hindered by wealthlessness. The reform of university student choices will facilitate the transition to higher education and reduce the impact of the background on choice and access to higher education. These reforms have also been carefully drafted, listening to experts and researchers and paying particular attention to equality. Mindful hobby activities prevent exclusion, strengthen self-esteem, support learning, promote well-being. The Government wants to enable each child and young person to have at least one pleasant hobby. In particular, the preparatory hobby passport will help disadvantaged young people. We also promote hobby activities in schools and day care centres. The key project of art and culture has already brought 60,000 leisure lessons directed by professionals to children and young people. One in five participants has received a new hobby there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u10	Thank you. — Then the first signatory of the interim question, Mr Aalto, please. — 15 minutes maximum.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u11	Madam President! Finland's success story is primarily about the power of education, the story of the victory of equality and civilisation by which this nation has been raised from poverty. Finland has been built with the idea that every child must have the right to move forward in his or her life, that every child's dreams are equally important and that no school path must be determined by home background or wealth. That is not the way this country has followed because the road is easy. That is the path we have followed because it is right. It has taken looking forward and courage to follow that course. We must have the same courage today if we are to manage to take care of the legacy we have inherited. Mr President! We have traveled a long and sometimes rocky road from school to the present comprehensive school system. The idea of comprehensive school was born around one big observation: the Finnish education system was clearly lagging behind the rest of Western Europe, and one of the reasons for this was the social inequality confirmed by the parallel school system of that time. When the problem was discovered, the repair work was carried out with the seriousness it required. As a result of the work in the 1970s, Finland moved to a free comprehensive school system. The aim was to ensure equal starting points for all children in the course of learning. Mr President! We have enjoyed the reputation and honor of primary school for nearly 50 years. We have raised one of the most competent peoples in the world. The children of the tailor have grown up to be doctors and scientists. The world wonders how we did it. The gap between educated and uneducated older children has been narrowed up to the last decades. Now, however, that development has broken down, and worse still, it has turned in the wrong direction. The Finnish education system — the miracle of Finland — is in danger and is responsible for it by the government of this country, which, having failed to deliver on its promises, has made historic major cuts to every aspect of the educational path. The cuts have been so large that their effects are felt in the everyday lives of the entire age group, each child. Mr President! Last week, Mr Kurttila, the Ombudsman for Children, handed over to Parliament a report on the rights of Finnish children and the state of well-being. According to the Ombudsman for Children, we are living in a state of underachievement of the welfare state. We will not succeed in the central role of the welfare state. We will not be able to raise vulnerable children to prosperity, talent and social rise at a sufficient level. We are heading towards a child-class society in which uneducated education is inherited. A tailor’s child will no longer become a doctor or researcher as likely as before. The government is punching stamps at the early childhood education stage, where children can no longer participate equally. Regional inequalities are increasing as part of municipalities' subjective day care rights are limited and part of them not. In Helsinki, the child of the unemployed is entitled to full-time early childhood education, not in Oulu. To quote the Ombudsman for Children: "It is not in the best interests of the child to have legislation that explicitly underscores the importance of the child's family background." This will not be heard by the government, even if all the world’s professors say this in one choir. The same policy that this government is targeting on the unemployed in the country also applies to the children of the unemployed. Mr President! In addition to this, we are in a situation where learning differences are growing. Gender learning differences are the largest among OECD countries, i.e. the largest among OECD countries. We are moving towards a child’s class society in a situation where family income and parental education affect the child’s learning outcomes. One son in eight — I stress: one son in eight — cannot read properly after comprehensive school. It's a national emergency. Nevertheless, the government has cut off the schools. Teachers have their hands full, and they don't hire replacements everywhere anymore. The government also consciously weakened the quality of early childhood education by increasing ratios to allow eight children aged over 3 per adult. Here, too, local inequality is highlighted, as some municipalities have decided not to increase group ratios to the maximum permitted by law. In Jyväskylä, the nurse has more time to hold the child than in Kempelee, as In Kempele, one adult is responsible for more children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u22	The next item is the group speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u23	Madam President! The story of comprehensive school began in Lapland and North-East Finland in the early 1970s. I was then given the opportunity and the right to be among the first children to attend primary school from the fourth grade. Twenty years later, I returned to comprehensive school as a teacher. The school was different from my childhood school, but the society around it was different. The school has been involved in the transformation of society, but the most valuable principles are still the same. The Finnish education system is one of the most equals in the world. Comprehensive school has managed to smooth out differences in children’s starting points. The differences between our schools are small in international comparisons and we do not have level groups. Also, the child’s background does not affect the type of education he or she can receive. Children and young people who have difficulties in learning and schooling will receive additional support. For the best education in the world, thank you our higher education teachers, education and education professionals. Teachers take their assignment with their hearts in commitment. They are eager, innovative and ready to develop themselves and the school and at the same time the Finnish education system to be better and alive in time. Instead, the intermediate question refers to tired teachers who are ‘trying to provide quality education’. I think this is an unfortunate interpretation by the opposition of the best teachers in the world. [Heckling] Mr President! The foundation of safe and equal education is created at the beginning of the learning path. In the center we have designated the first years of study, preschool and the first two classes, as a school for young children. It must ensure the basis of the child’s social skills, learning capacities and important subjects, such as mathematics and mother tongue. The achievement of sufficient skills takes place at an individual pace, so moving from one class to another and receiving additional support must be based on the needs of the child. Thus, if necessary, the school for young children is flexible in time. We have to give the child time to learn. A home and a school must interact in the best interests of the child and the child. When we invest in the first years of the school path, the child gets the best starting point for the path of lifelong learning. Local school must always be the best school for a child. The city centre doesn't approve of school segregation. Comprehensive schools, upper secondary schools and other educational institutions must not be divided into good and bad. Unfortunately, signs of differentiation are already in sight. The Centre believes that this differentiation must be prevented, for example, by channelling additional funding to schools where there are challenges, such as high unemployment or low levels of education. The principle of equality also includes free training. We are concerned about the increased study costs of secondary students. Every young person must have the opportunity to complete a secondary degree and support schemes must enable this to happen. Mr President! The Centre has proposed the development of an accessibility plan for higher education. Higher education must continue to be accessible to all young people regardless of family background, gender or place of residence. Only in this way can we continue to be a country in which the heritage of education can be broken and every person can use his or her own skills and skills for the benefit of himself and others. According to the OECD, Finland has been able to address the inheritance of a low level of education. Compared to the international community, a young person in Finland has a high probability of completing a university degree even if his or her parents do not have it. Few developed countries can do the same. This good achievement must continue to be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u24	Mr President! It is important for the assembly that everyone, regardless of their family background or place of residence, has the opportunity to train and build his own path. Everyone must have the opportunity to find his or her own strength and influence his or her own life. No one's background alone can determine what he can become. The review is the mother of the studies. The interim question put by the opposition is the fourth in its order of importance for education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u44	Mr President! This year, the starter of comprehensive school throws canals or receives a vocational qualification in 2030. This year’s births dream of a university degree sometime in the 2040s. A basic decision on an equal comprehensive school was made in this hall 55 years ago, but the first generation of comprehensive school received a certificate of leaving more than 20 years after that decision, in the 1980s. Education policy is therefore always a generation policy. The effects of today’s actions and decisions echo decades away and affect children who may not even have been born yet. The decisions we make or do not take today on equality in education have a direct impact on Finland in the 2050s. The SDP is convinced that education is our destiny. Finland’s success and global position are built on equal education, research, education and knowledge. Mr President! The question of the interim is raised when it is estimated that the country is being taken in the wrong direction, that the decisions of the government or the individual minister are wrong. Today I will focus on evaluating the Government and the Minister of Education's policies, particularly in the light of the researcher's assessment. The Economic Policy Evaluation Council chaired by Professor Roope Uusitalo focused in particular on education and training in its January report. The Council makes it a top priority for everyone to complete at least secondary education. Researchers highlight an alarming figure last year: 16% of young people aged 25 depend on primary school alone, and as many as 40% do not participate in education or work. So it is only primary school that too often excludes young people from everything. We need to change this direction, and we need reform decisions. In the past, the success story of Finnish society has taken courage when reforms have first been opposed. Since then, reforms have less often been criticised.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u47	President! It is extremely important that there is a wide-ranging social debate on education policy. The cuts made during the last two parliamentary periods have left their mark, but we must remember that we still have a functioning and internationally respected education system. Its foundation has been equality, free of charge and overall coordination. Compared to the world, our education system is still one of the best. The learning results are among the best in the EU, the differences between schools are small, and the impact of the family background is limited – in line with the EU's education comparison. Many of the problems raised in the intermediate issue, such as the inheritance of education, regional disparities and gender learning differences, are worrying and require action. However, they will not be resolved during one interim debate, but will require long-term and planned development work. [ Hulls from left — SpongeBob Arhinmäki interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u52	Mr President! In the opinion of Finns, high-quality education has always been one of the cornerstones of Finnish society. Our equal education system has been the basis for the development and civilisation of our country for a long time. A fine and unique education system has faced many challenges. There was a recession in the '90s and an economic collapse in 2008. The operations have tested Finnish education during several Government term periods. We have an education system that we can be proud of, but for how long? The world is changing at a rapid pace and we must be able, as a nation, to remain at the forefront of development also in the field of education. The equality of Finns is now also under test in education. Mr President! Education is an investment in the future. Our education system must be high-quality, comprehensive, equitable and adaptable. Education must be developed on the basis of research data and the reform work must be continuous. The funding of Finnish education, or rather the lack of it, has long been the subject of political debate. In justifying these cuts, governments have appealed to the downward national economy cones. The economic outlook is brighter than it was in a long time, so it would now be possible for the government to show how much it appreciates education. But no, the current government sees education as a saving place rather than an investment. Mr President! Finland's success in the Pisa studies has faded. Literacy and arithmetic skills are not at the level of previous age groups. As a result of a shortage of resources, for example, the size of teaching groups in basic education has grown too large in some places, resulting in the loss of education, learning outcomes and peace in schools. The Finns have wanted to keep the sizes of teaching groups small enough to improve learning outcomes. There have also been too many landings of special groups when pupils in need of support have been transferred to groups of ordinary basic education. Smaller groups will also be better able to secure the teaching of pupils in need of special support. In our alternative budget, we have just allocated more resources to reduce group sizes. Group sizes are already a threat in early childhood education. It is obvious that if there is a shortage of hand pairs, it is not possible to meet the objectives of early childhood education. There's no such thing as a harrowing pomp. The success of school is influenced by both physical and mental well-being. With this in mind, the Finnish Parliament Group has already allocated additional funding in its own alternative budget to support the exercise of children with limited means. Mr President! True Finns are also concerned about the state and future of vocational education and training. Last year, around 13% of the funding was cut. The reform of vocational education and training is an extremely important project. We are concerned about the success of such a major reform with current resources without the suffering of education and students. Saving from local education is a dangerous path, especially from the point of view of young people at risk of exclusion. In vocational school reforms, companies have a great responsibility as organisers of traineeships. This can cause serious problems, particularly in certain areas of education. The Finns of Finland are promoting regional equality across the board. This also applies to education policy. Regions must not be discriminated against as a result of the concentration of training. For example, low - maintenance high schools are being driven to a dead end. How will educational equality be achieved when some of our young people are inaccessible? Secondary school reform and reform of the university selection test system are also pressing issues from the point of view of educational equality. Our education system has traditionally been a gold mine in our country. In addition to the high level of education, it has enabled economic development. In the eyes of the individual, it has been a gateway to the Finnish dream. Work and will have been able to achieve a better life, regardless of family background — from drinking to riches. Schools are also important for community and participation. The school has provided many children and young people with a sense of importance, you are needed for -philing — you are needed. Over the years, the various areas of education have been cut too much, and this process must not continue. This is the future of Finland and Finnish children and young people, as well as the status of teachers in the game. Greetings from a couple of teachers — including many others, hundreds and thousands of teachers and students and parents — namely, that social work is being done for the teacher very much today. Is that also part of their job description? On the basis of the above, Mr President, and
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u53	Mr President! This government has not listened to the teachers' cry about the state of education in our country. In this debate, too, the Prime Minister's Party underestimated the concerns of teachers, so I would like to vote first on them: ‘Teachers in schools are in distress as in There is no time for increasing workload, and fatigue threatens many. Moreover, the salary does not correspond to the work done and is far too low.” ‘Teacher-to-teacher-to-heavenary borders. A lot of people are thinking about changing careers. I am changing my business, because I am tired of the present.” ‘Category sizes have grown:more unease, pupils can obtain less specific and special assistance for their own ‘Every year, a greater number of young people So this is what Finnish teachers and nannyes think about today in this country, which has been built on education for a hundred years. This is an emergency cry, and the government must listen to it. In addition to heavy government training cuts, the ability of teachers to survive is also gnawed by kiky cuttings. Today is a historic strike at the University of Helsinki. Teachers and professors protest not only at the state of wage negotiations but also at government policy: the consequences of hundreds of millions of euros of cuts, redundancies and the erosion of university autonomy. The education policy of this government has been a complete disaster. Now it's time for the government to wake up. Cutting off education is not renewal; it is turning back on the future of our country and our children. Mr President! Finland has risen from poverty by investing in education and equality. The raising of the level of education has been a long line of Finnish education policy up to this government. Just as the SDP said in its group statement, it should be a goal today, but it is not a goal for this government. The government has cut in a way that undermines the foundations of an equal learning path. According to the Ombudsman for Children, we can already talk about structural indifference. The government is making a children's class society in front of us. The Greens do not accept inequalities in education. A good learning path belongs to every child. In particular, experts have criticised the government’s decision to abolish the equal right of children to day care. It is cruel to divide children into two castes based on the work situation of their parents. It will bring shame to some children and their parents, and it will hit the most vulnerable, the very ones who are most in need of support through their learning path. This shameful surgery must be reversed, and the development of child inequality must be reversed. Education must finally begin to develop from the children's own point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u63	Mr President! Prime Ministers and Presidents have told us Finns since you were young that you could become anything. Innumerable talks have also been held today in Finland as a country where a plumber’s daughter can become a doctor of political science and the son of a professor’s mother as a nearby nurse.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u66	Mr President, värderade talman! Today we are at the heart of the real fate of our country. We know that equal education is in difficulty. Problems are also known. There is now a need for targeted measures to maintain educational equality. Quality early childhood education provides the basis for lifelong learning and equal conditions for children. That is why the government’s limitation of subjective day care rights and the increase in group sizes was irresponsible — really irresponsible. The government's family leave reform flop will only make the situation worse. The RKP has proposed that every three-year-old child should be entitled to four hours of free early childhood education per day in the context of the family leave reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u67	Madam President! In the past decades, Finns have enjoyed high-quality vocational education and higher education in international terms. Finnish expertise can be trusted. But what about the future? As a result of the government's cuts in education, an increasing proportion of education is carried out as self-employed e-learning, and this cannot be without affecting competence, especially in areas requiring strong practical skills. The Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament shares the concerns expressed on the mid-term issue, but in particular we are raising the issue of the reduction in education for local and small groups, both through vocational and higher education cuts. No wonder many students lose their motivation and fall off a training sled in the middle of the journey. This is about equality between generations. Young age groups are entitled to quality education. Education provides the basis for Finland’s success. When the quality of education is reduced, skills are also reduced. High-quality skilled workers are of invaluable importance to the business community and to the competitiveness of our country. The savings in vocational education and training are also leading to regional inequalities. In terms of the vitality of rural areas, it is disastrous that training places are reduced and teaching points are closed down from the smallest localities. Mr President! Equality in education is based on high-quality early childhood education. The Minister of Education is strongly profiled as an advocate of increasing numbers of young children moving from home care to municipal early childhood education. At the same time, this government has weakened the quality of early childhood education by increasing already large groups of early childhood education. Early childhood education professionals have publicly reported the harsh reality of day care. In my opinion, it has been strongly said from a parenting professional that he himself would not bring his child into a day care centre where he works. [Department : Think! ] From the outset, the Christian Democrats have opposed the expansion of groups in early childhood education and basic education. In every alternative budget this period, we have persistently proposed additional funding to reduce group sizes. Our strong position is that too large groups of children take away the ability of skilled and skilled staff to meet and take into account the child in a way that each child needs to support his or her development and learning. In Sweden, for example, early childhood education groups are 10 children smaller in all age groups than in Finland. What are the effects of the years spent in large and uncontrollable groups of children on their later school performance and relationships? Are we thus raising the adult’s attention to the generation of deranged behavioral disorder? How many children in need of special support will be completely left behind in a large group of children? Savings in early childhood education and education undermine the foundations of the future generation of well-being. That is something the Christian Democrats cannot accept. The Christian Democrats also urge the government to correct quickly the unjustified cuts in the household allowance for basic schools run by foundations and registered associations, such as Christian schools. Every child has the right to receive equal and adequate resources for basic education regardless of the school in which he or she receives basic education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u70	Thank you. — Group speeches have now been made. I now give two ministerial speeches: Mr Grahn-Laasonen, no more than 5 minutes, and then the Prime Minister, no more than 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u71	Mr President! The main services of our welfare society, such as the education of our children and young people that we are discussing today, require a high level of employment, and the big picture and story of this government is that the direction of Finland has been reversed. When we started our work, the employment rate was low, unemployment rose and Finland had become heavily indebted, and of course it required the difficult austerity decisions that the previous government, including all opposition parties, had to take. But what we can say about this moment now is that in Finland the economy is growing, employment is rising, and that is how we will also receive the tax revenue that will enable us to discuss the new educational inputs of the future and the determined development of education for our children. Good suggestions and examples emerged here of how the Finnish education system can be developed. In fact, a significant number of them are already under way and under way. In spite of difficult circumstances, this government's programme included the objective of raising the level of education and competence, and Finland cannot have any other strategy for the future. What has now been undertaken is that we are in practice reforming education structures at all levels, starting from the important, relevant — research-based — early childhood education. Early childhood education fees were reduced from the beginning of this year. The new law on early childhood education is the subject of statements, and it is a further investment in staff, because they are the main guarantee of its quality, and also the priority of the child’s interests. Teacher training, which is the cornerstone of our education system, is also undergoing a major reform and has also been heavily invested in it. For more than ten years, no corresponding training effort has been made in teacher training. New curricula are in place. They are supported, among other things, by a tutoring model. The reform of vocational education and training came into force from the beginning of this year. It is the biggest educational reform for two decades, it is being implemented, and support is needed for that field, including support from this Parliament, that vocational education and training is renewed in a new era and better responds to skills needs. The law on upper secondary school is currently in the form of statements. It provides more personal support for young people in career planning, future education choices, it strengthens and underscores general education, it is an important innovation. Higher education levels are also reflected in higher education and science policy. Together with universities, a vision has been agreed that Finland will raise the level of education so that by 2030 at least one in two young adults, i.e. 50 per cent, would have completed a university degree. It will require effort from us, but it is well advanced and visionary work will be carried forward this spring, together with universities, with determination. The availability of skilled labour is significant at the moment. Given the pull of growth, companies are recruiting, we must ensure that growth does not get caught up with the experts. That is why the government has made significant, targeted investments of tens of millions of euros in conversion training and continuous learning through flexible solutions in good cooperation with working life. Among other things, we are moving forward with these reforms, and I think it is very important that the debate here underscores the importance of education as Finland's main strategy. Nothing less is enough for us than for every child, regardless of their background, to have equal opportunities for education and the development and direction of his or her own life in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u72	And then Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u73	Mr President! Finland is known worldwide for its high-quality and equal education. Education comes up every time I meet my international colleagues around the world, for example in Colombia, Mexico, India, China, most recently in South Korea. This international reputation has not been achieved through any paid advertising campaigns — it is based on reality, results and long-term work. It is also today's situation; Finnish teachers are the best in the world. Ensuring the quality of education requires continuous development with the best researchers in the field. Maintaining the quality of education requires that we here in Parliament and in the government also focus on the right things and do it in a forward-looking way. Maintaining a good education system also requires sound public finances. This government has broken the debt ratio, and the debt will end as planned. In addition to the state, municipalities also play an important role in the development of education. The majority of the authors of the interim question were making the biggest cut in basic education over the last decade. During this government, the ability of municipalities to invest in education has been improved by the fact that the impact of state measures on local government finances has been strengthening the local government finances. This is a significant difference compared to the previous government. In addition, this period the Finnish economy has turned to strong growth. It also strengthens the local government finances and the ability of municipalities to meet the challenge of education. Mr President! On Monday I visited two very different educational institutions in Oulu. During both visits, the focus of the discussions was strongly on the issues that led to progress. Vocational College Luovi is a special vocational institution where we had excellent discussions on the employment of part-time workers — everyone has the right to work. At the University of Oulu, we discussed with staff and students, among other things, how Finnish research will continue to be on the world map and how we will satisfy the huge need for lifelong learning. Mr President! With artificial intelligence, working life may change more dramatically than ever before. The Government’s goal is that Finland is the world’s leading country in the application of AI. It is estimated that up to a million people should retrain or complete their education over the next ten years. We do not have such a number of places to study in any reserve, and we cannot afford to keep away from working life for a long time such a large number of people of working age. So the task must be done in a completely new way. We were here yesterday to discuss the report on the future. We had a good discussion about changes in working life and skills and requirements, how to change them over the next decade. We are very much in agreement that the change must be answered together and that Finland must be at the forefront of competence. We need to think completely new about how we understand knowledge, education and work. Strong basic education and extensive general education will continue to provide a sustainable basis for vocational skills and higher education, but structural similarities may run out compared to today. I agree with the concern expressed in several speeches about 620,000 Finns who depend only on comprehensive school. Their employment rate is about 43%. This has been responded to at the vocational education and training centres, as has vocational education and training reform. The drop-out of vocational education and training has decreased, and more and more people are continuing their studies after comprehensive school.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u74	All right, and now we're gonna start the debat. All those who wish to make a debatable speech, I would ask you to stand up and press the V button. And in the traditional way, the debuts begin with those who gave a group address. At the beginning they will have two minutes to speak, then we will move on to one minute to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u75	Mr President! Every child must have the same opportunity to go on the way of learning. That is what we have agreed on in this Chamber. It is a fundamental element of an equal education system. The Centre has proposed a school for young children as a way of overcoming the differences in skills right from the beginning of the school journey. If necessary, the child must be given more time to learn, and the school’s initial course must be flexible according to the child’s needs. The aim is not to increase the differences in skills but to narrow them by the end of the second class. I would also like to welcome other speakers who put forward alternatives to developing the school path. Learning should be a joyful thing, and no one has greater joy than a little child. The school must therefore provide a safe and comfortable place where learning is easy and supported if necessary. I am a little concerned that schooling is often seen as more of a duty and a compulsion than a cause for joy. We should find common ways to resolve this situation — the best motivation and pleasure for school again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u76	Mr President! Education policy is long-term, and that is why we must also look together at education through a long-term perspective — as Mrs Torsti, the Social Democrats, quite rightly, pointed out in her speech. But that means that we also take account of the starting points from which we have left for transport and we recognise the mistakes we have made in the past. Reforms are necessary when the selected template does not work. It is also important that in future we be able to invest an increasing proportion of our national economy in education. It is important to maintain a high level of education and to pursue the objectives of increasing the number of people with higher education in Finland in the future. I therefore hope that, now that the local government finances have improved, the municipalities will also pay attention to the investments in school services. I hope that the debate on education will continue in Parliament, not just through the discussions on the interim issues. It is important to find solutions, it is important to find those future paths for our children and young people, so that our future also looks a little better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u77	Mr President! Last spring at Yle, a woman who wrote from the school of spiders to be a student tells that she sometimes had to wait for her mother and father’s payday for a couple of weeks to get the schoolbooks she needed. The worst memory was left of the language lesson at the beginning of high school: ‘I was referring to the absence of a book. The teacher said that without the book, there's nothing for the next class. It made me feel so happy that you embarrassed me in front of the whole class,” he says. ‘In the event of a slight shame,it became clear that there was Minister, you are responsible for education, education and research. We now have the best economic researchers in the country under the leadership of Roope Uusitalo. It considers secondary education as the most important issue and presents as a means of serious consideration the extension of compulsory education. Roope Uusitalo and Hanna Virtanen from Etla have also explained this comprehensively in the report internationally. Finland is currently comparing the length of compulsory education with countries such as Hungary. Uusitalo has also stated that he is a little ashamed of how five years ago they are mainly studying the costs. Now they have also studied the effects of compulsory education and have therefore also ended up with these recommendations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u78	President! There are shocking messages from Sweden about how nearly half of teachers' working hours go to other than actual teaching work, and this insidious disease has also spread to Finland. Various projects, projects, reports and evaluations are increasingly taking up teachers' working hours. These should only be reduced to the most necessary and the opportunity for teachers to work at peace and to do the work for which they have been trained and where they are the best in the world. The Blue Party is a movement of the future that acts as a solution-centred one.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u82	Mr President! In Finland, the education system does a huge amount of equality work. In schools, girls and boys are basically on the same line. School is a success if everyone has the same chance to survive despite their family background. Our system works if the place of residence does not become an obstacle to education or, on the basis of the provision of teaching or the quality of teaching, puts students in an unequal position. The cuts in education that have already lasted several parliamentary years have weakened the chances of success for those pupils who already have difficulties with their studies. As the resource shortage weakens, the weaker ones fall off first. That is what the Finns are deeply concerned about. Some receive tremendous support and encouragement for schooling from home, others not at all, not at all. Education is passed on in research, and the socio-economic status of the family is reflected in education. This development must be tackled immediately. I expect the government to take corrective action to strengthen educational equality as soon as possible. The government boasts of economic growth. At the beginning of the election period, the situation picture was yet another. Now that things are better, we need to invest in the future of education and Finland. Small repairs alone are not enough when education has been cut so much and for a long time. Hard work is needed to save the education system. Mr Grahn-Laasonen listed for a long time what progress has been made and will be made, but very thinly. They're not enough. They're just patches.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u83	Mr President! Recognizing the facts is the beginning of wisdom, and even the government should honestly look at the situation in which we live. The government itself has made cuts to increase regional differences in learning, and it itself, for example, has taken away the full right of children of the unemployed to day care, that is to say, to weaken the position of the children most in need of support. You're raising learning differences by your actions. In particular, I am surprised at the Prime Minister's Party centre, which pretends to defend the countryside and Eastern and Northern Finland, where it is a strong party. In your strong regions, where, of course, there are many municipalities with challenging economic conditions, all the cuts made possible by the government have been taken through.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u92	Mr President! The group statement of the Coalition Party stated that the opposition had a lot of food at the end. But I would say that the assembly has a lot of food at the end or at least lost listening to these speeches. The Coalition Party will therefore defend the training cuts that have taken place during this period by telling us how much training was cut off during the last period under the leadership of the Coalition Party. The assembly then asks the opposition to tell the assembly why, under the leadership of the assembly, there was no further reform of education during the last period. Perhaps you should go through these things right there at the party office or in your own meeting rooms.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u99	Mr President, värderade talman! As I have just mentioned, schools are easily left alone with the problems of pupils if social welfare and health care cannot keep up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u100	Madam President! The well-being of children in day care centres should be ensured by improving the conditions under which high quality early childhood education is possible. Oversized groups of children are exhausting those children as well as the workers. At present, especially in the capital region, there is a huge shortage of these day care professionals. The government is undergoing a reform of early childhood education, and according to it, in future, there would be university-based early childhood education teachers as kindergarten teachers and then there would be early childhood education socioms who graduated from polytechnics. Currently, two thirds of these day care professionals, kindergarten teachers, have socio-economic backgrounds and only one third have university backgrounds. It has been feared that this reform will further increase the need for kindergarten teachers with a university background and, on the other hand, make it worse if these university of applied sciences students are no longer qualified for these kindergarten teachers' positions. Has the government noted that there is already a huge shortage of these professionals and this reform could only further increase the shortage of workers? On the other hand, in what way will we ultimately ensure that in the future the profession of kindergarten teacher is one that attracts young people to the sector? If we have oversized groups of children who are unable to carry out high-quality and ethical early childhood education, it is quite clear that young people will no longer be interested in the sector. What does the government intend to do to ensure that in the future there will be as many entrants as there have been in previous years?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u101	The group speakers have now responded. The next item is the one-minute debate. — First representative, Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u102	Mr President! Here are some wonderful things said about the story of Finnish education. Perhaps less wonderful is the search for the perpetrators, which has unfortunately again been achieved in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u105	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Puumala for his expert, well-informed speech — just like that. I, too, had to scrape some of that group speech because it was insolent in that way, just as Mr Andersson said that the previous government as it was gnawed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u110	Mr President! It is really great that this question of the distance between education and training now gives us the opportunity to really focus on and discuss content as well. Indeed, the increase in compulsory education age has now been proposed from many quarters. Here I was also reading this report from the Economics Evaluation Council, and it is quite cautiously stated that it might be the solution to the problem, which could have greater long-term benefits than costs. However, raising the compulsory education age is a mechanical solution to a very complex problem. Our common goal is for more and more young people to complete at least secondary education, but we should consider the solutions that create the conditions for the second stage and reduce the suspension. As far as I am concerned, their conditions are being created, especially in primary school. If they cannot be created during that time, preparatory and strengthening instruction is needed. A flexible school path is to be supported. It is actually quite unusual to think that those born in early and late in the year would be equally ready to start school. That is what I hope for further debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u111	Mr President! The Greens have proposed bringing early childhood education up to the age of 5 and extending compulsory education to 18 years. In practice, therefore, we want to extend some form of compulsory education for three to four years, costing EUR 200 million per year.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u113	Madam President! I leave Mr Elon's completely inappropriate speeches to his own dignity. I wonder whether the government intends to make more money to cover many beautiful speeches in the spring spending limits debate and cancel the educational cuts that have taken place in these beautiful speeches and have led to a situation in which the differences in learning between the sexes in Finland are the biggest in the OECD countries. The family’s income, place of residence and educational background are increasingly affecting the educational success of children. One in eight boys cannot read properly after comprehensive school, and 660,000 people are without secondary education. Listening to the Minister for Education leaves the impression that the government lives in a completely different reality from the rest of Finland. As you listened to the group talk of the Coalition Party, it became the impression that arrogance has clouded the vision of people’s everyday lives and that ears do not listen. In politics, in the budget, every euro is a value choice, and the Greens proposed an additional EUR 500 million for this year's training. My question, Mr Orpo, is the government in the spring spending limits debate putting more money into education?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u114	Mr President! Over the last three decades, more than 600,000 jobs have been lost in Finland, for which only primary education has been sufficient. The employment rate of those dependent on comprehensive school has fallen so that only 40% of them are employed. Only those who go to primary school work are half their working age. In Finland, there are a huge number of people of over 600,000 working age who depend on basic education, and still from each age group, the studies of some 10,000 young people end in comprehensive school. This is a very big social problem, and it is absolutely essential that we ensure that every young person has at least that secondary education, and it is not enough that we have enough of these educational places, but that we also ensure that that degree is completed. Indeed, this extension of compulsory education, covering a secondary degree, would also eliminate this problem with regard to these subject-matters. Currently, some 300 upper secondary school students stop their studies or change their place of study due to these expensive costs. I really hope, government: could you not now consider this proposal, which has also been supported by the Economic Policy Review Council?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u115	Mr President! The representative Elomaa raised the impact of group sizes on learning outcomes in a group presentation by the Finns. In addition to this, there is a growing need for special education in schools. A few years ago, special education became a practice in which the need for special support for pupils is assessed annually. This has led to a reduction in small groups and the placement of pupils who need special support in ordinary basic education groups. Mr President! Thus, group sizes have grown, and especially boys’ learning difficulties have increased as municipalities struggle with shrinking educational resources. Education in the whole class suffers if the teacher spends his time helping a special student with difficult problems. It increases the stress of the teacher and leads to increased sick leave. In their alternative budget last autumn, the Finns of Peru drew attention to this too, and I would now like to ask the Minister for Education: what concrete steps is the government going to take to address the shortage of special education resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u116	Madam President! The causes of inequality are deep, and they are quite diverse. And, as has been said here in the debate, this is really a matter for us all, a common cause for us all to continue on a good, high-quality road to education in Finland. Regional disparities are large, but good results are achieved between larger regions and also within cities. And this is what the government has intervened in, among other things, through additional funding to prevent school segregation and the further training of teachers. The Centre has presented a three-year pre-school and small children's school model, and these solutions, like Mr Puumala, I hope for a little more in this debate. This reform of the beginning of the school path would mean that basic skills would be checked after two years of study, second grade, and this would also mean flexibility in the school path, reducing age differences. Mr Multala called for consideration to be given to the age stages of pupils born in the early and late years, and this model would take that into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u117	Mr President! I would like to summarise four concrete proposals for action: Firstly, extending compulsory schooling to a secondary level will result in young people not being excluded and better access to the labour market. Secondly, we have 69,000 young adults who are not in education, who are not at work and who are slightly attached to society. For these we must build a path for the future, a programme for the future, and we should start preparing it and immediately. Thirdly, we have over 100,000 under 30-year-olds who lack secondary education. And, as the Prime Minister said, their employment rate is only 40%. We need to continue a program like a programme of young adults' know-how. Finally, it is essential for this change in working life to increase the professional skills, the ability to change jobs and the profession of people in work. We need a major adult education reform, especially the reform of vocational adult education and training, in this country, and it should start right away.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u118	Mr President! It has to be said that you hear everything. Three examples: You, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, said how you are now investing in education. First of all, you have ensured with all the efforts that there are too few starting places in this country, both in the second stage and in higher education. The biggest challenge is that Finns are lagging behind in the level of competence compared to the rest of the world. By your own actions, you have wanted to ensure that the employment rate cannot be increased by making the second stage free of charge, and this seems to be a clear ideological issue for this government, even though experts claim that the criteria in so many ways call for this reform to be carried out. And thirdly, I cannot understand, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, why you dared to come here and tell me how you are now reforming early education. You are actually proposing a reform of early childhood education so that children do not get to the lowest level of education, that is to say early childhood education, even enough early intervention and support, which is the most important thing, because you do not have the means to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u119	Mr President! You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, could recognise the fact that this parliamentary term has moved forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u123	Mr President! The government has forgotten about special children. Olli, Chairman of the OAJ Luke has been concerned that when small groups and special groups have been dismantled, this means that special children are integrated into the general education class and do not receive the support they need. The Minister took the view that equality is the starting point of everything. This is not equality if the child does not receive the support he or she needs. A few days ago, in Helsingin Sanomas, the mother of a special child wrote: “A special child who is studying in an integrated class has left his own words—now he does not want to go to school. “ I would like to ask the government: what are you going to do to ensure that in Finland genuinely equal education is carried out, so that in Finland all children genuinely receive the support they need, whether it is support for social skills or learning?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u124	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you often repeat that the previous government cut out of education. That's true. That's when they cut off the education. That is why, before the 2015 parliamentary elections, we made a promise — all party presidents — that education would not be cut off. The Minister of Education, who is here to help with his own decisions,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u125	Mr President! Professor Jouni Välijärvi, who was selected as the educational influence in 2017, has stated: “Based schools are needed for all nine years. The slower ones could study longer, and the faster ones could be opened up opportunities to move forward faster in their studies, even through remote courses. This would also make the transition to the second stage softer.” In my opinion, instead of raising that compulsory education age, we should definitely consider these targeted measures, such as guidance for studies with multi-professional support and adequate special education: whether they will produce better results than the cost of free study tools and books to children of well-off families. I do not think this is a good idea, this free books for all, but it would be targeted specifically at those who need help and free school equipment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u126	Madam President! In the ministerial box, the ears wave and the nose grow as this debate takes place. The fact that education was cut off during the last government is not news, but that is why a promise of education was made. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u129	Mr President! This interim approach has been set in such a way that it puts the different age groups in a slightly different position. I am a little surprised that the opposition is not interested in the educational opportunities of older, respected elderly people. You haven't said a word about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u130	Mr President! I do not know where the ears of Mr Kiuru and the Assembly were when Mr Ihalainen was just talking about this learning of all ages. But, Mr President, this intermediate issue is about equality in education. Perhaps the main disadvantage of equality in education is that almost one in five under the age of 25 is without a secondary degree. This means that four or five of each class of school do not have a secondary degree. 100,000 people under the age of 30 — 100,000 — depend on primary school. That's too much for everyone. If a youth is left to primary school, the path in life is truly rocky. After considering what the reason is, one in four who stops secondary education is due to the payment of the material. And that is why the SDP has proposed an extension of compulsory education. So what's the government's answer? It was heard this morning when the Minister said: ‘If you are in training,’ Minister Grahn-Laasonen said,‘in those circumstances, the socialsecurity office is the first address’.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u133	Mr President! It has become clear during this debate that the Assembly will not at least listen to the speeches that are being made in this Chamber. But it does occur to me whether you listen to the messages we receive every day from teachers, kindergarten teachers, school teachers, nannies. They're telling us that they can't do their job because of the cuttings you've been through. Teachers, researchers, even last week's child affairs commissioner said that because of the weakening of early childhood education that you have passed, children in this country are being unequaled and weakening is the worst hit by all of them on the most vulnerable children. You will not listen to this, you will not correct this, and you have never assumed any responsibility for this at any time. It is you who are raising learning differences in this country, and it is you who are currently creating a class society for children. The Greens want to take steps forward, but it's kind of hard to take steps forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u134	Madam President! It is very good to remember that measures to prevent exclusion and to ensure a good daily life for school-age are not just part of the education sector. Education policy must not be separated from other child and family policies. The programme for the transformation of child and family services is currently doing a truly extensive development to prevent exclusion and specifically to support families in a preventive way. Schools and early childhood education need services for families with children working together. School pedagogical measures alone do not address the inequality of learning outcomes, but support for parents and the family as a whole. I need to see the big picture of the child's separation, the success of school. And this assessment of the situation was carried out by this government, the Sipilä-led government, as early as 2015 and took action. And, ladies and gentlemen, let us stick together to the fact that everyone has access to quality education close to their home. For the city centre it is important that in every local school
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u135	Mr President! Finnish teachers and the Finnish education system are the best in the world, but it is good to remember that the education system is never ready. It's got to keep getting new and new. [Ville Niinistö’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u137	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u138	Madam President! There are a lot of things I would have liked to answer, but let us now say this economic aspect. So the framework is currently being prepared and the calculations are being revised. I assume that, first of all, the government will adhere strictly to the framework, but if we have room for manoeuvre and can refocus, then knowledge, the future, young people, equality of opportunity are the things we will then hold onto. [Heckling] And I also say that, after reading Statistics Finland's figures from last year, our economy has grown very strongly, turned positive, so also within it, R & D inputs have started to rise strongly. They're all education, too, everything is knowledge, everything is the future. For now, believe me, it is only through a healthy economy, through high employment that we can afford to invest in what is needed for education and training. Now we're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u139	Mr President! I'm responding to Secretary of Finance Orpo. I understand very well that the economic bodies are tight and the government has had to make difficult decisions, but the government's economic discipline policy is very selective. How much help does the Finnish economy help even if it is a reduction in forest gifts, an entrepreneurial reduction, not to mention general tax reductions, inheritance and gift taxes? How much will it help to see social costs significantly increase central government spending, not to mention tax and corporate subsidies, which are talking about a category of EUR 4 billion? Is the government prepared to assess this specific tax and business support side in conjunction with the spring spending limits debate if the Ministry of Employment and the Economy estimates that only 11% of tax and corporate subsidies are renovating the economy? Is the government prepared to take a slice from there and put that money into education, research and knowledge, precisely where it will reform the economy and help employment in the medium and long term?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u140	Mr President! Minister Orpo, I say exactly the same to you as to the Prime Minister that what has been done will no longer be able to correct them in this time when this government will be in force. But the question is, are you ready for the future? Now, listen carefully on the right side. Do you want us to go into the future with the right things? From the point of view of the Economic Assessment Council, the right thing now is to raise this compulsory education age to 18 in order to prevent young people from being excluded from working life or from education. It is the best choice of values that can be made in this situation. The starting point must be to look to the future and seek the right solutions. In this debate, the Social Democrats' alternative budget contains a number of concrete measures that can go in the direction of the future, reform Finnish society so that it is safe, trusting to live and be educated, to grow up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u141	Mr President! Indeed, all credit to the Economic Assessment Council, but emphasis is placed on the word “economic ” evaluation council. We also have many pedagogics and education professionals who find much more effective and better ways to prevent exclusion and drop out of school. One of the key issues is that we invest in early childhood education, which is to put those learning capacities in order. We have renewed comprehensive school to this day, so that it is more comfortable there, that learning is more effective. Secondary education is being reformed to avoid falling out of it. You are seeking, as it were, a cure for the problem that has already arisen. At the same time, we are trying to solve the problem of less, not new falls. I hope that instead of talking and talking about this increase in compulsory school age as a solution to everything, you will look at the reforms that this government has made and what it brings to the path of learning. It is a tremendous reform that has taken place this period, just as a legislative measure, it will overtake all previous governments.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u145	Mr President! I would urge Minister Orpo to take a closer look at these so-called reforms that this government has made.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u150	Mr President! Now it seems to me that listening to you, Minister of Finance Orpo, the assembly has its own economics here. You said a moment ago that the economy must first be restructured in order to be able to invest in education. However, when we look at this report from the Economic Policy Evaluation Council, it is starting from a different logic: first we need to invest in education and training in order to make the economy grow. Here's the deal. It is the general knowledge, it is the general idea of what is worthwhile, how to invest in the future. Educational investments are an investment in Finland's economic growth and future. However, during this parliamentary term, during the spending limits period, you will make net cuts in education of more than EUR 2 billion, and that is what the Economic Policy Review Council is criticising, and that is what we are criticising in the opposition. We see, like the Economic Policy Review Council, that investment in education supports Finland's future growth. We are in favour of free secondary education for all, and we want to restore the subjective day care right there at the very beginning of the learning path for all, so that early childhood education belongs to all children. This would be wise in economic policy, and it is the economics that will put Finland in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u151	Mr President! As the Minister responsible for study aid, who has listened to this debate for a long time now, it must of course be said that student support is a key element of equality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u156	Mr President! Mr Grahn-Laasonen, you said in your previous speech that education will be developed at all levels. That's what this government does to you. I'm gonna ask you: What is the Government's overall plan for the development and reform of the education system? Is there such a thing? The combination of surgery and independent reforms is at least tempting and fragmented in the eyes of educational and pedagogy professionals. This government has cut education from all levels in an unprecedented way. This is reflected in learning differences, it is reflected in the quality and availability of education, and it does not appear to be on the government's working list. There is no assessment of child and gender effects in the drafting of legislation. If you had done so, you would see that your surgeries are piling up for the most vulnerable families and children. I would like to ask if you feel that there are so many children in Finland that education, education and the future of part of society and participation in society can be achieved by:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u158	Mr President! It must be said that when you look at this government and listen to this debate on the interim issue, it is a blue-black day, a blue-black day for Finnish education, because these answers well show that there is no information about the content of what is being said. I now recommend to the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, that you take a look at these so-called reforms, which you have praised here as reforms. They're savings. They are savings that reflect the efforts made by this government to what is most important in life. You said that knowledge will be invested. We wonder where the union of work and education has disappeared, which is the strong foundation of Finnish society. We believe that it is worth investing in education for every young person and adult who does not have a job. We now have more than one-fifth of young men between the ages of 20 and 24 at home, completely outside education and work, and during this term of government we have been able to afford not to deal with this situation completely. I consider this to be a very blue-black day for Finnish education policy and Finns in general. I'm hoping for a change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u159	Mr President! When this debate follows, you can be quite confident about the future: everyone is so firmly and forcefully in favour of the reform of the education system and, in particular, of civilisation. It would not be a problem if this emphasis on civilisation were also reflected in the level of debate in this Chamber — it would not be a problem if it were reflected in the level of debate in this Chamber. It is also good to remember from the past that when this government started, the economic situation was horrendous and there were significant cuts in the electoral programme of many parties. The opposition is now silent on them for its part. Well, it's worth it to be honest. If the economy hadn't gotten better, those cuts would have been even more gruesome. I belong to the generation that went to school, and it was happy to have been allowed to go to college before long, those lunches were good. The development of our education system is the cornerstone of the welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u160	Mr President! Costs after comprehensive school and income during studies affect equality in education. The cutting of student allowance can increase the segregation and inheritance of education, as well as the cost of upper secondary education. In low-income families, one might wonder whether our family’s children can afford to study and train, whether they can afford to go to high school, when books and materials cost so much, whether they can afford to be highly educated, when the government’s student allowance is not working and when parents cannot afford to support their children. These considerations affect children’s motivation to study, self-esteem, self-understanding, and eventually education choices. That is why the left is calling for free textbooks for the second stage, and extending compulsory schooling would also be a good way to do so. All children and young people must have the opportunity to train. We also want to restore the level of student support so that everyone has a real opportunity, not just a theoretical one, for education and study.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u161	Then Minister Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u162	Mr President! Again, I remind you of that big picture of the economy. In order to finance the services of the welfare society, we need to have the economy in order. It has been an important priority for this government, to increase employment, so that tax revenue can also be used to finance valuable services in the future, and in a sustainable way for future generations. These training reforms have been asked. That was a very sad situation for the previous government. On your own initiative, Krista Kiuru, at the last metres in that Parliament, fell those own reforms then. But it is pointless for us to go back to those times; we must look forward to what has, fortunately, been done in many speeches today. That is the big line of educational reforms that we should tackle early in the development process which, for example, currently leads to exclusion at a later stage: early years, the expansion of early childhood education and the increase in participation rates, the increase in the educational attainment of kindergarten teachers, the increase in the level of education, the increase in the level of skills at all levels right up to that level of higher education and continuous lifelong learning, the improvement of learning outcomes through the development of pedagogy, teacher training, continuous learning, because it will be absolutely essential in the future that we have structures for career education as well. This government has recently significantly increased resources for conversion, further training, that we would have experts now that the economy is drawing on this government's actions and the good development of the global economy. So we are going in many ways for the better, and in practice by the end of this reign, now that we have the High School Act and the Early Education Act here in Parliament and adopted, we can say that we have a fully reformed education system to meet the challenges of the coming decade, building future education for our young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u163	Mr President! Let's look ahead. To Minister Orpo: You were talking about the problem that arose or about prevention. Well, the problem we have is that we have these young people and adults who do not have a secondary degree. The representative of Ihalainen presented two important solutions, a knowledge programme for young adults and adult education reforms. Instead, we will have an impact on the future, precisely with reforms that concern children and young people now. That is why we have proposed full-time, full-time, free early childhood education for all children, not the distribution of children into so-called 20-hour and full-time, and the extension of compulsory education, i.e. the second degree free of charge. When there seems to be some doubt as to how strongly this evaluation council took a position on this issue, I would say, as a scientist in all the world, that this is a rather strong position when they propose to the government that government seriously considers. Rarely do researchers say that seriously consider something as strongly as:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u164	Mr President! There was already a good discussion about this model, what we should do. I personally believe, however, that there may not be such a miracle cure that if one thing is done, this whole thing would be solved. I refer to what I said earlier about how deep we now face the challenge in that elementary school, what kind of things teachers wrestle with, what kind of things parents wrestle with. I think that we need two things in the next parliamentary term: we need a major reform that we hope to be able to take forward together. There is this strengthening of the basis in which this checkpoint would be very important, the cooperation between home and school, where this programme of change in child and family policy is absolutely essential. Then there is another thing that you should think about and not knock out. This is an apprenticeship, I would say. We would rather talk about it being a right for man, a duty for society. It would require a little flexibility, perhaps a formula-based solution that cannot be achieved by everyone in the same line, but rather by making a little more flexible use of the community college field, by means of liberal education, but by allowing every young person to have access to a secondary degree. It is very important, but together we should look for such a flexible model, at least not to knock it out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u165	Mr President! Yesterday we also had a debate on education and the future. When I listened to Mr. Puumala’s speech, what he said came to mind. Vähämäki yesterday pointed out from the ideas of the Finns that we would have these flexible, different learning paths. Our group also sees it as a right to study. A young person may have the right to choose otherwise. We believe that it is not always always the best thing for people to be forced and responsibilities imposed on them. I have to wonder at the arrogance with which they began to answer. If I think about the group talk of the Coalition Party, it was told that the hard - ears should learn. The blues urged you to listen, and you will learn, and the political game and trade will not be accepted — well, let's think about what they themselves have done here. You wonder why we can't discuss this and why we're being told to read guides and reforms. Let's talk here and not say shut up and stop talking about these things all the time. I guess that's why we've been chosen here to talk about things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u166	Madam President! For the future of Finland and for every child and young person, it is absolutely essential that everyone really can continue their studies at least in secondary education. Why is this not happening now, there are two main reasons for this, in fact, which are not being bitten by this stretch of compulsory education. One thing is that young people do not have the capacity to continue at secondary level. They don't read, they don't count, they don't write enough. Therefore, the priority is what the government has done: to invest in the participation rate of early childhood education; [ Arguments on the opposition] The second reason is that young people are dropping out of secondary education, and that is why the reform of secondary vocational education and training was carried out. Even the whole funding is based on the fact that each young person should be taken care of. There is a need for different tailor-made support and assistance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u167	Mr President! You might want to take a look at this performance of ours. There is much greater investment in education. With regard to this second-degree suspension, at least last autumn, according to Mr Sarkomaa's press release, he specifically identified the fees for teaching materials as the main reason for the suspension. [Heckling] But now, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, you will not escape this question. 100,000 young people under 30 years of age lack a secondary degree, and one in four of those who drop out of secondary education say that the reason is that the money is not enough. And what is the government's answer? This morning you said what to do in that situation. You said: ‘In that case, the first address
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u168	President! As such, it is useful to have a debate on extending compulsory education, but I personally do not believe that a mechanical extension of compulsory education would be a general solution, and I do not believe that it will work, for example, for those who are allergic to school. New, more open-minded ideas are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u171	Mr President! There is a clear difference in values in this debate. In particular, the Ministers of the Coalition say that when the economy is doing well, we can invest in education and training. I myself think that investing in education is an absolute value which ensures that Finland is doing well in the economy in the long term, but above all it is a cultural value: it is not an instrumental value for business, it is not a value that can be affordable when it comes to good times, but it is a value by which we ensure that Finland always manages and that all young people have a future. And that is why the concern in the field of education about these so-called reforms, which you are very excited about there, is that politics is tempting. The big picture cuts a lot of basic activity, cuts rights to early childhood education. Experts say that systematically investing in the beginning of the learning path is the most important thing, but instead you are doing all the world's small project herring salad here and there, you come up with new nice names and tricks and marketing methods, but not enough is invested in basic work, educational, cultural basic work. We need a long-term, comprehensive vision, funding for the whole system,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u172	Let us give a reply, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, for 1 minute, and then Minister Orpo afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u173	Mr President! Again, the big picture is that Finland spends EUR 15 billion on education services as a whole, counting everything, including culture and sports and hobbies, and it is a significant investment in children and young people, of course. And, of course, in line with the economic situation, we must also invest in education and training in the coming years. This year's budget is now a long time, for many years, bright, but also for the education sector, and that is, of course, due to the fact that we now have the opportunity, not only to reform, but also to change the direction of the economy, to make these additional targeted efforts and to expand services. It's obvious. In reply to Mrs Lindtman: I already said in that speech, in the answer of the government, that the government has commissioned experts in the Education Board to report on these second-degree costs and to find the most effective means to influence them. In a welfare society, we have safety nets that help vulnerable families, and during this government, among other things, the early childhood education fees have been reduced, which has made the situation of many families much easier. Employment is also essential [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u174	Minister Orphan, one minute too.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u175	Mr President! However, this time I say that I fully agree with Niinistö that education and education and taking care of it are values and that is what this country lives and lives for the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u180	Madam Speaker! First of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for our joint concern about our education system and, in particular, about primary school, which is the jewel of its crown. On some level, however, this concern of the opposition seems to be over-emphasized when we remember what your own actions were when you were in the government. There, in Rinte's cabinet, the finance minister of the time, the scissors were swinging when the central government sections of the municipalities were cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u183	Mr President! Mr Kärnä, I would just like to say to you that just after these cuts, which took place during the last parliamentary term, it was said that the cuts in education are now over. Your Prime Minister. Sipilä has made the same promise as Mr Stubb, Chairman of the Party of Minister Orpo in his day. Mr President! Last autumn I talked to a housewife who had started high school education. He told me that he suddenly wondered around the table that many of the guys had left the group, and asked this student who started what had happened. The student told me that the friends ran out of money, that their families could not afford to pay for the school books and equipment related to high school, and that was why the table had been emptied of those guys. Is the correct answer for the parents of this student’s friends that the first address is a social welfare office? Is that not, Minister Orphan, a truly arrogant and cold answer in such a situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u184	Mr President! In order to go ahead and look to the future, you have to recognize, acknowledge and correct the mistakes made. To Mr Kärnä, it was done at the end of the last parliamentary term. All the parties admitted the mistakes made, and it resulted in a promise of education. Instead of a promise of education, mistakes in the last parliamentary term have now been continued. The cuts talk about a permanent cost of 500 million, with index freezes on. One-off patches and project funds have been made, good, but they are not enough to bridge the skill gap that has arisen. You have to look at the whole, the entire study path, not just the second degree, not just preschool, but both. And that is why the Greens put forward proposals for secondary free of charge and raising compulsory school age and at the same time free of charge early childhood education and two years of preschool education. I hope that the government will take the whole picture into account, and precisely through basic funding, not through project funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u185	Mr President! I find it sad to hear how, in the former Civilization Party, it seems no longer understands how well-managed education and education policies directly affect that big picture of the economy. I visited Oulu on Sunday, where I spoke to the head of the local vocational education and training group, who said that as a result of the cuts in vocational education and training, they do not have the resources to target adult education at a time when there is a regional need for labour — a direct consequence of the cuts that have been made by this government, which will therefore have a direct impact in the short term, not to mention the long-term impact of cutting education on the economy, competitiveness, industrial restructuring and equality of a country such as Finland. Finally, Mr President, I believe that Finland needs a major reform of education policy such as the extension of compulsory education, with which we can solve all these smaller problems in secondary education at the moment: the education guarantee, the free-of-charge guarantee and the adequacy of student guidance. That's why it's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u186	Madam President! It is nice to say, as a basic Finn, in opposition cooperation that you can agree with Mr Andersson for once. You don't have to be much einstein to see what goes wrong in the politics of this government. Money for education is not a waste, it is not a austerity policy, it is an investment policy, an investment policy for the future. And then the government says that when you've had a downturn, then you have to save. Well, now is the time for economic recovery, now is the time for international economic upswings — would it not then be time for this logic to give up these educational cuts and start raising education in Finland? Even in the interests of equity, it would be good to ensure learning opportunities in order to prevent the exclusion of young people, and so is the national economic interest, the national economic perspective: we need excellence in Finland, so that we are able to manage as a leading country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u190	Mr President! Yesterday we were talking about a report on the future, and we all felt that it was now necessary to raise the level of competence of the entire nation. But the government has a rather unusual idea of taking this forward. For example, children in early childhood education are now divided into two groups: children of the unemployed and those in work. And now, indeed, this morning, the minister on television told us that if the money is not enough at second degree for learning materials, the youth must go to the social welfare office. Did the Minister really mean this? You have not answered Mr Lindtman's question yet. However, would it not be better to extend the right to study both in terms of raising the level of skills and ensuring equal opportunities?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u191	Madam President! A little free of charge has been put forward here and a little free of charge. But as far as this early education is concerned, early childhood education is already free of charge for the most low - income families and even full - time. That court has not been taken. If necessary, early childhood education will be provided. During this parliamentary term, payments for early childhood education have been reduced twice, and at the beginning of this year nearly 7,000 families became fully eligible for early childhood education free of charge. I hope that this will be remembered in the opposition. But, Madam President, it is even more important to promote the quality of early childhood education. Promoting high-quality early childhood education means healthy and safe facilities as well as skilled, motivated people working. Additional funding of EUR 5 million to increase the education of kindergarten teachers and the Healthy Farms Decade project launched by Minister Tiilikainen were very welcome. Far too many schools and kindergartens are struggling with bad indoor air, and this contributes to reducing learning outcomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u192	Madam President! In his group statement, Mr Torsti said that a mid-term issue had to be asked when a change in government policy was needed. That is what a new representative might think, but we all know through the media that it was now the turn of the Greens to make this traditional issue of education. The Greens here like to advise others, but their own mirror is really lost. Yes, it is promised to cancel all the training savings made by Sipilä's Government, but why not promise to cancel the training savings made, for example, when Mr Niinistö was a member of the Government? As far as the savings of EUR 250 million in the second degree are concerned, they are now being called out loudly, but when Mr Niinistö was a member of the Government, he decided on them and decided to defend them because they were necessary. As far as Mr Gustafsson and Mrs Kiuruun are concerned, you are going to give the slingshots to Minister Grahn-Laasonen. You should give him red roses. He will make all the reforms you failed to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u193	Mr President! In fact, this government and the coalition are cutting billions of dollars from education, and to top it all — and, ladies and gentlemen, small humility — you have actually even managed to cut off the teachers' holiday money. I don't think this is much respectable. I would therefore like to see some humility in this debate rather than arrogance. President! ‘Now there is a need for equals. Training must not be caught by learning materials for anyone.” Isn't that right? And this is a direct quote from Mr Sarkomaa's press release at the time of 16.8. ‘There is a need for equal opportunities. “ And so, President, I was very, very, very surprised that Mr Grahn-Laasonen's answer to this is that you go to the door of social security, go to the door of the social services office, you children, whose parents or homes cannot afford to buy schoolbooks. This is completely extraordinary. I listened, Minister, to both of your answers very carefully. You did not answer Mr Lindtman's question and Mr Rinne's question: would it not be time for these equal opportunities sectors to take care of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u194	Mr President! The main task of the school is to strengthen the desire for learning and trust in oneself. It is also mentioned in the new curricula of basic education, their basis. But has there been so much information in the ops that knowledge and motivation often get too little attention in school’s everyday life? In many cases, the student does not have enough time for personal motivation. That is what experts say. The direction of comprehensive school should therefore be shifted from the focus of knowledge to the focus of education. This change still requires a lot of continuing training for teachers, especially the principals.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u195	Mr President! I will immediately bring a rose to Minister Grahn-Laasonen when he announces that there was a bad miss this morning when you said that you should go to the social services office and get the books. Now comes the red rose.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u198	Mr President! To Mrs Zyskowicz, I could answer that there is a major structural problem in Finnish politics and that is that we have a very short-sighted procedure of financial discipline in the big lines and preparations of the government, and we saw this already during our reign: when the coalition as a Prime Minister party was pushing for strict economic discipline, the content was second. That is why, at the time of 2014 in the responsibilities of the government, we have already stated that education has been cut too much because of these tight bodies, and we decided to raise it as a big political issue. If this is turned around so that all parties promise in the elections that there will be no more cuts in education, that education ahead, children's right ahead, the development of the education system ahead will be considered what its needs are and will ensure that economic policy enables it and does not prevent it, then that is what we Greens see, what needs to be done. Finland must invest in raising the level of education. The OECD countries are doing this, and no stupid economic discipline policy must prevent it when it is sawing its own branch. This is something that the Coalition Party does not understand. You cut and cut and cut and call it reform. It's shortsighted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u199	Madam Speaker! When you look at today's municipal policy and there are many municipal politicians in this Chamber, we all know for sure that, compared with the last parliamentary term, the local government finances have improved at a very strong pace. That means in practice — we all municipal decision-makers know that the financial situation of the municipality is the framework in which the education and early childhood education for children is organised, it is quite certain that the poor municipality will not be able to do anything in practice other than to fear whether or not to borrow from the bank — and it is quite certain that in today's municipalities, when I remember that there are three more crisis groups in the last year's financial statements and that there was a huge queue in the last parliamentary term, i.e. that the difference is quite huge, it is certainly of a higher quality, much better situation. The situation of children has also improved, it is certain. Read, for example, today’s OECD country report, which says: ‘The economy has improved at a very good pace. “ It has already been taken into account internationally and continues to encourage reforms. The situation that used to be, the standing waters, has been forgotten and moved on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u200	Mr President! We know here that there are huge differences in the success of girls and boys in school. In addition, secondary school dropouts are above all boys. If we have more than 110,000 young people under 29 years of age who do not have secondary education, then we would have to come up with new ways now. The current and former ministers have, in turn, told us how to catch these drop-outs, but I do not think that anything has changed, at least during the time that I have been here in this other way. We must give a confession to the government, yes there are good measures, I am not saying that, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, but we should go a little further — for example, to ask why this is because of whether it is the boys or the schools. What's wrong with that? Would it not be logical to conclude that the school has not been able to meet the needs, what those young boys want and what secondary students want? You have to find a cure for this, you have to get dynamism and learning through doing it. So I ask the Minister: where are the reforms and the key means of getting this train?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u201	Madam President! Minister Orphan, children and young people cannot wait until the economy changes. Today, too, a large number of young people are wondering how they can finance their secondary education, for example. Upper secondary school and vocational qualification today cost around 3000 euros in Finland, and not all families can afford this. And as a social worker, I am now responding to the call for Minister Grahn-Laasonen to pay the social welfare office: I can say, as a leading social worker, that only in special cases is education paid and that is most often a child protection criterion. The Social Democrats do not want help for the poor in education, education must be equal for all, and that help will not be sought from the social welfare office. Now I ask you, the coalition ministers and the government: the Social Democrats have proposed free education, raising compulsory education to 18 years. Why are you so strongly opposed to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u202	Mr Pekonen, and then I will give the ministers the answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u203	Mr President! After all, having listened to this debate for several hours now, it is absurd that the Coalition Party wishes not to talk about who did and what did. At the same time, the coalition blames who cut and where to cut, and at the same time the coalition always sits in the government. You can look at yourself in the mirror. Mr President! These second-degree payments are a very big question and a big one. In upper secondary school, after each episode, you go to a bookstore, you buy books, study material, for hundreds of euros. Many hundred euros will be spent on the purchase of tools for studying at a vocational institute. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, I have not watched television or morning news in the morning, but it has been said here many times that you have called on secondary students to use the help of the social services office. Now can you tell me what you've said? Have you really asked students to turn to social services?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u204	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u205	Mr President! Fortunately, we have a welfare society in Finland with safety nets, which families can also rely on when the family’s financial situation is very tight. This is what I meant this morning on the morning TV.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u209	Minister Orphan, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u210	Mr President! First of all, I think this was a very clear answer, so fortunately we have a safety net in Finland, and we have to stick to it. When families or individuals are in the most vulnerable situation, then they can be helped, and that is what the minister has referred to. I think this is clear talk. But it is just as important for you to listen to the fact that this problem is well-known, the cost of learning materials, the cost of schooling, how it is an obstacle to some, and that is why we are seeking the most effective means, we are trying to find help for this problem. I am sure we can agree on this, and Mr Rinne's hand of cooperation seemed to extend. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u211	Mr President! It has been argued here that there was nothing in the SDP's alternative budget on this issue. We have proposed EUR 20 million for the freeness of secondary education for one age group. It costs, Minister Orpo, between EUR 15 and EUR 25 million, according to various reports, this raising of one age group to compulsory education. It is therefore less than EUR 100 million, it is less than what you have spent on entrepreneurship reduction and, according to the legal text, there is no prospect of employment or economic growth. According to the Economic Policy Review Council, this proposal, which the SDP is making, now clearly has long-term sustainability effects from the perspective of economic policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u212	Mr President! The Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, pointed out that at the beginning of the parliamentary term the economic situation was so weak that there was neither room nor opportunity to invest in people's education. At the same time, however, there was scope and scope for a reduction in inheritance and gift tax,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u216	President! Of course, the cuts in education have been painful, and more or less, to put it in Dostoyevsky, we are all guilty of everything. But even after everything that's happened, you have to remember that...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u223	Madam President! There's a lot of talk in the assembly, but less action.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u228	Mr President! We are going to go a long way now if we say that all these things are the fault of the government or of the coalition.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u231	Madam President! Mr Multala has now raised this question, which I have tried to ask the Minister, that there is indeed chaos in the day-care centres at the moment. There's chaos going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u236	Mr President! At first, I would like to thank Mr Kiuru, who raised the issue of digital skills for older people. It's really important in the future. We have been talking for more than three hours now about large entities, major educational cuts. Very important speeches. However, I would like to raise a very important issue — at least one debat — which has remained entirely. If we are talking about exclusion and if we are talking about the depression of young people and children and the increase in it, then we are also talking about bullying at school. I'd like to ask you: What concrete steps does the government intend to take with regard to this bullying at school and to eradicate it? What support services have been envisaged? The staff will be cut off. This is a very serious situation. In January, when there was a session break, there were a couple of families, and that is a very tough situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u237	Let us take a few speeches and then the answers of the ministers, and we shall shortly go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u238	Mr President! You do not want to believe it, but you have to believe it when you listen to ministers and representatives of government parties: the government does not want to hear experts, does not want to study studies, does not want to listen to teachers and does not want to listen to Finnish families. That's what this is all about. The government is in some way in love with its own jargon that all the government's educational policy decisions are excellent and there is nothing to improve, but this is not the truth where Finland currently lives. I am now very surprised that you are so opposed to raising this compulsory age, because researchers estimate that an extension of the compulsory age by two years would generate in the long term some EUR 140 million in fiscal benefits for public finances. At the same time, you are moving forward with the reform of social security, which is going to cost us a lot of money. What is your choice of values when you take forward such a policy in this time?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u239	Mr President! A little more of these reforms now. Let us now consider that the first thing we should do is get those resources and conditions in primary schools, secondary schools and early childhood education. Well, that's where we have a few different views. But if we consider what to do with it when these things are fixed, then we Greens have suggested that it is really important to increase the involvement of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u242	Madam President! The drop-out in secondary school is one of the biggest social problems because it takes away the prospects for these young people. And that is not the answer if it is for economic reasons that you go to social security. How many drop-outs are going to go to social security to get money for books, as they tell you? Or worse: I understand that Zyskowicz’s interlude was sarcastic, but I thought I heard that ‘let’s leave school. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u245	Madam President! Yes, these differences in learning outcomes are a fact. These are particularly severely weakened in our countries in Eastern Finland. Our concern for this is shared with the opposition. But it is not really a matter of action on the part of a single government, it is a long-term development, and everyone in this Chamber is responsible for this, including you who are now calling out for value choices in the opposition. Fortunately, however, this government has provided additional funding, specifically to promote equality in teaching, for this year EUR 25 million. [Left: First cut!]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u249	Mr President! Yes, it must be said that this tells us a lot about the level of debate. After all, during the last term of government, these equal opportunities policies, which have now been called for, amounted to nearly EUR 100 million, were spent only EUR 86 million, which were then cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u256	And now let's give the ministers the answers, the one-minute-long ones, both want to answer, and then let's go on to the list of speakers for a while, and if there's a need for debatables, let's go back to that. — — — — Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u257	Mr President! I will start with the thanks for the fact that this debate begins to turn to the evening, but there are also some suggestions as to how to look to the future, even in the course of this debate, which may have gone a little bit further. [Left: Who accused you? — Intermediate calls from the left) But I would now like to respond to the specific question of these issues of early childhood education. For example, the government has currently launched an experiment on free early childhood education for five-year-olds, and in the expert road map, which the government also commissioned, it will also be developed further into pre-school education. It is an excellent proposal and it is being taken forward and has already been taken forward, and it is nice to see that there are forces in the opposition that support it. Similarly, during this term of government, there has been a significant increase in the number of kindergarten teachers' training, that in the future we would have enough professionals, highly trained professionals, to go to day-care centres to do the quality early childhood education that we can be very proud of on an international scale even now and that we are still developing. The hobby came up and maybe it could have been more. It is very important because it is a big thing in our everyday lives from the point of view of children's social networks and the prevention of exclusion, new learning. They invest in it and have added hobby lessons for both culture and exercise, an hour of exercise for each school student's day in the form of a moving school, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u258	Mr President! I would like to raise one more point, which we should all really be working on, and it is a group of 600,000 people mentioned by Mr Ihalainen, an adult, who only have primary education. There is a good 40% employment rate among them, and when we consider our employment objectives, people's livelihoods or the equality of society, that is something we must pay particular attention to. This is now a matter for particular consideration by the government, i.e. under the big employment heading, but this is also a much bigger question in human terms. It is clear that, now that the economy is growing and jobs are being opened up, it is precisely in this group, where the employment rate is only that good 40, that we have the opportunity to do the right thing, with the right labour market policy measures, with the right precision training, conversion training, adult education and training, to help many of these people to work, and thus to get it down to unemployment and up to employment. This is something that will be given particular attention in the work of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u259	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u260	Mr President! It's been a conversation. I was thinking about talking a little different way, but I'm not going to keep blaming you for who's done what and when and who should do what and what. But I say that inequality in education and concentration of education are serious and complex problems. There is no unambiguous solution to them. Their root causes are often also in the early years when the challenges and problems could have been identified — and can be seen today — in time, and it is therefore essential to invest in early childhood education. I particularly welcome the part-time free-of-charge experiment on early childhood education for children over the age of 5 this year. In Finland, the participation rate of early childhood education is lower than in other Nordic countries. The Government has also sought to address this by reducing customer fees for early childhood education. According to the studies, those who do not currently participate in early childhood education would benefit most. The Coalition Party supports free part-time early childhood education as a long-term goal. It is good to hear that the Greens have also taken the same line. Mr President! New curricula, new comprehensive school, new learning environments and teacher training, all have been on the government's agenda. When the world changes, education must also be able to meet changing skills needs. To this end, new curricula and, in particular, wide-ranging, phenomenon-based learning will seek to provide a solution. The new comprehensive school inspires and encourages learning. The foundation of Finnish education is among the most competent teachers in the world. Colleged pedagogues do their valuable work every day to enable each child to learn and grow to its full potential. This is particularly important because new curricula and a changed world, such as digitalisation, require new skills and tools. Mr President! Appreciation of education and skills leaves home. We know that children of highly educated parents are more likely to go to higher education institutions than children of lower educated parents. This is not a desirable development. Every child and young person must have the opportunity to be educated, to move forward in their lives to the goals he or she wishes to pursue. The Finnish education system aims to compensate for differences from home but to enable individual education based on the needs of the student. We will continue to take care of this. Let me finish with a few words on this debate on compulsory education: The aim of all of us is certainly to find the means by which we can ensure genuine conditions for everyone to continue their studies and to move on to the second stage. We know from research that secondary education already ensures much better than a mere primary school base for employment and also the conditions for lifelong learning. However, we must constantly consider the ways in which we have this economic situation as it is, not just the situation, but the continuing problem — the lower birth rate, the ageing population — and we will not solve this problem even if we achieve the government's employment objective. That is why we need to think about ways that are more effective. If we extend compulsory education, I do not think it will solve the problems of students who are not currently able to study there. I would therefore turn my eyes to the early years and primary school as a matter of priority. Then there is the early childhood education law, which is coming to Parliament during the spring. I can assure you here — Mr Essayah has already left the Chamber — that this is precisely what we are trying to do, and the fact that there are more places for training is to respond to the fact that we have skilled staff, skilled pedagoges in early education. None of today's early childhood education professionals will lose their qualifications through the law, but in addition to having socionomists in early childhood education in the future, we hope we will also have university-educated early childhood education teachers, and with this multi-professional cooperation we will be able to ensure not only age-level pedagogy for every child, which of course does not mean school-based learning for young children, but also multi-professional cooperation with, for example, clinics. I also call on all those who are concerned about our early childhood education to attend day care centres. I go there every day, and I can tell you that it does not look like chaos to my own eyes, although there is something to develop.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u261	Madam President! Learning takes place throughout life. Skills are accumulated and collected everywhere. The requirements for individual and societal competence are currently high and in the future even higher and more challenging. Yesterday we were discussing a report on the future, the key message of which was that working life is facing major changes and that we will not succeed in a change in working life without an equal and high-quality education system, raising the level of knowledge and diversifying education. Working life challenges the need to raise the level of skills and our education system to look to the future, which in practice starts with early childhood education. Mr President! Education is about today's education, as well as long-term goals, needs and decisions. Today's children are building tomorrow and the future. The aim of education is to ensure that every child and young person has an equal right to inclusion, learning, education and the necessary services. However, the unfortunate fact is that this is no longer happening in Finnish society. The government has undermined the equal rights of children and young people to inclusion and learning. The government has increased inequality through its conscious decisions since early childhood education by preventing children of unemployed families from having equal rights to early childhood education. In addition to this, the quality of early childhood education in the children of the unemployed is lower than in the children of working families, the groups are larger and the number of adults is lower. This is a conscious political choice and decision from the government parties, even though it was opposed by all the experts in the field. On the contrary, experts are calling for special attention to be paid to children from disadvantaged families. This government policy cannot be understood, because we know that today the socio-economic background guides the life and educational choices of children and young people. It is children and adolescents who are disadvantaged who are at high risk. This continuum should be cut off and it would also be possible to support children and young people through equal early childhood education and quality education. For this reason, equality in early childhood education and learning should be our main educational policy objective. Mr President! According to the report of the Economic Policy Review Council, the share of young people without secondary qualifications has turned to growth again. The level of education has also deteriorated, which is why education and resources need to be increased at all levels. The possibility of secondary education must be secured by extending compulsory education to 18 years in order to ensure a secondary degree for each young person. This is in line with the views of the Social Democrats. Free training should also be taken for granted at the second level. Lack of money must not be an obstacle to education in Finland. Education and school meals in comprehensive and secondary schools are free of charge, but students in upper secondary schools and vocational institutions are obliged to obtain the materials, equipment and supplies necessary for their studies and to pay the fees related to the degree. The total cost of completing upper secondary school is about EUR 3000 and the cost of some vocational qualifications, depending on the sector, is even much higher. These costs often come as a surprise to young people and their families and make it difficult for some young people to complete or even prevent a secondary degree. In practice, this has led some young people to think about the year between primary and secondary school, as a reason for the poor financial situation of their parents and unemployment. This cannot be the case, but every young person must also be able to be guaranteed a secondary degree. Save Children together with child, parent, youth and student organisations require, in their citizens' initiative, that the payment of upper secondary and vocational qualifications be abolished with all necessary measures. For the citizens' initiative, names will be collected from the free second level until 18 March. I support this initiative. What is confusing, however, is that Parliament cannot correct this injustice; it requires the active involvement of the citizens and the citizens' initiative so that the matter can come before Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u262	President! During the recent debate, a Member of Parliament was ready to make a bet with the minister on something. I could also bet that, after the next elections, when there are government negotiations and also the training issues related to the programme, the working group, when it completes its work, will come out of its room much happier than the present Minister, Mr Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, or the current Chairman of the Committee on Education, Mr Tuomo Puumala or the undersigned. In the harsh conditions of the economy, when we were faced with the poor readings of the state economy, we were faced with extremely harsh solutions. We didn't do it out of spite. We did it out of responsibility. Now there is light at the end of the tunnel, and the coming government negotiators will not fall into the mantle we were. And I dare almost say — I do not know whether the Minister agrees — that such a role would not be shared by anyone what we had to go through over a week or more.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u267	Madam President! At the latest now that the country's economy has recovered as a result of an improvement in international economic conditions, it is time to cut the cuts in education and turn the tide upwards. Equal opportunities for learning must be secured for the sake of people's well-being, but also for the national interest. Education combats the marginalisation of young people and it increases the competitiveness of the national economy. Skilled professionals are a real competitive asset for Finland. We also need top-notch training to do that. Top experts create new innovations and inventions that raise Finland as a technology leader. Historically, Finland’s success has largely depended on quality education and the equality of opportunities linked to it — equality of opportunity, which has created Finland’s educational brand country. Thus, Finland is known for its education around the world. In the future, education will be even more important to Finland’s survival in the global world than it has been so far. Thus, Finland’s well-being for the next 100 years will be built on a high level of expertise — or will not be built if education resources are neglected. Traditionally, Finland has understood the importance of education. It has been understood that education is not a source of savings, education is not a waste of money. Education is an investment in the future. I hope that future governments and future parliaments will bear this in mind when making decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u268	Mr President! Who remembers that the Sipilä government set itself the goal of reducing the number of Masters students by 20%? The aim was to save about 50 million as the number of students decreased. The objective is completely incomprehensible in a situation where the decline in Finland's level of competence is one of the biggest threats to our national economy, and in a situation where the labour force is increasingly in need of a change in working life. This objective showed a deep lack of understanding of the importance of education in the economy and society, and I hope that this objective is now buried where other government proposals have been withdrawn. Mr President! The House had a debate yesterday about the break-in of work. It is clear that work and ways of doing work will change as a result of the development of robotisation, automation and artificial intelligence. The impact of change on society and work is still partly unclear. It is clear, however, that education and knowledge are the best way to prepare for change. Education and skills increase people’s ability to adapt to change, to cope with more challenging working lives, to acquire new skills and to take a career and life under their own control. Let's wake up to reality. The need for knowledge and education will be emphasised in the future. Education is the best protection against unemployment, and other countries are driving past Finland’s level of education. It is therefore completely perverse and contradictory to cut back on education and skills. Education should be seen not just as an item of expenditure but as a human investment. A small country such as Finland has little significant capital other than human knowledge and a trained workforce. Mr President! We're seeing a rare strike at the university right now. The reason is the struggle for working conditions, but the background is also frustration and fatigue in the cuts faced by higher education and research. Finland is in danger of losing its skills and potential if talented people do not apply for research careers, if they do not go to higher education or if Finland loses its skills abroad through brain drain. However, the problem at present is not only the situation in higher education and universities, but also early childhood education, comprehensive school and secondary school are in need of financial deprivation and renovation. The goal of the Left Alliance is that every person who completes his comprehensive school should receive a secondary education place. Without a post-basic school degree, the current labour market will not succeed. In fact, compulsory education should be extended to a secondary level. Such a public authority would be obliged to offer each young person a place of education. At the same time, there would also be a genuine second-degree free-of-charge. The left-wing opinion is that the upper secondary school and vocational school should be free of charge for all young people. Mr President! Vocational training is currently in major difficulties due to financial cuts. Huge cuts have led to redundancies of personnel, reduced local education and closures of offices. The situation is particularly difficult now that funding has been cut before reform has entered into force. The government has climbed the butt before the tree when first the financial cuts were carried out and only after that came into force the reform. This is a very difficult situation for the trainers. Mr President! The Finnish education system is good in many ways and of high quality, yet education is strongly inherited and learning differences are growing. This is a worrying development that we are forced to stop at. Measures must be taken to prevent segregation of education at all levels of education. Key actions include: raising the participation rate in early childhood education, restoring the right to subjective day-care and improving the quality of early childhood education; limiting the size of comprehensive school teaching groups and adequate support services for students; preventing regional segregation of schools; extending compulsory education to secondary school and genuine secondary education; adequate level of study support and regional accessibility of higher education; flexible access to the sector, additional, continuing and continuing education also for adult sector changers. Mr President! The well-being of children and families with children and the prevention of inequality are also essential for the inheritance of inequality and education. Reducing the poverty of families with children and supporting the well-being of families is also a key factor in reducing inequalities in education. Inequality in education is the result of long-term development, which has been aggravated by the government's own actions, and the government's policy has led the development in the wrong direction. Mr President! These decisions have not been made under duress. They've been choices. The government has preferred money.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u269	Mr President! We have been proud in Finland that family background, parents’ incomes or education have not mattered how well schoolchildren are doing. Things have changed now. Pisa results have for the first time highlighted socio-economic differences, i.e. the impact of family background on learning outcomes. There are now also regional differences in learning: in cities, schoolchildren do better than in rural areas. In Uusimaa, we can do better than in Western Finland. It appears that only stronger municipalities will be able to invest enough in education in the context of a tightening economy. Finnish comprehensive school was built to ensure equality, but now it seems that inequality is also beginning to appear in comprehensive school. Inequality between municipalities and children has also been evident in early childhood education since the government limited subjective day care rights to 20 weeks and increased group sizes in early childhood education. Some municipalities have not implemented the limitation of the right to early childhood education — the municipalities have been able to afford to keep it unchanged — but some municipalities have very strict restrictions on the right. Most of the time it's economic tightness. There's no room for flash. The same applies to group sizes. Group sizes have risen in some municipalities and others have not. Therefore, equality between children and families living in different municipalities is at risk. It is worth mentioning here that reductions in early childhood education fees are not the same as improvements in quality. The Ombudsman has also pointed out that it is necessary to ensure that the practices of the municipalities are implemented as equally as possible throughout the country. I would therefore ask you, Mr Government, what are you going to do to stop this development of inequality at the various levels of education? Mr President! Indeed, the specific focus of the recent report of the Economic Policy Review Council is on education and innovation policy, and in this respect it is very ghastly to read. The rise in the level of education in Finland has stopped, and more and more young people are missing a secondary degree. At the same time, globalisation and technological developments are likely to continue to increase skills requirements in working life. The Council therefore recommends an increase in the number of training courses at all levels. According to the Council, an important priority for education and training policy should be for the entire age group to complete secondary education. This would increase employment in the long term. An effective way could be to extend compulsory education. The expansion of higher education halted around the year 2000. The Council therefore also recommends that higher education be increased. The policy recommendations of the Economic Policy Review Council on education and training are largely the same as those presented by the SDP in its education policy programme in 2016. These issues have also been strongly highlighted in the SDP's alternative budgets. We Social Democrats want to extend compulsory education to the entire upper secondary level, which would also become free of charge, increase the starting points for higher education and increase the proportion of higher education to 50%. Mr President! Lifetime education has become a necessity. In today’s world, there is little chance of employment on a comprehensive school basis alone. Nevertheless, as many as 15 per cent of Finns have not completed that secondary education. One-fifth of young men under 25 and over 15 per cent of young women in Finland are excluded from work or education. The working lives of people without vocational training are unstable and nearly ten years shorter than others. At that time, girls’ careers will remain for about 22 years and boys’ careers will remain for about 26 years, while the average working hours will be 34 years. A simple solution would be to extend compulsory education to secondary education, i.e. raising the age of compulsory education. Professors Roope Uusitalo and Juho Saari have also drawn attention to this. Uusitalo points out that in the USA, for example, raising the compulsory school age has increased school attendance among 16 to 17-year-olds. It has increased people’s earned income and employment and has reduced unemployment, the risk of going to prison, divorces, teenage pregnancies, even the risk of dying in the next ten years. During the last term of government, raising the compulsory education age fell on the question of the cost of free education. In the longer term, however, it will be much cheaper for society to keep all people involved in education and, therefore, in working life. Everyone should be offered the opportunity to complete at least a secondary degree and to update their skills according to the changing needs of working life. Besides, the cost of secondary school supplies is a problem for surprisingly many people. According to the new study, the average cost of upper secondary school material is approximately EUR 2500. Ten per cent of those who dropped out, i.e. about 140, and those who switched, i.e. about 160, were affected by a lack of money. In other words, about 300 high school students each year change or drop out because of their preciousness. This is not the answer to the arrogant statement that the responsibility for school book costs is the responsibility of the social welfare office. Moreover, the student may not even receive income support because he or she is required to pay for his or her studies on a loan. Indeed, these government cuts have put the future of the Finnish welfare society at risk,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u270	Madam President! Education is an extremely important issue, not just for young people, but for the future of Finland as a whole. There are exceptionally large differences in the performance of girls and boys in school. In addition, many boys drop out of secondary school. In particular, boys face challenges, with the completion and success of both school and secondary education. So is this about boys, or is it about schools? Either way, we'll find the fault. Would it not be logical to think that the school has not always been able to respond adequately to the needs of the boys? We have research data that learning through doing brings good results. Nevertheless, reforms in this direction are too slow. More dynamism and more educational content and environment are needed that responds to the learning ability and desire of the boys of this age. Well, can school prevent young people from being excluded? In most cases you can't, at least not on your own. More than that, the situation in a young person’s life and potential problems are reflected in school attendance and make it overwhelming. It is a lack of a functioning close network and life management, low-pressed self-esteem and no one is at the side of the game, it is missing from a lot of people. For many young people, the third sector would be the answer that could help. The third sector is not a competing player or any addition to an existing structure, but should be seen as an alternative to education for young people who are unable to cope with the current system. I am very surprised at how organisations are being shouted for help in the celebration speech, but the money taps stick year after year. While the Finns of Finland were still in the government, we worked actively to change this, to include even the weakest link in the entire educational line. The new vocational school reform offers clear opportunities for cooperation between vocational schools and organisations — thanks to the Minister for that reform. For example, a school can buy a practical study path supported by an organisation for a young person who is not eligible for institutional education for some reason. When the Finns of Finland were kicked out of the government, the blue ministers Terho and Mattila also put a stop to this development. Measures and plans for the most vulnerable were buried. Young people were forgotten for political glory. Bullying former party colleagues attracts more than the well-being of young people. This is the dark side of politics. Mr President! Finland’s Pisa success has been celebrated and its fall has been mourned. The drop in PISA results is a signal of problems that need to be addressed. No test, however, tells us everything. The fact that children are able to study knowledge on the head is different from the fact that children are able to apply what they learn. The school should also give more support to the entrepreneurship of the child and give room for personal interests and personal strengths. According to the carrikas, the school should not be a pipe that teaches the child to sit nice and crush the self - esteem of those who do not fit into a single - model study tube. Mr President! Finally, on higher education: there have also been major cuts in higher education, which have already been much criticised in this Chamber today. It is clear that cuts affect the quality and quantity of teaching and research and thus the success of our country. However, in the interests of honesty, we must also acknowledge the government's efforts to encourage students to graduate on time. Although the wildest times have already been reached, it is not in the interests of young people or society that studies are stretched and stretched. Nevertheless, despite the good objectives, the reform of student support could have been made even more encouraging and effective. In my opinion, work during studies should not be vaccinated during studies from study aid. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u271	Mr President! Instead of remembering who cut and how much, we should think together about how to save equal education in Finland. Today, the home background is increasingly affecting the success of young people in school and the length of the school path. Schools are not able to provide enough support for all students, and if you don’t get it at home, you lose track. The differences between municipalities in the number of comprehensive school lessons can be up to half a year. The differences are also large in the amount of support education and in the materials. The textbooks are compromised, the digital leaps become jumps by fleas for lack of money. One in ten completers of comprehensive school have so little reading skills that they can't do their postgraduate studies. That means nearly seven thousand 15-year-olds a year. Most of these are boys. Our comprehensive school has failed to provide basic skills for everyone. This information should at the latest awaken us all, for we in this house have a responsibility that comprehensive school guarantees every young person sufficient skills. We must not allow equal education to crumble, because at the same time the future of our children and young people will crumble. The government cannot hide behind a weak economic situation. The training has been cut too much. The small patches that have been made are not enough. Our children and young people can't wait for better times, it's their life right now. Mr President! A good comprehensive school is the starting point for everything, but an elementary school alone is no longer a success. That is why every young person must be guaranteed further education. Particular attention should be paid to how the transition from primary to secondary school is going. Many young people do not know what kind of education they are seeking. For many, it means moving away from home. More and more independent studies can prove difficult. Thus, young people should be safely escorted over the joint phase by providing adequate support and personal guidance for both studies and other life management. It is also necessary to ensure that additional education in basic education is available throughout Finland. Now that is not the case. Mr President! Although secondary education is free of charge, the tools pay. Not everyone can afford them. According to a report by the Children's Association, they pose challenges for 60%. ‘The younger children do not appear in the Studying the oldest child in high school caused the low-income family’s finances to collapse and over-indebtedness,” writes a senior. We threaten to slide back into history at a time when families could not afford to train their children. The second level should therefore be made genuinely free of charge. This is estimated at between 80 and 95 million. This sum is often recovered when young people do not have to give up their education dreams or interrupt them. But free is not enough. Care must be taken to ensure that there is sufficient local education. Amists need more money to ensure a sufficient number of starting places, teachers, local education and individual support. Mr President! The crucial role also lies in the years before comprehensive school. We know from research that quality early childhood education can compensate for learning differences due to home background. That is why it is important to invest in it. Regrettably, the government has done the opposite by reducing the right of unemployed children to early education, by increasing group sizes and by reducing carerisation. The quality of early childhood education has deteriorated and regional disparities have increased. The right of a child to quality early childhood education depends on his/her place of residence and on the employment situation of his/her parents. These surgeries are the most fatal for children's future learning path, and they must be withdrawn as a matter of urgency. However, that is not enough. In order to improve the participation rate of early childhood education, the annual class must be free of charge from the age of 5. Mr President! Today we have proved how we all want to guarantee the quality of education for every young person. High-quality education requires skilled teachers and opportunities for further training, up-to-date learning materials, sufficient contact teaching, small enough groups, personal support and guidance where necessary. They don't come for free. They demand money. The Greens want to invest in education in order to guarantee equality in education for every child and young person in this country. Let us hope that the other parties are also prepared for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u272	Mr President! First of all, thank the Minister that you are still here to listen to these actual speeches. Yesterday Parliament had a feedback debate on the Government's report on the future work, and almost unanimously it was stated here that education and training are the social investments on which society is developing and able to meet many of the challenges of the future. Maintaining a leading position and competitiveness based on knowledge requires continuous and long-term investment in education and training systems, science and research, as well as innovation and development. The future will be built on today's decisions, which is why it is regrettable that, as a result of the Government's decisions, Finland is losing its leadership as a knowledge society. Maintaining the status quo and economic efficiency are not enough. Without pioneering, there is no competitive advantage. High savings in education at every level will undermine the growth potential of the future. As I said yesterday, sometimes I think seriously about whether we all understand how fast this change is going to be. For example, the decision to extend compulsory education should have been taken a long time ago, and now the focus should be on discussing a wider increase in the level of competence. Mr President! The savings made by the government in early childhood education undermine the future potential of both individuals and society. Investing in early childhood education is one of the best future investments we can do. The messages I hear from the field of early childhood education are more than worrying. The situation of day-care centres is chaotic in many places due to the abolition of subjective day-care rights and the increase in group sizes. Several professionals have told me that the conflict between reality and professional identity is so great that they are completely exhausted from their own work. There is a basis for developing early childhood education if professionals feel that they are unable to do their basic work in high-quality groups and when children are constantly changing, and that they are unable to meet children as individuals. A professional in early childhood education told me last weekend that he no longer wants to work in a day care center when the groups were so large that the work seems like a conveyor belt job. Every day you have to be afraid that there won't just be any accidents. Many parents have also reported that they do not want to take their child to day care because large groups make the child restless. I am sure that the Minister will receive the same feedback as I do, and I therefore wonder why it is so difficult for the Minister to admit that the abolition of subjective day care rights and the increase in group sizes were errors which should definitely be withdrawn. The government has given responsibility to the municipalities, but as Mr Kurttila, the Ombudsman for Child Welfare, said, ‘early education should be regarded as a national issue, not as a urban policy issue’. At the moment, the child’s life is too affected by what family and municipality he is born into. Mr President! The point where young people move from school to work or work is the most important point in society. Everything we lose in it is expensive both individually and socially. In addition to early childhood education, school is the most important institution in our society. In Finland, the principle that whether you were born into a poor or rich home, a girl or a son, healthy or ill, the school makes everything possible — and vice versa: without school we would not be much. I am afraid that the huge savings in education that have now been made and the decisions to increase government inequality and social polarisation are undermining this so-called equality of opportunity. For example, differences in education between municipalities have grown far too large. According to surveys, the number of education received during nine years of comprehensive school varies between municipalities over a semester. In all countries, parents’ education, occupation and household wealth are linked to the success of students in science, for example. For the first time during the Pisa programme, the value of the index describing this connection was higher in Finland than the OECD average. This is just one example of an increase in inequality. I am afraid that the savings in education now made will be costly in many ways in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u273	Mr President! Finland has long been a model country for equality in education. Top learning outcomes, the best teachers in the world and free education have put us at the forefront. This must also be the case in the future. You have to take it seriously. The inheritance of education has now grown too strongly. A child of highly educated parents is much more likely to survive and receive good education than uneducated parents. According to the latest Pisa results, there are far too many differences in Finnish schools between good and poorly successful pupils. The learning gap between girls and boys has grown clearly. An increasing number of students do not even achieve the minimum skills required for further studies and working life. Different parts of Finland differ as they grow. The capital region stands out from the results of the rest of the country. The differences everywhere are reflected in the benefits of those attending urban schools, but there are also far too many areas within cities. The cutbacks in vocational education and the amisreform have led to the fact that only the strongest and most self-employed students can survive there. Young people who fail to complete or complete upper secondary education are deprived of a profession, work and a good life throughout their working lives. You can't go on like this. You've had too much surgery. Differences in access to education and quality are poisons of equality in education. We cannot afford to leave any children and young people in rural church villages or towns in the back of a centimetre. Mr President! The impact of the home background of children and young people on learning outcomes has increased. The level of education and wealth of parents is too strong in terms of the success of the child at school and the extent to which he or she is trained. We need to change our course now. It is the task of education and teachers to give every child an equal basis for pursuing their own goals and dreams. It is the highly educated, motivated teachers who are the long-term stars of the Finnish school, but the best level of teaching in the world cannot be maintained if, as the government has done, teacher training is also cut so much that the best teachers in the world are tried to produce at universities in distance and soon to be sure in letter courses. It's not gonna be good. In universities, too, there is a need for local education, learning together, contact, concreteness and the model of doing things. Learning to be a teacher is not just a theory. We need to secure our children's path of learning. The availability and quality of early childhood education and training must not depend on family background or place of residence. But as a result of government policy, children are now, at under school age, confined to two castes: those who have a subjective right to early education and those who have been deprived of this right because of their parents' unemployment. Mr President! I think that Finland must be a country where education and education open the way for every child and young person to go as far as they want. Now too many roads are blocked and signposts are lost. We've got to get the whole thing together. The most effective way to improve learning outcomes and stop slipping towards great inequalities between children is prevention and care for basic services. It's not just the top projects and project money, it's the way it works, it's the way it works, it's the way it works. We have to cancel the surgery. The sirens are ringing and the question of the interim has been raised, because equal and high-quality Finnish education for all is at risk. Finland needs a long-term overall plan for the development of education and early childhood education, as well as adequate overall funding and resources to maintain a high-quality education system.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u274	Mr President! That afternoon, until the beginning of the evening, there was a three - hour debut, group speeches. That left me with one thing. There was now unnecessary swordplay about what the current government has saved and cut off from education and what the previous government, Prime Minister Katainen and Stubbi, has done. And what I am saying now, I am saying in particular with regard to the parliamentary minutes, the history, because during that long debate — I was always there — there was nothing at all about the fact that these effects of savings on civil rights have been assessed through the National Education Evaluation Centre, the so-called Karvi. In other words, it was the obligation of the Parliament itself to monitor the impact of the savings decisions taken between 2011 and 2015. And even though I was then two years Minister of Education, I know the amount of pain and effort involved in these savings, and I take this into account, according to Mr Karvi’s report — a quote from their press release: ‘The impact of State savings on civil rights — minor changes, but developments in the direction of development are worrying. “ And this report by Karvi concerned early childhood education, education, pre-school and basic education, upper secondary school education, basic art education and liberal education. But the problem is, in a way, that when the savings that were made at the time, as I have said, were already made in a very good way, as an educational and civilised person, I think even more than that, then, on top of that, this current government has made significant savings, of course, even some patchwork and repairs, it must be said, but this whole is, however, the case that there was still a need to do this fourth intermediate issue of education, since we know, however, that education and know-how is everything a and o for a small country. Mr President! That is what I said, thinking of historians, who sometimes go through this interim issue and what has been discussed and discussed here. Well, the most important thing in this debate has been the discussions on the importance of early childhood education, because all studies and even personal life experience show that what children get and learn at the age of 2, 3, 4, 5 is, in a way, the wings that then carry forward life. As some kindergarten teachers say, from the age of 3 to 4 they see quite a lot and far from where the wings carry them, and that is why, of course, all that song, play, development, developing self-esteem and so is very important. And while many fathers and mothers do it well, many of the professional staff — nannyes, sociologists, kindergarten teachers, academic graduates — also do it in a very fine way. Then I would also like to say about this other big issue — yes, and I will say that this gradual freedom from early childhood education is very important for the social democrats, because it is so important for the growth of the child. And then the other big thing is now this extension of compulsory education, or the right to study. When, at the moment, almost every fifth person aged 20 to 24 has a single school certificate is a comprehensive school certificate
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u275	Mr President! According to its name, early childhood education is part of the education system. The importance of high-quality early childhood education for the child’s future learning and school success has been proven in international studies. Much has been said today about the differentiation of education, but the quality of early childhood education must be stable regardless of the municipality or place of day care. Finland cannot afford regional segregation in early childhood education. Moreover, it is not right that this government has made a distinction between children of the unemployed whose right to early education is limited and children of others who have unlimited rights. The original goal of comprehensive school must be strengthened. Comprehensive school must be a high-quality and good school everywhere, a school for education and the future for children and young people in the region. The aim is that in all schools around Finland there is an opportunity for a wide range of optional subjects, club and hobby activities. In smaller schools and hospital schools, as well as in remote areas, this needs to be supported through the development of distance learning. The structure of school day must be reformed by moving to a flexible school day. At a flexible school day, free club activities will be included in the school day, the organisation of which will involve not only school staff, but also artistic and cultural actors, sports and youth organisations, for example. Everyone who completes primary school must be guaranteed a place to study at secondary level. The second level must be free of charge, as has been heard here today. The cost of school books — thousands of euros — has become a barrier to many attending school. This cannot be the case. For those completing their comprehensive school who are not in a position to move directly to a secondary school, a place must be reserved for vocational education or upper secondary school preparatory education, workshops or tenth grade. Particular attention should be paid to the accessibility of secondary education. This is a big concern in remote areas, as the age groups are getting smaller and the students are no longer willing to be enough for both vocational education and upper secondary school. The national network of educational institutions must be taken care of, as the starting point must be that as many young people as possible should be able to study at a secondary level from home. In many areas, closer cooperation between upper secondary education and vocational education and training is a prerequisite for the achievement of secondary education. There are good examples of this from one’s own childhood home, Muonio. There we have had high school and vocational education under the same roof for a long time. The future of Finns is based on knowledge built on education. In the future, it is important to identify the specific characteristics and strengths of the region's economic policy. Supporting them with the right education policy will provide a strong basis for the vitality and development of the region. In the future, we will understand the importance of education and learning in the whole life cycle of a person. The education and training services provided by the municipality must be able to meet the challenges faced by the student in a changing world and pave the way towards a job or further education. Only by investing in civilization will the municipalities of Finland strive for the needs of the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u276	Mr President! The time has now come, due to studies and feedback from the citizens, to turn a whole new magazine into an education policy. The actions of the Sipilä government in this area have become sadly familiar during this parliamentary term. A lot of time could be spent going through them, but I would now like to focus on what we should do next. A particular priority, which has been too low in attention, is vocational training, that is, the basic training that provides the conditions for success in the labour market. The educational base is also important in this time period, even though today there has been an ever-increasing shift towards lifelong learning, i.e. continuous training. In order to get that basic education for everyone, we Social Democrats have long been pushing for an extension of compulsory education to a secondary level. The aim is for each decision-makers in primary education to continue their studies at secondary level or in preparatory education for secondary education. Although there is talk of duty in this context, I personally see the extension of compulsory education as a right rather than a right. It is a strong contribution from society to ensuring that all young people have the best possible opportunities to build their own lives. The extension of compulsory education includes the idea that the education covered by the obligation would be free of charge for the student. Mr President! Messages about everyday life tell a harsh language about secondary education. Cutting contact teaching hours has led to groups being completely overly dependent on self-directed studies. The quality of education cannot fail to suffer from the lack of local education. The cost of studying and living also threatens the ability of many to study. No young person should be forced to drop out of their studies due to material fees. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the SDP has proposed extending compulsory education and making secondary school free of charge. Exclusion from secondary education often presupposes lower health status, more periods of unemployment and shorter working lives than those with upper secondary school or vocational education. The statistics tell us their harsh language about the direction we're going. One in ten primary school graduates do not achieve an adequate level of literacy in order to succeed in society. The educational level of both Finnish and adult students is falling. Learning difficulties are very common. I dare say that many do not understand and do not believe that as many as 20 to 25 % of the population have some kind of learning difficulties, or even a million Finns. At the same time as learning is transferred to workplaces according to the current trend, it should be remembered that basic skills studies cannot be transferred to the arms or remote hours of employment. This Chamber has also spoken several times today about economic growth and new jobs. I would like to take an exceptional example from Helsinki and not from my own constituency. According to moderate estimates in our capital — note, even moderate estimates — the annual need for a new workforce is 18,000, compared with 12,000 in the youth age group. What do those figures mean in practice? New labour is needed only for the capital region from other parts of Finland and the world. In this house, decisions must be made to ensure that no young people are allowed to be excluded. We need them all to work, and it simply cannot be done on the basis of comprehensive school. It has even been estimated that the number of persons aged 20 to 29 without a qualification is now 17%, i.e. 220.000. This number has increased exponentially in recent years if it is thought that in 2012 the figure was 110,000, i.e. in five years the number of people without a degree has almost doubled. This shows a strong language about what is the clearest core of an equal education policy. Mr President! As a society, we must be able to invest not only in high-quality research and higher education but also in basic education and vocational education. Inaction quickly leads to a decline in the level. We must dismantle the structures that displace people from society and enable everyone to have a natural access to studies. Education policy must respond to the changing needs of working life, but at the same time it must identify social developments more widely. Equal education policy is the basis for Finland’s success
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u277	Mr President! It is difficult to imagine a more important subject for discussion. Thus, as we are turning towards the end of the parliamentary term, the last parliamentary days of this parliamentary term are justified in discussing education, education, Finland's survival and investment in the future. In order to pave the way for this debate, the Economic Policy Review Council has made an exceptionally strong contribution to education, to the importance of education — not only as a cultural force for society, but also to its economic policy significance. Minister Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, if you do not listen to us in the opposition, I strongly urge you to take a great deal of note of what the Economic Policy Review Council has to say. It notes that the expansion of the Finnish education system has stalled in the 21st century. This is an alarming message, because as a small country, as a nation of about 5 million people, there is really no other way to compete and succeed than with a high level of knowledge and educational investment in the future. That is why what we are discussing here today is crucial and can only regret the disparaging speeches that have been made about the ranks of the government parties. It has been criticised that this is already the fourth intermediate issue of education or that the opposition is some kind of supply opposition. This is a worse quality of disdain. Is it not precisely the fact that, for the fourth time, the opposition has wanted to raise the issue of education at mid-term level that the opposition is serious about this concern? President! I shall now pay particular attention to three points: First of all, early childhood education. You, Minister Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, have as such defended many good things that the government has done for early education. Thank you for the fact that the early childhood education law is now before Parliament again. It is worth investing in the pedagogical quality of early childhood education, but you will not escape the fact that you have scrapped the equality of early childhood education by abolishing the subjective right to full-time day care. It is scandalous that it is the children of unemployed parents who do not receive the same right to early education as children of older people in a better labour market position. This is a real bad situation that we Social Democrats want to remedy and eliminate. We appeal to you again, Minister, that when the law is open here in Parliament, you will correct this. This is also very unequal in regional terms, because many municipalities, especially here in southern Finland, have decided to maintain this equal right to early childhood education, but in the north and east, mainly by central decision-makers, decisions have been taken to introduce this law and the right to day care has been lifted. This puts Finnish children in an unequal position, not only on the basis of the labour market status of the parents, but also on a regional level, and this is regrettable. Secondly, I would like to address the second stage. It is an alarming fact that nearly one in five people under the age of 25 have no secondary education. That is why we need an extension of compulsory education to a secondary level. It would also make sense in economic policy terms, because, as the Economic Policy Review Council shows, it would bring the fiscal benefits of some EUR 140 million to public finances — if you heard, Minister, it would bring the fiscal benefits of 140 million — and would be as such and would even pay for these growing educational costs. Isn't this the kind of investment worth making? That is what we Social Democrats are calling for. Thirdly, I am addressing adult education, because it is true that working life is now changing exceptionally quickly, there are new demands, and we have a serious problem of matching in the labour market. Therefore, adult education would be the tool by which we would improve the ability of the workforce to adapt to this change and, on an individual level, create the ability of workers to take the risk of moving to new sectors, to adapt to the demands of a changing world. It is precisely adult education that now needs the next major reform, as Mrs Lauri Ihalainen, among other things, called for. We Social Democrats are now on a very important issue here in promoting improvements in early childhood education, compulsory secondary education and a major reform of adult education. I hope, Minister, that you will take our message seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u278	Mr President! The importance of education as part of the construction of our equal and fair welfare state cannot be overemphasized. Good basic education and free higher education are the cornerstones of social mobility now and in the future. Higher education places will continue to be accessible to all, as higher education remains free of charge, and there is broad consensus on this. Universities and students must be expected to produce results in return for the support. For each individual, university education is an investment for the state, for which it expects a return. The return comes in the work input and knowledge of the future. In this respect, not every field of education is positive in terms of return expectations, and different training programmes need to be kept under constant review. Of course, there should also be a reasonable space for education and training that does not have a direct market value. Mr President! It makes sense to increase the weight of loan funding to support studies. Decisions have been made in the right direction. From an international perspective, our system is almost unique — only in a few other countries is higher education free of charge and even paid for it, as we do. The key is that higher education itself remains free of charge. The state guarantee of the loan, together with student grants, must be secured for the student the support he or she needs. Minister Terho's proposal to abolish the income limits for student aid is worthy of consideration. Such a solution would lower the threshold for transition to work and make it easier to build up work experience during study. Of course, the cost of the change needs to be carefully explained and, if necessary, the aid will have to be made more loan-oriented in order to keep the costs under control, but the hard work must be rewarded. As far as basic education is concerned, its quality has proved to be high in international comparisons. Our basic training is admired, and efforts have been made to copy our system in several countries. In the latest Pisa studies, Finnish girls ranked two on the OECD list and ten on the boys list. The high quality of basic education should also be ensured in the future, including through high-quality teacher education. Mr President! The central initiative to ensure comprehensive school literacy at the so-called checkpoint after the pre-school year and the first two school years is absolutely welcome. Literacy is the most essential skill to learn during the first years of school, without which you cannot move forward. In the current situation, literacy, especially for boys, has deteriorated. This development is not due to government policy but is part of a longer continuum in which the learning outcomes of boys and girls have become more distinct. We all want to stop this development. We also need more individualised education in primary schools, because a flat-out model is not suitable for everyone. Technology must also continue to be used more and more. The concept of lifelong learning is highlighted in future working life. The line between education and work is blurred and this must be taken into account when designing education at all levels of education. This lowers the threshold for moving from studying to working life and responds better to the needs of changing working life. In a complex, network-like and constantly changing environment, the first thing to do is to ensure the skills of coping, such as social competence, learning new things, flexibility, curiosity, critical thinking, skills supporting internationalism and self-management.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u279	Mr President! Mr Kiviranta made an interesting, wide-ranging, reflective speech. It was a good thing that it brought up this idea and suggestion of such literacy checkpoints during and in connection with basic education. Despite my request, I have not been able to get my hands on this programme, which means that I do not know it very well, but I think it is the right idea and vision. Of course, I also stress that the literacy skills of others, mathematics, mother tongue, must be evaluated and then given the necessary support, but of course there should be more of these checkpoints. I think this is the idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u280	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Gustafsson, for this speech, which I interpreted as positive for me. I find it very regrettable that Mr Gustafsson has not received this proposal for a revision point drawn up by the centre for himself. I promise I'll deliver it. We are from our roots men from the same province, Varsinais-Suomi, so this particularly encourages me to provide Mr Gustafsson with this material.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u281	Mr Karimäki, from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u282	Mr President! For us, for the small northern people, knowledge is the most important resource. Well - being, able, happy people create a security that protects us all and gives us faith in the future. But the government is destroying equality, because the cuts in education have hit the weakest. I wish the strength of the university people who, as their last resort, resort to strike — the University of Helsinki is on strike today. For the first time in Finnish history, professors are also on strike. It's about a government line where you eat the seed potatoes of the future. The funding for universities has been reduced. Tekes funding and other free research funding have been weakened. The most alarming of all is the inheritance of under-represented and uneducated. A child of an academic parent ends up at a university studying almost seven times more often than a child of a non-academic parent. Education cuts are piling up for the most vulnerable children and families. The cuts of EUR 190 million in vocational education and training have led to a reduction in vocational training and a decline in local education. The number of uneducated young people is increasing. Today, comprehensive school is not enough for employment. The world has become more complex and many jobs require skills and skills. This is also reflected by the fact that the employment rate of people who depend on primary school alone is only 40%. Their risk of exclusion is high. No wonder a child’s representative is talking about marginalizing structures. Displacement and the culture of sending away must be stopped now. We can't afford to lose children and young people. Therefore, a second level is needed free of charge so that people with low income can also afford to go to upper secondary school or vocational school. It is therefore necessary to extend the compulsory education age in order to guarantee training for each young person. The first thing we have to do is return to training the money that the government has cut. Displacement begins early in childhood. The government has deprived children of the unemployed of the right to full-time day care, and the size of child groups has been increased. Many municipalities took advantage of the possibility provided by the Government Decree to increase the size of child groups and the possibility provided by law to limit the right to day care. Children are in an unequal position depending on the municipality in which they live and the employment situation of their parents. There has been an increase in commotion and anxiety during day care, as has participation and nausea. It's cruel if a child doesn't get the morning oatmeal and feels different from the others. It is wrong for someone to be left out in a large group when they have to go home in the middle of playing. The most vulnerable children would benefit most from day care, but few families are going to apply for full-time care for child welfare reasons. Many fear stigmatisation in the eyes of the community. Therefore, the right of all children to day care must be restored. Finnish comprehensive school has been a success story, but it needs reform. One in eight boys can't read properly after elementary school. Children’s health care providers heard worrying reports that school fatigue has increased in children and that there has been a decrease in the number of years spent at school. It is important to create a learning environment in which everyone is taken into account and everyone's strengths are supported. School bullying must be stopped by spreading the best practices of the Kiva School project everywhere. More creativity, community and forest trips are needed for learning and teaching. I would like to raise the issue of the safety of small schoolchildren. This country needs a law that guarantees preschoolers and first and second graders afternoon clubs. In them, a child can spend meaningful time after a short school day. We can afford to offer our children much better, much more than the government has done. I am in favour of distrust of the government, which, through its actions, has increased inequalities in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u283	Mr President! It has been a long time since we discussed this issue, the afternoon and a little on the evening side, these training patterns. My own experience of this interim issue is, when I circled around, actually under the authority of the President, a couple of years ago, as one Christmas break through secondary schools in Pirkanmaa, and the concern that is rising and rising and which has been discussed in this Chamber is how we can respond to the real concern of education with which we can keep a weaker third of secondary students involved — this is a few years of progress, and it will soon be a weaker half. So it's time for teachers to get those students out of there to school and get them activated to study and get caught up in the world of life. Then the other half of these secondary schools is that then those active students should be able to be guided deeper in their own knowledge and take strongly to the career they have in their view. In other words, this has been somewhat polarised, and I am sure this afternoon we have discussed how we can find solutions to this and, as our representative, Mr Puumala, at least raised this issue, we should all think about how we are going to keep everyone involved. In fact, this training also involves the report by the Committee on the Future of Europe on the future report, which was also discussed yesterday, the way in which training and conversion training, for example, can respond to this need for labour in rural areas and in municipalities outside provincial towns. I'm sure this is one of those very topical issues with regard to education. Of course, the most important thing in the municipalities is how we can keep education there on the ground. At least I myself was thinking about the second degree and the upper secondary education and the possibility of close-up studies in upper secondary and vocational education. This is the fourth intermediate issue raised by the opposition during this parliamentary term in terms of education, and it is good to discuss this, and I hope that there will be a flow of these debates, and the next governments will then be even more involved in these issues then in their own government programmes, and we will each party in our own electoral programmes. In other words, there are a number of arguments in this intermediate issue that they affect the equality and quality of comprehensive school, but on the other hand, the opposition has forgotten that this is not happening in the moment. The results of education measured during this parliamentary term and the changes in everyday life are, above all, the result of the decisions taken during the previous parliamentary term. A long list can be listed of what has been done in education during this parliamentary term: vocational education reform, early childhood education law, upper secondary school law and so on. We have a lot of work to do. One thing, I am sure, with regard to the government, is that we have not now cut back on the funding of municipalities and the municipalities' economies have improved, and I hope that through it the municipalities have done better in organising these trainings as well. In this respect, as we approach the provincial administration: For the larger part, the municipalities will then have these vital services, and they will include education very strongly. Hopefully, we will also get municipalities excited and by cooperation in life-saving services, education, planning and perhaps development, also to invest in education and early childhood education and then also in children's hobbies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u284	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister warmly for having been able to sit here and comment on our debates for this five-hour period. At the end of the day, however, I would like to challenge the fact that it was once a party that opposed the establishment of a comprehensive school when it took off in the form of pilots, and now, as the next important step in education policy, I see this extension of compulsory education and the question of the joint phase. The reform of comprehensive school proved to be a success, and I am convinced that this extension of compulsory school age would also prove to be a success, so I hope that the Minister will still use this reflection during the final term of office.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u285	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for listening to this important debate. It is good that all parties have had views on how education is to be developed and that the government has some good projects, although it does not remove the fact that, once much has been cut and broken, the conditions for maintaining a good level of education have been weakened. The second free phase and the extension of compulsory school age are also important in the sense that, as Mr Pirttila has pointed out above, the findings of the foresight report on the change and change in work, it has been found that children and young people at primary school level alone today are unable to cope, so that the extension of compulsory education to secondary level can be seen as a necessary structural reform, which will then pay for themselves. The Greens have also suggested that pre-school education should also be given to children aged 5 years and that early childhood education should be free of charge for children aged 5 years. This proposal has also been very welcome, as 5-year-olds are eager to learn, many children benefit from early childhood education, and more 5-year-olds would then be included in early childhood education. I hope that the government will also consider this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u286	Mr President! Thank you for a very constructive debate in the direction of the opposition, at least in these final stages, and for this very idea of the work of the future, in relation to precisely that change in school. In fact, I would like to raise one point here, which is actually related to these new learning environments and to this school building, that these schools have become quite old-fashioned. I went to get married — when the President couldn’t make it, so I went to cover — in Parkano for a school campus like this and I saw what new learning environments have become, groups, operating spaces and so on. Municipalities have invested heavily in them and must consider them as one of the cornerstones of vitality, so that there is a good environment where to study. There are also students from that same campus, so to speak, from early childhood education to high school. In other words, this school construction should still be included, bearing in mind that we have a good environment. I would like to thank the Minister with you. There are a lot of reforms going on, and it must be a heavy job at this point when you think about everything you're doing. And thank you for listening to us all night.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u287	Mr Karimäki and then the minister for two or three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u288	Mr President! Representative Pirttilahti also raised the issue of school construction, which is also, of course, an important issue, the learning environment for children. And as so many things are in digital form today and even the learning environments are becoming increasingly digital, this is, in fact, a good reason for the second stage to be free of charge for all in the future, more digital learning tools will also be used. And as far as school environments and school facilities are concerned, too many children are studying today in unhealthy facilities, in poor indoor air. This is one question that threatens the good future of children. Many people's health may be put at risk for the rest of their lives, so I hope that the government will also help to speed up the damping blocks, the mold blocks, which were already started on the basis of good proposals from the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-02-28-ps-14.u289	Mr President! Thank you, Members of Parliament, for the debate that has now taken place on education and training in this area for several hours, and I will now pick up a few to answer. So this issue of literacy has been raised in many areas, and it is also the concern of researchers, it is also the concern of the ministry and certainly of us parents, how to get those children excited about reading, how to support families in reading to young children — even babies benefit from being read to them. In this context, we have a literacy forum that will look for the best actions by August, which could be done together, that this reading culture and the Finnish story as a strong reading people should continue and that these digital devices would not take all our time and attention, but that we would also read and maintain that deep learning and take care of the development of the basis of literacy from early childhood. It's the basis of all learning. Then early childhood education went up a lot in this debate, which I am delighted about, and there is a lot going on about it. The savings have also gone to the development of content in this area, and the experiment with free early childhood education for five-year-olds since the beginning of this year, the reduction of early childhood education fees and now the latest increase in the number of kindergarten teachers and the new early childhood education law, which underscores the priority of the child's interests and brings investments in that staff structure and quality, are making a strong move, and we expect much of them. Early childhood education must continue to be developed, so I welcome the model presented by experts for this free-of-charge early childhood education for the five-year-olds and for taking it even further into pre-school education. That is what I am in favour and I am glad that others are doing as well. The renewal of learning environments only rose at the very end, and that is an important issue. Municipalities are currently thinking about their school network solutions, as children's age groups are decreasing in many municipalities, and many school buildings have reached the end of their lives, indoor air problems are being affected and so on, and that is where municipalities have to feel the responsibility and carry out their education and put the learning environments in order. And, of course, under the leadership of the Finnish National Board of Education, this pedagogy will be developed through new curricula, and the reform of learning environments can also support the change in the operating culture in schools. So they go hand in hand, reform of learning environments and new curricula, strongly. Then I would like to highlight this lifelong learning, which has risen strongly in the Chamber and is also a strong theme emerging from the rapid changes in our world, that there must be opportunities to train through a career of life. In a way, that is not new; that is what we already have structures for. Liberal education and lifelong learning are already taking place, but the need for that lifelong, continuous, learning will only grow, and we must be ready for this change. That is why the reform of vocational education and training is being reformed and now, this spring, solutions are being sought with universities, so that there is provision for lifelong learning, including training that is open to people who are able to take part in it, regardless of their time, place and work.
