ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u2	Mr President! This proposal concerns money laundering and terrorist financing, and it is proposed to amend the law so that the jurisdiction of law enforcement authorities also covers gambling communities in Åland. After all, gambling is one possible area that can be used to finance terrorism and money laundering. According to the law in force, gambling companies are obliged to identify their clients and verify their identity, monitor transactions that are out of the ordinary and then report suspicious transactions to the Money Laundering Clearing Centre in the Central Criminal Police. In the case of Åland, the situation has been problematic, since the national authorities are also responsible for these matters relating to money laundering, but these authorities are not designated by the law in force. Well, now it is indeed proposed to amend this law so that, in the case of Åland too, this supervisory authority would be the Police Government. Mr President! I would stress that this problem is not a theoretical one, but there is also a need for this monitoring. This year Paf, the Aland Islands Slot Machine Association, was sentenced to fines for negligent money laundering. One of Pafi’s gambling customers played company games with embezzled money for years, and according to the District Court, Paf acted grossly careless when not trying to find out where the money came from. So a positive and a good change.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u3	Mr President! This government proposal for a law amending Article 1 of Chapter 7 of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism is necessary and therefore supported. Indeed, it is suggested that the powers of the supervisory authorities should also cover gambling companies, real estate agents and brokers of rental apartments operating in Åland. During my time as a police officer, I have also served as the official supervisor of Casino RAY, and our duties included these matters of money laundering monitoring. As has been mentioned here, Mr Räsänen has already pointed out that the Police Government is here as a supervisor, and I would also like to call for resources for those monitoring tasks. I mean, we're in the police department, and then we're in the police board again, but there's a lot of civil servants out there with their resources. There will be more different tasks when we are here to legislate and with the law to perform different tasks. In this context, we are talking about supervisory tasks, and then I would like to call for those resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u4	Mr President! Mr Räsänen, as former Minister for Foreign Affairs, went through this very well. This is therefore intended to address organised crime and money laundering and to extend the authority of the authorities to the Åland Islands for exceptional financial transactions and, through it, for money laundering. This is an important part of organised crime, and in this same legislative package we are talking about money laundering, but also about the financing of terrorism. I welcome the fact that measures have been taken during this regime and even during the previous regime to eradicate terrorism and to make this work more difficult. Among other things, travel and training for terrorist purposes, financing terrorism, recruiting and others have already been committed as crimes in our legislation. Several of these updates have been made in recent years. The only thing that is still clearly lacking in this whole is the criminalisation of belonging to a terrorist organisation. I myself have also made a legislative initiative in this Parliament, and I hope that it will also proceed. It would be even better placed to intervene in these measures that would be needed to eradicate international terrorism.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u5	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing to include Chapter 7, Section 1 of the Money Laundering Act. It is clarified that the supervision of the national authorities mentioned therein under the Money Laundering Act also covers gambling companies operating in Åland and real estate agents and brokers of rental dwellings. The proposed clarifications have little impact on the obligations of traders and entities mentioned in the Money Laundering Act. The proposal proposes that the Board of Directors of the Police be responsible for the supervision of traders and entities providing gambling services to gambling communities and the gambling community operating in Åland. I consider this to be a good reform. The Regional State Administrative Agency is responsible for the supervision of brokers of real estate and rental housing. It is also clear from the explanatory memorandum that the powers of control are to be transferred to the authorities of the Åland Islands without delay after the entry into force of the proposed amendment of the Act by means of a contract regulation in accordance with the Åland Autonomous Law. I think this is good, because the controlled sites are also in Åland. It is clear that controls will also generate costs and will require resources. According to the proposal, the costs of controls have been set out to be borne by each authority within the framework. The costs are always borne by the Ministry whose administrative function is being delegated. Mr President! I consider the proposal necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u6	Mr President! Without taking a stand on how things are done in Åland, but in my own view: There is a big gaming company that manages its affairs responsibly. If we go to the Åland Islands and ask how socially this gaming company produces well-being in that nearby environment, whether you ask sports clubs or cultural life, then things have been done there in such a way that it gives a particularly good and lasting effect to it. But I agree with the representative above on the resources for monitoring. Legislation, which is adopted but which does not include the requirement that control resources should be up-to-date with its legislation, is pointless legislation. In that sense, we need to consider here that we need to see more things in such a way that we do legislation that we dare here also require resources to monitor and implement its legislation in such a way that it really does. With regard to the shadow economy and money laundering, we are still doing reasonably well in this country. For us, the culture of games and the controls associated with it are well organized. But this world is living so much faster that now we have to be really careful, and I am also shouting, like Mrs Grass, at resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u7	Mr President! Certainly, Paf is doing responsible work in many ways and enjoying the trust of the Ålanders. However, the judgment given at the Åland District Court this spring indicates that there has been insufficient supervision of the activities of the Slot Machine Association in relation to money laundering, and that is why this is certainly a matter for the Police Government. I would add that the District Court found that Paf acted grossly careless when it did not try to determine the origin of the money. After all, in this case Pafi paid attention to this person’s abundant gambling already in 2011, but no attempt was made to determine the origin of the money, even though the woman’s profession as an accountant was known. It was only in 2012 that this suspicion of money laundering was reported and this was the result of this litigation. Here, among other things, Mr Ruoho paid attention to the costs. It is true that, in this case, these additional costs of control are intended to be covered by the frameworks of each authority, in accordance with this Government's proposal and also the committee's report. In other words, more tasks are given here, but not more money, but the same funds must also be used to try to carry out this monitoring task.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u8	Mr President! This proposal therefore mainly concerns Åland and is in itself very necessary. Now that we are discussing supervision and the legislative framework, which has become more widespread in the financial markets because of the threat of terrorism and money laundering, I drew attention to the fact that this legal base also comes into very small Finnish financial institutions and it is quite heavy. But it is not enough, but these regulations also come to the customers, and there will be more costs. If you're politically active, there's a lot of species that need to be sorted out, and anyway. That it should be possible to take into account that we have very small financial institutions in Finland, and these costs also come to the customer.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u9	Mr President! In order not to leave a misconception now, what has happened is totally reprehensible, and it is particularly important to note that we cannot accept charity that comes from the possession of criminal money. So of course it has brought money to the gaming company when that money is being laundered, and the unpleasant feeling comes from the fact that when someone has produced money contrary to morals, it is being distributed to charity. This does not justify in any way, and it is unacceptable. But I have the belief and confidence that even though there are not enough resources right now, digitalisation will certainly help us with this supervision. We do not need so many manual handicrafts and eye pairs when we can use artificial intelligence, for example, to pick up these exceptional players from among them and then to specify the human resources to start a study in this sector and in relation to this person.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u10	Mr President! Just as Mr Ala-Nissila has said here, in Finland, these scales cause the whole activity to turn out to be impossible or unprofitable, resulting in fewer supply and competition. However, in this case of Åland, I would primarily blame this gaming company for its responsibility and will continue to be responsible. At the table, the tablekeeper will see who has an exceptional amount of money, and if his description of tasks is such that it is necessary to act in a definite manner, then this responsibility for supervision is natural to give priority to him, and if his responsibilities are not sufficient, then let him have the authority there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u11	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. We only have three minutes, but in any case I will give Mr Henriksson the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u12	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Svenska riksdagsgruppen och undertecknad initialar nu en lagmotion om att införa kön som skärpningsgrund i strafflagen. Internet och digitaliseringen har ändrat på våra stätt att kommunicera och umgås. Vi lever i dag våra liv i allt högre grad på nätet, vilket för med sig öjligheter men också utmangar. När jag talar om utmangar syftar jag specifikt på hat och hot som förekommer på nätet. Där den digititala utvecklingen har gått snabbt framåt har lagstiftningen inte Hunnit med i utvecklingen, och vi behöver göra något åt saken. I undersökningar har det framkommit att män i practiceken har ett bättre rättsligt skydd för kränkningar på natet ¤ kvinnor. Både män och kvinnor utsätts för hat och hot på nätet, men på olika vis. Kvinnor som yttrar sig i offentligheten drabbas i större utsträckning än och utsätts dessutom i högre grad för sexism och sexuella hot som anspelar på utsende, kropp och sexualitet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-05-18-ps-52.u13	For table setting, item 5 of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 22 May 2018. A description of the national border between the Republic of Finland and the Russian Federation can be seen in the legislative director's room during the proceedings.
