ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u1	The third item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Representative Antti Lindtman and 71 other representatives have put a question to the Government about the working conditions of young people on VK 2/2018 vp. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Council of Presidents, which is responsible for making proposals for the arrangement of sittings between parliamentary groups in the Chamber, proposes that Parliament should decide that representatives should sit in the Chamber by parliamentary groups, with a Swedish parliamentary group on the extreme right from the seat of the President, and from then on other parliamentary groups in the following order: a parliamentary group for the Coalition Party, a Christian Democratic Parliament, a parliamentary group for the Centre, a parliamentary group for the Movement Now, a parliamentary group for the People's Republic of Finland, a blue parliamentary group, a group for the Green Parliament, a parliamentary group for the Social Democratic Party and, on the left, a parliamentary group for the Left, each group within the limits laid down by the Council of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u3	Madam President! Is there any member of the Council of Presidents who could give some justification for this proposal by the Council of Presidents? Personally, on the basis of what I have been able to learn mainly through the publicity of the Business Now Group, I am surprised that the representative of the Business Now Group — or was it called the ‘Representative Harkimoneduskunta’ group? — is in line with the Finns of Finland and on the left side of the centre. On the basis of the public debate, I myself would have concluded that the Movement Now Group was somewhere else in this Chamber. In other words, my question is: is there any member of the Council of Presidents here who could give some reasons for this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u4	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz asked me a very well-founded question. I'm gonna stay here and ask you how that move to that point stopped.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u5	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz has a perfectly legitimate question. Representative Ala-Nissila has already taken me, let's say, the edge of my joke, when I had just said that if you think about this movement, it should be in motion all the time, moving now. In other words, being in one place is, of course, contrary to the basic idea of the movement. Mr Zyskowicz's question is well-founded. I think this is an indication of what that group is ideologically part of.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u6	Mr President! I am not a member of the Council of Presidents, but, in the light of public information, I have heard from it that the Movement is now also defending the weaker. I think it is only natural that it will then be both from the assembly and from the left of the President in the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u7	Mr President! The movement has now announced its opposition and its opposition to climate change, so I think it is justified that this issue should be taken into account in relation to the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u8	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u9	Madam President! The Government's proposal in this feedback debate now relates to the establishment of the Food Agency. The establishment of this agency would involve the merger of the Food Agency — Evira — and the Rural Office, and the Land Survey would also shift tasks in relation to the provision of information management services for the new agency. In addition, tasks related to the monitoring of the use of plant protection products would also be transferred from the Safety and Chemicals Agency to the Agency. The criteria and objectives set out in the Government's proposal for the establishment of the Food Agency are to be welcomed and good. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I have been closely involved in the committee's examination of the Government's proposal on the Food Agency, and I would like to make a few observations on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which need to be raised. It is particularly important to secure sufficient resources for the agency to be set up, taking into account changes in the operating environment, such as the diversification of food supply and the internationalisation of the food sector, new distribution concepts and then the trend towards a reduction in the number of farms in Finland at the same time as farms are growing and farms are specializing. I would also like to draw attention, President, to the preparations for the reform of agricultural policy at EU level. With the reform of the common agricultural policy, EU Member States will have more decision-making and competence in implementing the agricultural policy, i.e. how Member States could use common subsidies, i.e. actually apply them, by Member State. This is a significant change to the current situation and should be fully taken into account in the work of the Agency to be set up. It is therefore essential, President, that these issues and their impact on the functioning of the Agency be assessed comprehensively and that the new agency has sufficient resources to respond to these changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u10	Madam President! The proposal proposes a law on the Food Agency. The Act would create a new agency for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which would combine the tasks of the Finnish Food Safety Agency and the Rural Development Agency. The aim of the proposal is to harmonise and clarify administrative structures, to improve the overall steering of the industry, and to promote the development of a culture of operation and information management and to take greater account of the views of actors in the food chain in the public administration. The proposal relates to the draft budget for next year and I very much welcome it. The committee concerned, namely the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, also considered the aim of the proposal to strengthen the Food Agency as a key element in primary production. According to it, the Food Agency will be a key stakeholder whose key role will be to support the competitiveness of operators in the food chain. The management, development and control of the entire food chain within the same agency is highly appropriate from an operational point of view. The Food Agency must be able to provide existing high-level expertise, risk assessments and scientific research for the practical benefit of all our customers. We must also be able to prepare for the critical areas of competence of the future and the potential needs that arise there. The main task of the agency to be set up must be to control agriculture and the entire food chain and to promote exports as a wider area of activity. From the point of view of the reliability and credibility of public authorities and also of risk assessment and the international effectiveness of scientific research, the various actors must be functionally independent of each other, and there is certainly something to be done here. It is clear that the current situation needs change in order to meet the challenges of the future, and that is where the customer perspective must be at the centre. The IT administration must be developed as a whole, staff transfers must be voluntary, and in any case it would be good to have staff committed to the new agency. It would at least make it easier to run the agency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u11	Mr President! The proposal for a new law on the Food Agency will bring together operators in the agricultural and food sectors in a very appropriate and effective way. The new agency serves Finnish food production in a comprehensive way. The integration of agencies will contribute to the development of electronic services and the implementation of the one-stop shop service principle. As far as information systems are concerned, it is very important to ensure, in particular during the transition period, that the service can be managed without disruption, especially in the payment of subsidies. This is the point against which the success of the reform and the credibility of the whole system will be mirrored. We shall follow this very closely in committee. Mr President! The proposal for a new Food Agency has been taken forward in good agreement and the committee was also unanimous in its report. Agricultural policy and food policy are increasingly intertwined in the future. The sector faces important challenges that need to be prepared in advance. It is therefore good that research and development activities are now being brought together in a single agency in a way that contributes to preparing for and solving these challenges. In this connection, I would also like to thank Minister Leppää for choosing the city of Seinäjoki as the head office of the Food Agency.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u13	Madam President! This government proposal on the Food Agency and related laws was discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the committee adopted a unanimous report on it. This agency will be linked to the Rural Development Agency, Evira — Food Safety Agency — and the Land Survey in certain respects, and they are very well suited to the Food Agency’s remit, given that the food industry and its exports are increasingly important to our economy. One of the central objectives of Prime Minister Sipilä's government has been to increase food exports. The statistics so far from this government period show that it has been very successful. This Food Agency is very well suited to Southern Ostrobothnia, as there is already a Department of the Rural Development Agency — and given that the food sector employs more than 20 per cent of the employed labour force in South Ostrobothnia. There are a number of very important export-able food businesses. In the future, it is very important to secure sufficient resources for the Finnish Food Authority so that this positive development can be taken forward. The units of primary production have also developed and made progress in Southern Ostrobothnia in recent years. The size of the farm has expanded and the unit size of livestock production has also increased significantly. With these words welcome, Food Agency, South Ostrobothnia and Seinäjoki!
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u14	Mr President! Here the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mrs Tuppurainen and Mrs Hautala, have spoken well — and Mrs Wallin, the esteemed chairman of the Section for Agriculture of the Committee on Finance, has also spoken well. I also think this agency has a good name, the Food Agency. Maybe we need to talk more about food. In fact, there are no Helsingin Sanomats where there is no food thing every day, so there is no farming. In other words, people are interested in food, it is important, and, broadly speaking, this agency has a major role to play in ensuring food production, food security, in the future, if widely thought. As Mr Tuppurainen said, there is going to be more national room for manoeuvre in EU agricultural policy, and that is a good thing. In particular, if I look a little further, climate risks will increase at European level and especially at global level in the context of food production. This is already something that the reform of the EU's agricultural policy, including the future of Finnish food production, which can be quite good in itself, must take into account. All the best for this new agency, Seinäjoki. I do think of other places where it could be located, especially in the food region of Varsinais-Suomi, but I congratulate the Wall River.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u15	Madam President! Certainly the most important thing is that the committee is united behind this project. The debate in committee was very forward-looking. And now I would have emphasised what Mr Ala-Nissilä has said about climate change. It is important that this whole thing, or the expression “to the table of the field ” and its way of life. We need to understand that food is primary production. Of course, we in Satakunta would not have been sorry if an agency had come to such a strong food region, but the structures already existed, it is pointless to split up and invest, to make difficult decisions for the staff. In my opinion, the Minister's proposal on the location was correct and consistent. I'm sure that's how we're going to avoid a bad move with the staff, and so on. This does not change the offices where they are currently located, but the activities themselves continue, but the organisation is a common one. Congratulations, Wallin, it went to Seinäjoki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u16	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Administrative Committee and the Legal Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u17	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! The report of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman 2018 is under discussion, and I wanted to ask for this speech because of accessibility issues. Here is an excellent point: 2.4.2. Accessible, accessible and equal society. At the beginning, I would like to continue to stress that the major challenge facing our society at the moment is not only the traditional accessibility, but also the accessibility of the network. Our services are constantly being transferred to the network and people are expected to be able to use banking services, various tax services, different Kela services and many more online. In fact, this web accessibility is something that I hope will be given greater attention in Finnish society, and it also means that people who, for example, have problems with their eyesight, are weak-sighted, or so on, but also that these services are simple and easy to use so that they can be used. I hope that, in this network accessibility, especially now, state actors will be pioneers. This report states that ‘a barrier-free societyis a basicrequirementforparticipationandequality’,andthat‘the obligation to have equalitylawis appropriatetoimplementequalities between people with disabilities’,and thisextensivelyexpandedin2015. And that brings me, Mr President, to why I wanted to speak. I had a meeting this week with a person who uses a wheelchair. He came to the parliament and called that he could not enter this house — he could not enter a house that regulates these laws, such as accessibility and equality. He was in the rain outside the parliament, and the bell being played was so high that he could not speak when he was sitting in a wheelchair. Eventually he got in from there and got through security, but he couldn't get into the conference room in this house. First thing he had to do was get in the elevator. The first elevator was successful. It was a modern elevator. Then came the next elevator with the door. He didn't get there on his own anymore. Then he had to go into three different elevators and open a number of old heavy doors. Yes, accessibility in this house should also be on a completely different level. I also raised this issue just because this house should be an example and a pointer on these issues, and now I feel that: Here too, the National Board of Antiquities shakes the tail more strongly than, for example, the equality of people or the accessibility of the house. I understand that not all doors in this house can, of course, be made accessible and should not be done, and that old history must also be respected. But there are two options: either there is an escort on behalf of the house to help, or there is a way of moving in this house without obstacles. In this debate in the electronic media, Mrs Hassi, the Greens' representative, pointed out that, in fact, during this renovation, the accessibility of Parliament went in a worse direction. I just told you that in 2015 the legislation tightened. At the same time, Parliament began the renovation, renovated the house for two years, and the accessibility of the house weakened. For example, according to Mr Hassi, an inva-wc was removed from this floor. I do not know what will be done in that situation when the next person who regularly uses a wheelchair comes to Parliament. I wanted to point this out just because I hope that even in Parliament this issue of equality and accessibility will be taken even more seriously. And now that this is the situation, these persons who are in the house are offered an escort on behalf of the house so that they are able to attend the meetings in which, for example, he was assigned as a government official. So he wasn't my guest. He was a government official who was coming here. Mr President! I will not go any deeper in the report of the Ombudsman for Equality, as this is a worrying example that equality does not happen in our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u18	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Heinonen, it was an excellent and very necessary speech in which you raised a very important issue. I am sure that this must lead to action, and it also shows how important it is that we have such a special representative, who specifically pays particular attention to equality and the promotion of equality and how, in practice, it requires us to think more broadly and from many points of view and to act that it is not just a matter of principles but of real participation, of equal participation for every person in our society, and of course Parliament is now the first place. It is sad to hear, of course, that we still have problems, but these will certainly be addressed at least after this debate. And perhaps it would be good if we had a system in which we could constantly bring out or pay attention to such new things that we have never thought of before if we have other places, such as here in the house that cause problems. This is now the first report by the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman to Parliament, but the human trafficking rapporteur is actually the third, and I am perhaps now paying the most attention to this particular aspect of trafficking in human beings, although all these issues are very important. It's a very interesting story, and I really recommend it to everyone. That's a lot of good recommendations. After all, the national human trafficking rapporteur is well, it is said, a progressive mechanism that does not exist in many countries, and Finland is presented as a pioneer in that sense in the world. It shows, however, that in this work against trafficking in human beings we have been working very hard and moving forward by creating mechanisms that are always assessing whether the legislation that the Finnish Parliament has enacted is working, which is aimed at preventing trafficking in human beings, helping victims and bringing those responsible to justice. We all know that legislation is one thing, but in order to be able to really develop it and achieve these very difficult objectives, it is essential that we in practice constantly follow how it is done and where we should intervene. It is also a pioneering way of working in the sense that it was perhaps one of the first reports in which Parliament has actually dealt with all the recommendations in detail and continued to issue recommendations to the administration on how to develop the drafting of legislation and how to plan and develop the skills. It has been very important and Parliament is also very important in this development of implementation. In that sense, it's a really great thing. In previous reports, the human trafficking rapporteur has specifically drawn attention to the effectiveness of criminal law, and this time the focus is on helping victims of trafficking in human beings. The focus is on how this legislation on aid works. I would therefore like to propose that, in addition to these committees of opinion which have been presented, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should also issue an opinion on this report, because it specifically focuses on the functioning of the municipal social and health services, how to identify the victim of trafficking in human beings, how to take into account the need for the assistance he needs and his special status, because the report clearly states that there is one of the weakest parts of this whole system against trafficking in human beings and that too little attention has been paid to it in the past. That is why I think that this report will not receive sufficient, expert treatment if it does not go there to be evaluated by our social welfare and health care experts. I hope that in some way now it can be found there, and perhaps we can end it here. In fact, the problem here, for example, is that it is not working to help people who are victims in Finland and especially those who are victims of sex trafficking. For example, the situation is that it is not at all the people who receive help from non-governmental organisations who are being directed into the system of assistance. It would be absolutely necessary for Finnish citizens, already permanently resident in Finland, to receive the special help they need in the sex trade. It therefore seems that now is indeed the time to address this issue, too, in the municipalities, and perhaps in the regions to come, but it is precisely these services that are better able to identify these needs. Again, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has good concrete recommendations, this time nine recommendations, many of which also relate to this assistance to victims of trafficking, partly related to services, but partly also to the fact that assistance at the moment seems to be very closely linked to the criminal process. And since the criminal process has been well presented, how this process is going to be done, which you will also see here on page 81, you will see that at the moment more and more victims are being identified, more and more are being investigated year by year, but then, for example, the number of charges is as low as they have been for a long time. There's something amazing going on here so that a criminal investigation doesn't lead to prosecution. Therefore, criminal investigations are not sufficiently resourced or lacked sufficient expertise — some reason. Some of it is also related to the fact that there is a problem in the aid system that victims, for example, may not seek to do so, and in order for the criminal process to function properly, a victim is generally needed who can and can even contribute to the progress of the criminal process. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the resources of the Ombudsman for Equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u19	Madam President! This report by the delegate to Parliament is very important. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has made very important recommendations and has also made the findings that our human rights situation at the moment is really challenging. For example, there are many shortcomings in the legal protection of immigrants, particularly in the legal protection of asylum seekers. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman highlights, among other things, the need for family reunification as an important right for the child. Mr Biaudet spoke convincingly before about helping victims of trafficking in human beings and stepping up the fight against trafficking in human beings. Indeed, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman raises a great deal of issues that need to be addressed, such as the fact that victims are now not adequately guided into the system of assistance, especially in municipalities, and the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman points out that assistance should be a separate process from the criminal justice process and that NGOs should also have better conditions for identifying and assisting victims of trafficking. Mr Biaudet made a suggestion above that, in addition to the committees that have been presented, an opinion should also be sought from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I support this proposal made by Mr Biaudet. Mr Heinonen spoke about the rights of people with disabilities, and it was very worrying to hear that Parliament had gone backwards in terms of accessibility after the renovation. Parliament's Disability Cooperation Group has visited a large number of visitors who have needed unhindered access, and therefore accessibility must be very smooth. It is important that access to all places, to all meeting rooms is unhindered. There must be improvement in these matters. As regards the rights of persons with disabilities, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has pointed out that inclusion is not sufficiently achieved in, for example, working life and that public transport accessibility is not achieved as required by the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Councilman also notes that when the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force, the government made a proposal to weaken accessibility provisions at the same time. The accessibility of student housing has been weakened in this accessibility regulation. And the delegate also draws attention to the fact that when a disabled person participates in cultural events he should not have to buy for a person [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u20	Mr President! Finland ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in December 2016, but we really have a lot to do in our society to achieve the objectives. And, yes, this example of Mr Heinonen was very eloquent. If accessibility is a problem in this house where equality legislation is drawn up, then it must be addressed. Apparently, on the side of the Small Parliament, the situation is better and these problems are now particularly affecting this main house. A barrier-free, accessible and equal society is not yet being achieved, although small steps may have been taken in the right direction, and now we must remember that this is not just a question of accessibility but of accessibility for all senses, and one of the key developments is these digital services, which Mr Heinonen has also mentioned. We currently have about a million people who do not have access to digital services at all, and some of this is due to the fact that digital services are not accessible. In addition to taking into account the senses of sight and hearing, consideration should also be given, for example, to better understanding, for example, the use of plain language in digital services. In this report on page 37, I think it is very well stated that ‘the rights of persons with disabilities are formally good in Finland,but there are problems with access to rights’,and that this is followed up by a continuation of the lending process,that’s ‘the dominant attitude climate So we would have to put this attitude work at the heart of the matter. For a long time, therefore, I believe that the problem of attitude is the most serious problem in the realisation of equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u21	Madam President! It is easy to agree with all the above speeches and all the important points raised in this report. I would also particularly like to agree with the last representative's speech at the end of the link between attitudes and the equality of people in society. It is perhaps also something that we can easily forget as legislators, or in some way goes beyond its legislation and does not perceive the link, the relationship between a wider society, attitudes, the whole social climate, discussion and hate speech, which is also strongly highlighted in the report. And what really are our instruments to tackle or at least to have a deep, deepening, reflective discussion of values in Parliament too is an important part of that attitude. A truly broad, comprehensive and important story. And, of course, the hope is that the examples raised in this account will also affect the work we are doing in this house. Of course, the government has the main responsibility — but in general every representative and the whole Finnish Parliament. Perhaps the kind of observation that can be picked up in general from this point of view is the report's attention to the deterioration of human and fundamental rights, and it is considered from a number of points of view. One thing I would also like to bring to this myself relates to the transfiguration, a very topical issue. We have a translation that would require a comprehensive reform as soon as possible, but we have been stuck with this issue for quite a long time. For example, we still have decision-makers who do not necessarily even know that we have a transfiguration which, among other things, continues to violate human integrity through sterilisation. It is a matter of which we have received comments not only from impressive bodies in Finland but also from international level. The Finnish Centre for Human Rights has also just produced a comprehensive report on the overall reform of the transfiguration — the need for it — which it recommends. It also examines this issue from the point of view of human rights and fundamental rights and makes it clear that every time we have received these comments, the way in which the government of the time has acknowledged these comments has always been that we have not reached an agreement on this issue, so nothing can be done about it. This is a rather problematic situation if we are dealing with issues of human rights and fundamental rights, that, as it were, it is enough that we do not reach an agreement. I can see then that there is some weakness in our system and people and their needs are constantly being overshadowed. The report also highlights various minority groups: Sámi, Roma, people with disabilities and immigrants, and asylum seekers in particular. For all these groups, it is extremely important that we do not just talk about individual and individual cases, but we recognise that for all groups there are different structures of society. And it is such an element that we, as legislators, must especially recognize: in what way we
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u22	Today we have to close the sitting at about 2 p.m. — Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u23	Mr President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Toivola spoke well. Indeed, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman raises the attitude of people with disabilities as one of the most important factors in the implementation of their rights. We ourselves, everyone, must improve our own attitudes in order to be more equal to fellow human beings. Representative Toivola raised the need for reform of the transfiguration. Indeed, we are far from being a Translavian who respects human rights in other Nordic countries, which does not require sterilisation, for example, so that he can be exactly the sex he feels. But I will come back to these rights of the disabled, because it is really worrying that, although we have legislation to safeguard the rights of people with disabilities, legislation to safeguard the rights of people with disabilities in working life and an agreement on the rights of persons with disabilities, the mandate nevertheless raises numerous cases of discrimination at work, in transport, in a digital environment where rights cannot be realised. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen spoke very well about these digital rights. Today, so many services are transferred to the network that it is a fundamental right to ensure that people who are unable to operate there online, for example through sensory injuries, that they always have a similar service organised in another way, and that banks also have to be able to provide banking services to people with visual impairments, for example. For example, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman points out that when a joint municipal authority carried out a reform of the public transport system, ticketing equipment that could not be used by visually impaired persons was introduced. Well, the situation was then resolved in such a way that visually impaired persons were allowed to travel free of charge in public transport. But it is important that accessibility is taken into account already at the planning stage and that an environment be created in which it is good for everyone to act. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman also highlights housing services and the fact that housing services for vulnerable groups of people, important services for people with disabilities for life, should not be competitive. And I agree with the appeal of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman for this citizens' initiative to: Not for sale would be handled here carefully and especially from the point of view that these services
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u24	Mr President! Unhindered construction is no more expensive than any other construction if taken into account from the beginning of the design. It is often heard that it is not possible to make it unhindered because it becomes more expensive, but this is by no means true. But the reason why I asked to speak in this connection is that I would like to remind you that before Christmas we had a discussion initiative with Mr Karimäki on the implementation of the rights of people with disabilities in Finland and that it was signed by well over a hundred MPs. It would have been necessary to have that debate here in Parliament, but it has not come this far. That is why I now hope that, if that debate initiative does not go as far as this House, we can even have a thorough, broad and good debate on this issue in this report by the Ombudsman for Equality. That is why I believe that this idea of Mr Biaudet to go to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should be supported, because it would add to the momentum and a broader perspective of this debate. That is why I think it would be very justified for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to also comment on this report by the Ombudsman for Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-04-27-ps-43.u25	Mr President! Let's be brief. Mr Toivola said very wisely that there are a lot of attitudes at stake, but I think that this report by the Ombudsman for Equality also tells us that we now need the attitude to change legislation in such a way that the structures are such that it is possible to tackle discrimination, for example. For example, I do not believe that there is any reasonable reason why the mandate of the Ombudsman for Equality is limited to matters relating to working life. I also think that the fact that a delegate cannot take the matter to the Equal Opportunities and Equal Opportunities Board without the appointment of the victim is unreasonable, because it is very often so that the victim does not want to bring up his or her own case or it is embarrassing. This underreporting is very common. It would be important for these issues to be dealt with as matters. Thirdly, giving the Equality and Equality Board the right to award compensation to victims of discrimination would be a clear improvement in this situation. So it is possible to make and improve legislation in addition to, of course, changing attitudes.
