ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. Today we are focusing on four topical issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u2	The first question is asked by Mr Rinne, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u3	Mr President! More than 70 companies, non-governmental organisations and trade unions require Finland to have a corporate responsibility law on human rights. The law pursued by the first-chain campaign would oblige companies to identify their human rights impact and to avoid and reduce possible negative impacts. The starting point of the law would be that human rights are not a competitive advantage for trade and irresponsibility. This is a very important campaign, Prime Minister Sipilä. It reminds us decision-makers that Finland is lagging behind corporate responsibility legislation in international comparisons. France, Switzerland and the Netherlands have already started to introduce a binding human rights obligation for companies. The SDP has decided to join the First Chain campaign. Prime Minister Sipilä: can the government you run commit to the goals of the first-chain campaign?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u4	Mr President! Minister Lintilä, who is responsible for this, is not present, but I can generally reply in this way that, of course, corporate responsibility matters are important. We have promoted it in the state-owned company, made new guidelines, for example, the tax footprint must be reported transparently, the same things as sustainable development and so on. This is an issue which I consider to be extremely important. The second point that requires careful consideration is which parts of those proposals should be subject to mandatory legislation and which parts of them should depend on the will of the companies themselves in such a way that they also give rise to competitive advantages which boldly go in the direction you described, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Rinne continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u6	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, the aim of that campaign is to ensure that all companies comply with human rights. Juha Beurling, Secretary-General of the Consumer Union, has stated that no one will consciously support irresponsible business with their purchasing decisions, but the consumer in the jungle of responsible claims is powerless. Consumers want to be confident that the products purchased are not motivated by child labour, forced labour or other human rights violations. Kotipizza Group is involved in this campaign, and Tommi Tervanen, the company’s CEO, says: “Many companies comply with human rights principles. Transparency and accountability of the supply chain are in the interests of both customers and suppliers. We have nothing to hide and should not have any other Finnish company.” Prime Minister, I have visited several companies around Finland over the past few months, and the message is clear: irresponsibility must not be a competitive advantage. Prime Minister Sipilä, the SDP is involved in the campaign, is the government involved?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u7	Mr President! This legislation remains the responsibility of Minister Lintilä. Let's do it the way we wait.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u10	Let me ask you a few questions. The next supplementary question is Mr Ojala-Niemelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u11	Mr President! During this parliamentary term, we have seen how the government has hammered the legislation that has been made for the protection of workers in the right way. No tool smaller than a real sledgehammer has been found. At first, an active model was provided for, which is unfair, because the number of services varies widely from one locality to another and there are very different opportunities for short-term work across Finland. In our remote regions, in particular, the active model does not activate, only punishes for lack of work. In the spending limits debate, the line continued and the government decided to reduce the protection against dismissal in companies with fewer than 20 employees. So I ask you, Minister Lindström: why have you rejected the tripartite preparation? Why did you put employees in a position of inequality based on the size of the company?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u12	Madam President! Seriously, an active model is the work of this government, but so are many other decisions. And when you said that we had been hammered, a huge pile of decisions were made in the last budget debate, which are an advantage for the wage-earner and the unemployed. They'll help him find a job. If I take one thing: we, among other things, raised the 100 % wage subsidy to 4000, we took other measures to specify the wage subsidy and, as the largest one, we have raised this identification of problems of working ability and the development of individual working capacity processes in such a way that this will certainly be important projects for both this government and the next government, which must be promoted. It is true that the government has tightened up, but a lot of improvements have also been made, so that is a pretty one-eyed argument to say that we are merely hammered.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u14	Mr President! My question is of principle and suits the Prime Minister well. We all remember how Prime Minister Katainen commissioned a report from professors Castells and Himanen, which was published in part as a book on the working model of the information society, and in this context the Finnish trade union movement was considered to be one of the four main success factors for Finnish well-being and the development of working life. Now I have to ask you, when the situation is possibly rather dramatic in Finland now in relation to the weakening of this security of employment, the weakening of the security of dismissal: how do you assess the importance of the trade union movement and the social partners now as a builder of the well-being of society to give it a better value?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u15	Mr President! I am not the Prime Minister, but I am responsible for these labour market issues. It is true that the situation is worrying and the government takes this seriously. Thus, the last discussion within the government today has been about, among other things, this protection against dismissal and the elements that we are prepared to do with this protection against dismissal, which can be moved within it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u18	Mr President! This corporate responsibility law is absolutely essential not only for guiding the world economy into sustainable rules of play for human rights but also for protecting the environment. In many countries, these corporate responsibility laws include not only human rights but also environmental responsibility, and these often go hand in hand with development policy. In other words, the right of local residents to livelihoods and the right to develop their own area of residence is also linked to the fact that they have the opportunity to manage their own natural resources and that people's rights to develop their own environment will not be unduly taken away by the fact that, for example, the exploitation of natural resources is solely in the hands of foreign operators. Therefore, the Corporate Responsibility Act is also strongly linked to the achievement of sustainable development objectives and environmental responsibility. How, Minister Tiilikainen, are you prepared to promote environmental liability issues in this preparation of the corporate responsibility law, and are you promoting this issue, getting both human rights and environmental responsibility forward, and Finnish companies that invest in these will be able to compete?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u19	Mr President! The question and direction to which Mr Niinistö extended this is good and valuable, and I have had good and constructive discussions with the actors in this campaign on the First Chain on these opportunities for corporate responsibility legislation. It has identified the opportunities it contains, but also the problems that arise if we start to write things like this in the law, such as the size of companies that would actually be able to demonstrate that corporate responsibility. In other words, there are certainly many problematic details along the way, but, as the Prime Minister said, this direction and the objective of ensuring that companies act responsibly towards human rights, workers' rights and the environment must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u20	Mr President! Finnish companies, however, treat employees fairly. They are fair and they take care of the environment and are therefore very important to the well-being of the entire Finnish society. This is our observation when we keep talking to Finnish entrepreneurs. That is why I would like to point out in this perspective that, now that in this way the SDP and the Greens place great emphasis on this responsibility of companies for human rights and the environment, and so on, it very often means more standards and more bureaucracy, and that is not what we Finns want.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u22	Mr President! I believe that this is still a matter for Minister Lintilän's property, but this question is such as to open up the matter that, in this corporate responsibility law, it is precisely those countries that have made progress here that assume that this responsibility, which is regulated by national legislation in their own country, would also be applied abroad. In other words, it is precisely here that the competitive gap and the advantage that it is not possible to trample on the environment or human rights to gain unfairly too good a position on the market there. In other words, this is precisely a level playing field and a level playing field, rather than an over-bureaucratic approach to national legislation, provided that it can be properly verified. This bureaucratic aspect is important, and that is why it is difficult to write the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u23	Mr President! A corporate responsibility law would be very welcome. Unfortunately, there are still companies in the world that do not respect human rights in their production chains. Child labour, for example, is still being used. People work in unsafe and dangerous conditions, for example in the textile industry. Trade union activities are blocked in many countries. The global production chains of companies are very long and complex, but Finnish companies should nevertheless have a responsibility to find out that human rights are not violated at any point in the production chain, including on the other side of the globe. Unresponsible companies can currently gain a competitive advantage by trampling on human rights, and it also encourages the shift of production to bad conditions. Mr President! The Prime Minister replied in the same way that it was necessary to assess whether progress could be made on a voluntary basis. But wouldn't a binding corporate responsibility law be responsible Finnish companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u24	Is the Prime Minister taking this? Prime Minister Cinnamon, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u25	Mr President! We are talking about a whole that will certainly be matters for the next parliamentary term and for the next government negotiations. This type of thing requires careful preparation, and we are well aware that it would by no means be possible to do so in the autumn of the Parliament. But when we talk about corporate responsibility and everything about it, I am willing to promote them. Whatever the habit is, it takes careful preparation, just like all the other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u26	Madam President! Responsibility is certainly at the heart of every successful business. Surely, even in order to avoid reputational disadvantages, they want to act in accordance with corporate responsibility, bearing responsibility for both the environment and social responsibility. At the moment, for example, in public procurement, in the procurement law, we have the possibility of categorically excluding companies with, for example, gross human rights violations or similar, forced labour or something like that in the production chain or subcontracting chain. Such companies do not even need to be involved in competitive tendering. I would have liked to ask the corresponding minister, or who feels it is their own: how can we ensure that SMEs are able to bear the corporate responsibility — which I am sure many of them want to bear, but they also have far less chance of resolving their own subcontracting chains and also of finding out what kind of working conditions, such as in a given factory, are at the end of the subcontracting chain? I would have liked this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u27	Mr President! I am in charge of the acquisition law and, in that respect, I am in charge of this. The new procurement law allows — even the old one — to be competitive in such a way that these social criteria should be taken into account. Now many municipalities, many cities, have adopted this strategy in their own right, and I think it is a great direction, because we have EUR 30 billion of public procurement per year — it is not a negligible amount — and we can do a lot of things there. Well, how about a unit where you don't have that kind of expertise? We have set up such a network, a network of means which even those who do not necessarily know how to make it competitive can use and use, and then take account of these social criteria, which are extremely important, for example in the management of long-term unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u28	Mr President! Mr Tavio, I would like to say to you that I have been following closely for 20 years how underpaid workers, lack of health and safety at work and in many ways the violation of human rights have specifically moved work from labour-intensive sectors out of Finland, so you have quite a misconception about this. Human rights cannot be trade. Allowing human rights to be trampled on outside Finland’s borders is not just a question of human rights. At the same time, as has been said, the competitiveness of Finnish work and Finnish companies will be undermined and the position of responsible operators in the market will be affected. Irresponsibility, Prime Minister Sipilä, cannot be a competitive advantage. Mr President! Now I would like to ask the Prime Minister: do you have the willingness, with your export promotion trips, to bring corporate responsibility and human rights to the top of the chain on what you are talking about in the visited countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u29	Mr President! Principles in these corporate human rights responsibilities have been agreed by the UN and Finland is committed to them. I talk about social responsibility and human rights responsibility whenever I deal with companies. Next week I will be in Portugal and Spain on the export promotion journey, and it is part of the standard pattern that I am going to tell companies about these, that is obviously clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u30	Since there has been a great deal of talk this week about land markets, we will move on to that theme, and the debate will be launched by Mr Meri, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u31	Madam President! The Finns believe that the country is not available for sale. In recent times, we have unfortunately had to read how the citizens of a foreign country own strategically extremely important targets, for example, along the shipping routes of Turku. The fairway has, as it were, been ‘mined’. This is by no means the only case. Suspicious real estate transactions have been carried out by the eastern neighbour for a long time since the deal was free, and often from places of strategic importance. There's going to be extortion and apparently a possibility of a right of first sale. However, this is not enough for the Finns. Large land trades between the EU and citizens from outside the EEA should be banned, with the exception of perhaps a small cottage trade. Minister of the Interior, you've known in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u32	Mr President! Of course, we as a government as best we can, and certainly all Finnish governments for decades, are working to ensure security and national security. According to the Police Act, the Chief Police Officer has an obligation to keep the Minister of the Interior aware of all the functions and operations of the police and, under this bill, of course, I have been informed in good time by the Chief Police Officer of an operation of this kind, which of course was known to raise public interest in Finland and, when foreign property and foreign persons were also suspected, may also be of interest abroad, and for this reason, of course, it has been necessary for the leadership of the Republic also to be aware of the issue when questions arise. In other respects, the government is promoting legislative proposals, including restrictions on the acquisition of real estate. The Minister of Defence is responsible for this government proposal and may supplement it in this regard. It is important that cooperation:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u33	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u34	Mr President! Yes, Minister, you told me what I said you knew in advance, but you did not tell me whether there was anything else significant going on that we should take into account. True Finns, for example, are concerned. Could you answer that, please? You didn't answer. There's a lot of laws going on here, such as social media and intelligence laws. Why don't we hurry this up? However, this has been known for years. We have already read in the press in 2014 that these strategic transactions are taking place, and often companies are set up that do not start to operate. I'm going to ask you one more time. What things should we know? Did you inform us enough? They're laughing around here, sort of like yesterday at the Prime Minister's meeting when the Russian Prime Minister was here. At least I'm not laughing a bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u35	Mr President! We have established practices in Finland. Of course, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, as a board of government and President, regularly reviews all possible phenomena. On the basis of the report, both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence have held a more detailed debate around the debate that has taken place over this last weekend's investigation. As usual, we're moving forward. There is no acute cause for concern which should now be informed here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u36	Madam President! For a long time it has been thought that from any direction of the air, but in any case from outside the EU, land and real estate transactions in Finland involve the laundering of criminal money. Hundreds or thousands of these trades have already taken place during this millennium. Minister, how well is the government aware that these land and real estate transactions do not involve money that has been acquired, for example, as a result of drug trafficking or trafficking in human beings or, for example, through illicit arms trafficking? Has this been sorted out in any way?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u37	Mr President! Of course, investigating and investigating financial crimes is a normal task for the police, and the CID in particular is doing that work. If there is a message in this operation in the Turku region, it is that Finland implements its laws as the rule of law for a wide range of subjects and entities and makes effective action and is able to cooperate with the authorities even in a major operation. Naturally, the krp is always investigating and investigating suspicions of money laundering, and when the threshold for pre-trial investigations is exceeded, it is also taking place. Of course, it is important that we, for our part, ensure that there is sufficient resources and that legislation also allows sufficient interference in these dubious activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u38	A supplementary question to the chairman of the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u39	Mr President! It is of particular interest now that, after these transactions have been made, has there been a preconclusion? If I or you, Mr. Minister, buy, then we usually know where the money is from and what kind of income you have, but when you come from outside the EU, will we find out where this money comes from, where this huge land deal or real estate deal is made?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u40	Mr President! In this respect, of course, trade is carried out for money laundering, just as in any other commodity. After all, we have a very strict and constantly stricter money laundering oversight obligation in banking legislation itself, and when it comes to the payment of Finnish banks, we will certainly be very careful to see how the money is moving. On the other hand, with regard to the regulation of real estate transactions in particular, in this regard the government is indeed preparing a bill at the Ministry of Defence, under the direction of the Minister of Defence, on this issue — and I am sure he will be able to say more about it — and it will be brought to Parliament as soon as a bill has been presented in good form under the direction of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u41	Madam President! The government knows that something must be done about these strategic real estate transactions, and there is a great deal of concern about them. That is why I must thank the government for having a record of this in your government programme. And now you've had a statement, and I'm sure you'll bring it here in the fall. This is where Mr Meri said that this law would be rushed. I personally see that the law is in the right direction, but there are still a lot of things left in it, for example, for financial crime such as the Helm of Airisto, money laundering and so on. It would be better to reject it with a permit law similar to the one that has existed in Finland up to the year 2000. I would like you to reply that, on the contrary, you could be so patient as to be able to look at these things together so that we can have good legislation — legislation that works — but in your reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u42	Madam President! Mr Kymäläinen is well aware of this stage in the drafting of the law. Indeed, during the summer it was in the consultation, and these feedbacks from the consultation have now been taken into account — including those you mentioned — and the Government's proposal is currently in the final stage, which is due to be submitted to Parliament in November. It will soon be going to the Ministry of Justice's law review, and, depending on that and the translation, we will receive it from Parliament, which is due to go to the end of November. If you do well, we can begin by trying to aim if urgency is desired. However, in any case, laws should be put through during this Parliament and then into force from the beginning of 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u43	Madam President! I raised the issue of foreign land ownership during Parliamentary Question Time in 2009 and was accused of intimidation and incitement to hatred.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u46	Madam President! In this context, I am not going to go over a list of potential items that have been or could be covered, but the starting point of this law, the government proposal, is, of course, to ensure national security in connection with real estate transactions. I am quite convinced that it will provide good tools for defeating these concerns, too, as Mr Heinonen put it. For example, I think that this state right of pre-emption is a good improvement on this issue. In substance, there will be no greater change after this consultation, but I can assure you that there are several ways to tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u47	Mr President! This very large operation in the Turku archipelago raises a wide range of questions. The operation was well-founded. One of the things you can see is this amount of confiscated money and other things. Minister Niinistö explained how the drafting of the law was progressing and, more or less, in what timetable. Do you think that this bill will also include the possibility that the property that has been used to obtain this, is it said, illegal money, which will prove to be precisely the kind of property that has played a central role in the acquisition of this property, can then be confiscated on the side of the State if this case is so to speak clear?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u48	Mr President! This question goes outside my expert, but I'm trying to figure it out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u49	Mr President! After all, these security-related real estate transactions became very heavily recorded in the spring of 2015, when the Government Programme of Sipilä was implemented. It was written there in particular, and with the intention of updating the legislation. There has been careful work done, and we are about to wait for what comes out of the oven. It is a question of internal conditions for external security, to be precise. Before I ask a question, let me also say that, although the government and the municipalities have a great deal of influence in these matters, there is no obligation to sell the country. You don't have to sell the land. That that too should be taken into account at national level. You don't have to sell. My question is this: when there is a shortage in these matters and the Bulgarians have the opportunity to take action in this regard, has the future legislative update taken account of the opportunities for rotation in this area?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u50	Mr President! Unfortunately, my impression is that even after this legislation, if it goes through Parliament, there is a chance of playing for the bulvans. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u51	At this stage, this issue has been dealt with. I'm sure we'll come back to this many more times.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u52	Next question, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u53	Madam President! During our last Question Time, we started a little discussion on the equity savings accounts. At the time, I wondered how, at the same time as the freeze on the indexes of pensioners and the unemployed, another tax advantage favouring the wealthy is about to be introduced. The Ministry of Finance has estimated a price of EUR 160 million. Minister Orpo, in your reply you said that the equity savings account will not cause tax losses, because taxes will only be deferred and will be paid when the money is withdrawn from the account. However, it appears from the own studies of the Ministry of Finance that a significant part of the tax revenue would not be received permanently. In the case of withholding tax on foreign dividends alone, the Ministry of Finance has spoken of potential losses of EUR 56 million. I ask again, Minister Orpo: how can you justify such an investment account, the benefits of which go to the wealthiest Finnish, financial institutions providing investment services and foreign investors, and at the same time the poor are still being cut?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u54	Madam President! First of all, the starting point is that there are some 800,000 stock savers and small investors in Finland and that some 400,000 of them have annual dividend income of less than EUR 500. So this is indeed a way for ordinary Finns to save, and with this stock savings account we want to bring it closer and easier for ordinary Finns as a form of saving and investing. Approximately EUR 85 billion of money lies in Finnish bank accounts. If we could target some of these equity savings accounts, it could have a very large positive impact on both saving and the economy. Well, then to this tax loss referred to by Mr Arhinmäki. Indeed, the working group report from the Ministry of Finance considered this possibility that if such a similar investment account were abroad, then these tax losses would occur. But now that we have made this presentation, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u55	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u56	Madam President! You, Minister Orpo, have spoken of national capitalism, that this will help ordinary Finnish employees to invest, to trade shares. I wonder if, for example, the nurses from whom you have cut holiday money are now investing EUR 50,000 in stock exchange shares.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u57	Madam President! These capitalization agreements and investment envelopes, to which you refer and which have been, above all, the way in which rich and wealthy people are invested and saved, now go to tax in this context. In practice, it has been possible to raise revenue duty-free, and these are now being changed in this context. So now the small investor has access to the same intrument that today has only been used by the rich and the wealthy. I think this is a big issue of equality. I think we should also think about the 700,000 to 800,000 Finns, and hopefully now hundreds of thousands more who want to start saving for smaller incomes. You can simply trade within its equity savings account and there will be no tax consequences. Not until you get out of there, you have to pay the taxes. I think this is an excellent thing. We need to think about the whole and find such elements to help all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u58	Madam President! These insurance cover and capitalisation agreements have not only been a means of circumventing taxation, they have also been a means of concealing assets, and they have been suspected of being used for insider dealing. Why are these things allowed to continue? Why are they not banned altogether? The second question is that when Sweden has had a similar arrangement, although it does not have this ceiling of EUR 50000, let us see what has happened in Sweden. There has not been an increase in the share capital of ordinary people. Sweden has only increased its investment in those who have already had large wealth. They have begun to take advantage of this tax advantage. And now this fundamental question is: It is good that people save, it is good that people invest in shares. But why does the government want to be cut off from the poorest in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u59	Madam President! You are giving the wrong impression now, Mr Arhinmäki, because we are putting precisely these capitalist agreements, the investment envelopes, on the tax. And they are within the Finnish banking system, they are subject to very strict supervision by the Finnish supervisory authorities. So now we bring an employee, an ordinary Finnish instrument that is easy, simple to use. I think it is very valuable that the Finnish economy can go in a simple way to save, collect wealth, think about its future. Think of the 85 billion that lie on those regular accounts. Now we have to give these ordinary account holders such an instrument. As far as Sweden is concerned, however, I believe that Sweden has generated hundreds of thousands of new accounts with this SP account and that the nation's capitalism has increased, but there is a difference: there is no upper limit,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u60	Mr President! Yes, there was such a little misleading information from the Minister that insurance cover is supposed to be partly taxed, only when the funds are being raised. However, they can be accumulated almost endlessly and then distributed as a tax-free inheritance or, according to the current rules, raised abroad in countries with zero or low taxes, and this is what is happening. Every TV viewer at home may wonder if I have the $50,000 to invest in this. The fact is,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u62	Madam President! We heard the truth again, but, first of all, let us start with the fact that capitalist agreements and investment envelopes were not taxed last season. And which party was the finance minister then?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u63	Congressman Kankaanniemi, a supplementary question. After that, we'll move on to the babies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u64	Madam President! The Finns themselves take a positive view of this idea and model of equity savings. I believe we will accept that, but of course the details will have to be weighed, as always. It is also an excellent thing to be able to activate, as it were, lazy funds at zero interest rates in those accounts — that is a good goal. The question arises as to whether these assets will only go into the equity savings account for the benefit of large listed companies or whether a model can be found for new start-ups and innovative new destinations.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u65	Mr President! This will start, and the bill will include a proposal specifically relating to the investment in the shares of listed companies. I would say more broadly, as I described earlier, that this is how we get the lazy capital to move — you used a good term — that is, the lazy capital to move into the hands of Finnish companies. I hope that this will also provide a boost for Finnish companies to go on the list. In Sweden, for example, companies are listed several times as many as in Finland each year. The fact that this capital would then be found in the Finnish population supports that Finnish ownership, folk capitalism. I believe that these instruments will generate more returns, which can then be channelled back to these unlisted, small and growth companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u66	Tomorrow we'll be celebrating the national baby's day. That's why we're talking about birth rates and babies for the rest of the time. This is started by Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u67	Madam President! The message of the baby’s day is indeed timely, as the number of births in Finland has been falling for seven consecutive years. Fewer children were born the last time in the 1868 hunger year. However, Finns dream of larger family homes than they actually get. And the reasons for low birth rates are economic concerns, the strain of working life and a negative attitude. Unfortunately, the government has given a negative message to families about the services and subsidies of families with children — such as the index freeze of child benefit, these cuts and the removal of child allowance. The main benefit for families with children is child benefit, which should be strengthened across the board, but our parliamentary group also proposes a one-off EUR 1000 baby allowance, which would be a positive message from the state to families. I'm asking, are you going to take this idea?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u68	Mr President! Indeed, we can all rejoice together about the new Finns born in our country this year, despite the record low number of these babies. Last year I was able to participate in this similar baby’s day when it was celebrated for the first time. And the subject is most important, as it were, a perspective on what Finland now seems to be born with the eyes of a generation today and, above all, in the future. I think so, Mr Räsänen, that if this Finnish birth rate could be corrected with a thousand notes, we would certainly all think that perhaps it would be a reasonable investment. But at the same time, as you yourself rightly said in your question, this is a slightly more complex issue. That is why I am terribly pleased that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture and the wider state administration, we have now put in place the preparation of the strategy for children as a basis for the next government programme, so that in Finland much more than just social policy would become more family-friendly.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u69	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. I am very pleased to have a lot of questions on this subject, and this will be continued by Mrs Räsänen Päivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u70	Madam President! It would also have the effect of giving women support to a positive decision to receive a child even when the pregnancy is unexpected or the life situation is challenging. It is untenable, however, that more than 9,000 abortions are carried out every year in the welfare society on social grounds. The Itu project at Tampere NNKY helps women in many ways in unexpected pregnancy situations and also in post-abortion crises, and last year the Itu work also received the Minna Canth Prize. My question is: would you be prepared to familiarise yourself with this project and extend this approach to a national level, so that the options for abortion are genuinely provided with cross-sectoral support?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u71	Mr President! Of course, the debate where we are talking about children born will inevitably include unborn children. Above all, listening to this debate, I am sure that their ideas, which have become unwittingly pregnant as a result of, for example, sexual violence, or the situation of families in which a child has long been wanted but has not been heard, are present in this debate, and I also think that thinking of a more family-friendly Finland means that we should be able to address each other with dignity in themes that are exceptionally sensitive and also personal for some. I believe that any activity that develops a person’s mental encounter with difficult health - care situations is justified. That is why, for example, I have discussed with women's clinic representatives and more broadly with midwives how, in a situation where pregnancy has been interrupted by miscarriages, we could ensure that mental support is also better available. I also bring a situation when you face a surprising number of women in your life.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u72	Mr President! In the minds of many families, babies run far away, and one of the factors behind this, not the only one, is uncertainty in working life. I am pleased that the government withdrew the law on the increase in fixed-term employment, but the facilitation of dismissal goes in the same direction and creates uncertainty. If we think about those low-income families with children, in fact, half of poor families with children have one parent working — half of the parents working — so that is not always the best social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u75	Mr President! First of all, the subject is extremely important. When talking about babies, I just saw that when 50,000 babies were born in Finland last year, the size of the retirement age groups is about 110,000. In other words, we really need to be concerned about raising the birth rate in Finland, and then, of course, we need a wide range of measures to support families. In that case, the question of income is one of the essentials. In my view, fiscally speaking, we have now made the right decisions: 600 million have been spent on reducing the reduction in labour income for those on low incomes, and it has been a great help, and we have now made improvements to the basic reduction, which will then also affect the transfer of income there. But I think that what you have raised is worth looking at in the context of the reform of the social security system. It must look at income transfers, labour income, taxation and the whole of it to see how we can best help and support and combat poverty and child poverty in families with children and thus prevent:
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u76	Madam President! As has already been said jointly, in Finland, the share of poor children in all children is really worrying. The situation has not been made any easier by the fact that after these cuts and index freezes on social benefits, for example, in 94 the family still received EUR 513 child allowance for three underage children, so in 2019 this will be EUR 319. The Ombudsman for Children, Tuomas Kurttila, has strongly expressed this concern and has also put forward several proposals in the Yearbook of the Ombudsman for Children to eradicate poverty in families with children. He suggests, among other things, that secondary education should be made free of charge, that the right to early childhood education should be restored to full-time education for all children and that municipalities should use supplementary and preventive income support more to support the leisure activities of deprived families.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u77	Mr President! Perhaps the picture of the everyday life of Finnish children and families has long been divided into two. We are lucky to have the largest number of families with the most basics: there is plenty of resources in parenting, and there are enough euros in the family account, even though there may be a tough one. And then there is the smaller group that is struggling with a great many problems, economic problems, and we have to find out that we have family poverty with children. How has this been answered? I am familiar with that presentation by the Commissioner for Children, which I was allowed to receive for my part. First of all, I think it is very important that the lowest maternity, paternity and parental allowances increase from the beginning of next year by EUR 80 per month. It is a very important act in the livelihood of the poorest families. In addition, with regard to the second-degree costs of studying, Mr Terho has put forward a proposal for a study material supplement to study aid, which will help specifically with these costs in secondary education. In addition, child benefit has been increased for single parents. — To mention a few of these acts which the government has done to combat family poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u78	Madam President! First of all, as the father of a three - year - old boy, I want to encourage all fathers to take their paternity leave. It's very important. It supports mom and women. From time to time, there is a debate on how young women are not employed in full-time employment because of fear of the cost of a possible pregnancy. In fact, the costs of parenting are divided, particularly in women-dominated sectors, which has weakened the ability of these sectors to pay wages. Motherhood is the most natural thing and the most important thing in this world. We have to do better than this. After all, the government has supported this in such a way that we have provided for a lump sum of EUR 2500 to be paid to the employer for the family leave of a female worker. This is a very important reform carried out by the government. The Blues would also like to see an increase in home care support during the next term of government, despite the fact that some of the parties in this Chamber are not in favour of it. I would like to ask you, Minister: How do you see the continuation in this regard? For example, would raising home care support be the solution for increasing the number of children in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u79	Mr President! Home care support as one of the current blocks, as part of family leave, is a popular form of support. According to my notes, about nine out of ten families use it on a scale, few for three years, but in small parts over a few months very many families. If, therefore, families are asked, this support is considered important. But just as you pointed out in your question, Mrs Elo, in terms of the importance of parental responsibility for care, both of child-parent interaction and of equalising the labour market status of women, I am encouraging it and I believe that in the next parliamentary term, there will be a reform of family leave in Finland — it seems to be a broad sense of unity. But at the same time, it is good to remember that we do not have to wait for the reform of family leave. We now have 54 days of family leave for fathers under quota, together with our own little child. Finnish fathers, use that support.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u80	Mr President! The baby’s future is predicted by the extent of the support networks around him. In addition to parents, grandparents are particularly important supporters. However, our system, based on the concept of a nuclear family, provides very little support for the participation of grandparents in the lives of their grandchildren. Legal protection for the maintenance of the relationship is weak, and it is not possible, for example, to obtain day care services or health services in several municipalities in order to make it easier for grandparents to stay with them. I would like to ask: is there anything in the government's mind that might facilitate and support the position of grandparents in the lives of young children?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u81	Mr President! Thank you for the important question. To complete the picture created by Minister Orpo of the dependency ratio of the Finnish population: In 1948, 108,000 babies were born in Finland — already in their 70 ’ s, some very grandparents ’ age. Now last year, 50,000 babies were born. Many are biologically grandparents, and many might also want to play the role of grandparents without a biological relationship. That is why I think it is important that, as a society, we also support voluntary organisations, for example, to be present as an older Finnish, older citizen in the lives of young children, even if their own biological grandchildren do not exist. As far as grandparents are concerned, the theme has been strongly present in the Maintenance and Meeting Act under the Ministry of Justice, which is now being discussed by Parliament: how to secure a relationship with grandparents in divorce situations. Since the law has been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, I know that there is now a point in the law that it is important and obligatory to maintain and maintain other important relationships than relationships with parents. I think that law can be read as support and protection for grandparents.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u82	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Svenska folkpartiet vill göra Finland till världens barnvänligaste land. Vi tycker att vi har under förutsättningar för det ox. Då behövs en famileledighetsreform och också en reform av småbarnspedagogiken, så att vi skulle kunna erbjuda alla barn som har phyllt tre år 20 timmar avgiftsfri småbarnspedagogik i månaden.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u83	Mr President! This must be one of the themes of our social debate for eternity. When income support is supposed to be last-minute support, it should not be a priority for any kind of security, such as child benefit, but when we know, for example, that a group of single parents overemphasises as recipients of income support because of their strict financial situation, I recognise that this is probably a typical issue between basic security and last-round support that needs to be resolved in the context of the overall reform of social security. With regard to other issues that can be supported, for example, by single-parent families — the government also thinks very much the same about the importance of this issue — I think it is very good that, in line with the early childhood education fees, the Minister for Education and Culture made a significant count and that 6,000 families were included in the so-called zero-payment category, free early childhood education. There are certainly the most single - parent families and low - income families among them, and that is why this act was also important in social policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u84	It was a good idea to end this Question Time on this subject. Now just from words to deeds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u85	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u86	Irade the Talman! Det hör inte till vardage att riksdage diskuterar ett lagstiftningsinitiativ från Ålands lagting. Senast det heide var år 2006 då lagtinget lämnade ett entitiativ. Det initiale handlade också om Europaparlamentsplatsen. Det ox visar på frågans dignitet. Sedan Finland och Åland blev medlem av Europeiska unionen år 1995 har frågan om en Europaparlamentsplats för Åland blivet en sten i skon på Åland då Åland inte har komenserats direkt för den lagstiftningsbehörighet man gett bort till Brussels. Finland har i practicen två parliament, ricksdage och Ålands lagting. Åland har ändå inte compenserats på samma sätt som övriga landet med en egen direkt representation i Europaparlamentet. Det auri initiativet kommer, om det godkänns, att ändra vallagen så att en av Finlands Europaparlamentariker i luet nästa vår skulle väljas från landskapet Åland genom att Åland skulle utgöra en egen valkrets. Det skulle kompensera Åland för den lagstiftningsbehörighet som Ålands lagting gav ifrån sig i och med EU-medlemskapet. Sedan Europeiska rådets öte i juni har det variant klart att Finland får en extra Parliamentsplats genom Brexit. Europeiska rådets beslut att tilldela Finland en extra plats i nasta Europaparlamentsval ger oss en unik chans att tilldela Åland en parliamentplats på ett sätt så att övriga antal mandat för de finländska rikspartierna hålls oförändrat på samma nivå som vid Senaste EU-val. Landskapet Åland har sedan Finlands inträde i EU consecvent constaterat behovet av en egen Europaparlamentsplats på grund av att landskapet inte kan kompenseras med samma inflytande i EU:s ministerråd. Lagmotioner i detta ärende har gjorts år 1994, 2007 och 2018 i tillagg till det förra initialt av lagtinget år 2006. Landskapet Ålands särställning grundar sig på internationalell rätt och är helt unik i Europa. Det finns också jämförbara exempel på andra autonomic regioner i Europa i mosma storleksordning som Åland som har eller har haft egen plats i Europaparlamentet. Grönland utgjorde en egen valkrets i Danmarks EU-valtils Grönland lämnade EU 1985. Den automaoma tysktalande regionen i Belgien med 70000 invånare, som har ungefär momma procentuella befolkningsstorlek som Åland, har också en egen Parliamentsplats. Grönland och den automaoma tyska regionen i Belgien visar att Ålands befolkningsmässiga storlek inte är något hider för att Åland skulle få direkt representation i Europaparlamentet. I motsats till Danmark och Belgien har Finland ändå inte beslutat att ge ett av landsets mandat i Europaparlamentet till Åland. Det kan vi ändra på genom detta initialitiv, och genom detta initialitiv kan vi se till att Åland får en plats som är constitutionellt bjätttigad. Irade the Talman! Redan i regeringens proposition kring Finlands EU-anslutning poängterades Ålands särställning. För att kompensera att Åland även överlät lagstiftningsbehörighet till unionen beslöt man att förhandla om att Finland skulle få en ytterligare plats i Europaparlamentet som skulle tilldelas Åland. Genom detta beslut constaterade dåvarande regering i practiceken att en åländsk representant i Europaparlamentet är constitutionellt berättigad. Frågan om en Åländsk Parliamentsplats äcktes även år 2009 i samband med Lisbonfördraget. Regeringen försökte då förhandla fram en extra Europaparlamentsplats som skulle öronmärkas till Åland. Regeringen Vanhanen fattade också ett viktigt principbeslut i frågan som säger: ‘RegeringenmedverkartillattvecklalandskapetsinflytandepåarbetiEuropaparlamentetochfortsätterattikommandeförhandlingarpågemenskapsnivåomfördelningavparlamentsplatserhävdaÅlandsinternationellasärställningochsjälvsjälvstyrantastetus. “ Grundlagsutskottet har vid tidigare tillalfällen fäst vikt vid detta principbeslut och har aven ansett att det är viktigt med fortsat discussion på europeisk nivå om Ålands medinflytande i Europaparlamentet. Statsminister Juha Sipilä har också uttalat sig i en columnn i Helsingin Sanomat om att Åland måste höras gällande Finlands extra brexitplats. Vi är mycket tacksamma för att statesministern lyft upp frågan om Ålands påverkningsmöjligheter i Europaparlamentet, för frågan om en åländsk Parliamentsplats kan lösas om den politiska grain finns. Grundlagsutskottet konstaterade redan år 2006 att det inte finns några constituutionella Hinder för att Åland skulle tilldelas en egen Parliamentsplats. Grundlagsutskottet har konstaterat att frågan sist och slutligen är en politisk fråga. Då Finland nu får en extra plats i Europaparlamentet kapas en unik öjlighet att verkställa tidigare principbeslut och säkerstalla Ålands representation i Europaparlamentet utan att minska på antat mandat som är tillgängliga för rikspartierna. Det är nuög tid att ta den raus chansen.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u87	Mr President! I would like to point out that this potentially future extra place for Finland is not an extra place but a compensation for our current under-representation. In other words, there are currently too few seats in Finland, and that is why we should have that one place out there if we do not completely remove all the places that go with Brexit, as should be the case. But in the letter at this reading, However, I think that the Åland days are fluently ignoring the essential argument that, in the case of the division of seats in the European Parliament, such a province, the size of a small provincial centre city, would be in proportion to the population of the rest of the country, even 15 times over-represented in the European Parliament. It is in itself a good thing that Åland has the opportunity to contribute to EU affairs. I see, however, that its influence must take place with the right weight in relation to the population in the province. The means of influence through the parliament can also be developed and improved and perhaps better taken into account by the self-government of the region. However, for reasons of equity, this proposed extra meppa place for Åland cannot be accepted. The voice must be equal throughout the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u88	Madam President! I do, of course, respect the initiative of the provincial days, but I agree with Mr Mäkelä's view that it would be rather unusual for us to have this electoral system based on these figures, that we should ignore this numerical comparison so completely. When Mr Löfström mentioned here that we have a place here in Finland for all the national parties, this is not the case. From time to time the Christian Democrats have had a place in the European Parliament, and in that sense, for example, it would be very difficult for me, as a party leader, to explain to my own people, who have more than 300 delegates from Hanko to Utsjoki and a large number of regional councillors and a group in Parliament, why we could not be equal in the election to fight for this future place, but would be automatically ignored by granting it to the Autonomous Community. Mr Löfström himself quite interestingly pointed out these self-government regions in Europe, where the seats are under quota, but we must remember that they are always linked to these electoral systems which are in the country in question. For example, this mentioned division of seats in Belgium: the electoral system is also quite different. In that sense, one must remember that each country has had its own way of pounding these places and also of seeing that every vote has the same balanced and equal weight in this electoral system. Our electoral system is of this kind, and in that sense I believe that this cannot be changed in this way. Otherwise, I have to say that in these 73 places, which are now being released from there with the Brexit, you are certainly not talking about extra seats. I remember during the previous parliamentary term when the Finnish meps there together fought for it when the new Member States came along that we would not lose seats even further. So you can say that the last time this place was re-allocated Finland was able to prevent us from losing more seats, but even then there was a risk that we would be under-represented, and this now corrects the fact that we are closer to the number of seats that we are entitled to by the population.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u89	Madam President! Indeed, with Britain's breakup of the EU, 73 European parliamentarians, the British, will leave Parliament and then 27 of them will be allocated to 14 Member States and one of them will then be distributed to Finland. It has been pointed out here that the purpose of this redistribution is, of course, to level out the relativeity of mep representation between the Member States. In that sense, it is not surprising in itself that the Finnish Government is positive about such a proposal. Of course, the Åland County Government and the provincial days have been campaigning for the coming of the Meppä site, such a quota place, to Åland for years. They have also been duly consulted on this matter by several governments. If you think about this new division, then Finland’s share of one mep site would be 39,000 inhabitants — and these are now the relevant figures. In relative terms, the lowest population in all countries in the EU is represented by Malta, whose six representatives each have 72,000 Maltese members behind them. A possible Åland mep would represent just under 30,000 people. These figures alone show that there is only what can be done to make such a change in this area. This is Åland County Day. In this regard, Mr Löfström also appealed to Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen's promise in 2009 that the status of Åland will also be taken into account when considering this additional location. I think that the status of Åland as such can be taken into account in the same way as that of the representative. Mäkelä here pointed out: here in Parliament's working methods and many other issues related to EU decision-making from the Finnish perspective. But I cannot say that the promise made by the then Prime Minister, Matti Vanhanen, would be binding. The blue future as a party, a blue parliamentary group or even this government to make such a decision that: Åland would have its own quota mep.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u90	Madam President! Firstly, I think that all these British parliamentary seats should have been omitted. Why didn't they all shut them down? I would also like to draw attention to the fact that another year, even though the Brexis were already known, there were 70 staff members of the parliamentary groups added to this House. The ALDE Group opposed, but the EPP and the Social Democrats pushed it through. I did not think there was any reason to exaggerate that regime like that. Last summer I went to Åland, where Mr Löfström partly hosted and very well. After all, Åland has its own special status, the provincial days, that is, the second Parliament. I'm probably in this minority — I wouldn't see it as a bad thing even if we gave this place to Åland. I mean, politics isn't just math. There's a lot more to it than that. It is also the case that Mr Löfström is here to take part in all the affairs of the kingdom, and so, in a way, it would also represent the whole of Finland, as all Members of this House actually represent the peoples of Europe and not any Member State. I think Mr Löfström and the Åland Islands have a point in this proposal and it is worth serious consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u91	Mr President! A few weeks ago, I was on a trip to Åland with the Legal Committee, and there was an opportunity to meet local politicians. The main debate related to the reform of the Autonomy Act, but we also discussed this matter of the title. According to the information I have received from them, I have understood that seafaring, agriculture, taxes and, for example, the snuff issue are something that they have been somewhat annoyed about, and they would like to have an impact on these issues. I also asked them if Finland has not done enough to raise the issues of Åland which are important to them, and they said yes, but that one of the problems is that the EU does not take account of the regions and that it only speaks with the countries and the voices of the countries. They would like to change this situation. Personally, I do not think that Åland should be given a labeled dress. One reason is that there are just under 30,000 people there, and if you look at the individual areas of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, for example, there are more people in Espoo alone than in Åland. Just as Mr Ala-Nissilä said, of course, this question is not just a matter of mathematics, but I believe that we Finns who are elected there in Brussels should be more forceful to take into account the issues of Åland as well, but we do not need a separate representative elected there.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u92	Värderade fru talman! Det är för Åland en viktig fråga, och jag tycker också att det är en fråga som vi har orsak att ta på största allvar i Finlands riksdag. Det handlar i slutändan om politisk grain, och för svenska folkpartiets del är det alldeles klart att vi anser att det nu när den ruusi öjligheten ges — det kommer ytterligare ett mandat till Finland — vore på sin plats att ge Åland det raus mandatet. Det är lite trist att höra att är finns så många som tycker annorlunda.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u93	Irade fru talman! Det är mycket sallan som Ålands lagting lämnat den ox nitrogens initialitiv till riksdage, och det visar vikten av den är frågan. Ledamot Essayah tog riktigt upp att kristdemocracyterna för tilfället inte har någo Parliamenttariker i Brussels. Det jag constaterade i mitt anförande var att genom brexitplatsen så blir det en extra plats, och därför finns det lää många tillgängliga platser till riksdagspartierna helt enkelt, också om Åland skulle få en öronmärkt plats, så det finns samma möjlighet för kristdemokraterna att tävla om plaserna på sammatt som för andra partier. Ledamot Essayah tog också upp valsystemet i Belgien och det är helt riktigt att det är annorlunda än i Finland, men Danmarks valsystem är inte annorlunda än Finlands. Danmark har samma valsystem som Finland och där utgjorde Grönland en egen valkrets i Danmark ända fram till att Grönland lämnade EU 1985. Det ox handlar dock inte egentligen om befolkningsunderlag, som vi har focuserat mycket på rai i debatten. Det aurihandlar om principer, och principen är den att lagtinget har, precis på samma sätt som riksdagen, gett bort lagstiftningsbehörighet till Brussels men utan att få någon direkt kommentation för den saken, utan direkt representation i Europaparlamentet. Precis som ledamot Kauma rain så är det inte möjligt för Åland eller autonoma regioner att få direkt representation i EU:s ministerråd. EU:s ministerråd talar enbart med huvudstäder, och just av den anledningen är den här frågan så oerhört viktig för Ålands del, för det är egentligen den enda öjligheten för ett autonomt område att få direkt representation i ett EU-organ. Därför gjorde man så i Danmark gentemot Grönland, därför har man gjort så i Belgien gentemot den tysktalande autonoma regionalen och därför brode man göra det också i vårt land och öronmärka en plats till Åland för att säkerstalla att ålänningarna får sin röst hörd dir. i Europaparlamentet.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u94	Madam President! Mr Löfström referred here several times to an extra or extra seat. I do not think this is a question of that, but, as I said, Finland has been under-represented, as it were. Indeed, last season we fought against the loss that Finland would not have to give up one place, and that was when we succeeded. If you look at Estonia, Malta, a few other small Member States, there is a guaranteed minimum of six seats. In that sense, in terms of population, we are now, as it were, getting what belongs to us, and in that sense it cannot be thought that there is now an extra place and that it could be given away by some other quota system. Of course, this example of Greenland is a little bad in the sense that one can ask whether it will then lead to the region wanting to leave the EU. In Greenland, this place was, and then it led to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u95	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u96	Mr President! I share the views of the representatives Mäkelä and Essayah that the possible additional place in the European Parliament should be built on the whole country's quota, because it is indeed a question of correcting the under-representation of the population of Finland. The representative Mäkelä pointed out earlier that if the Åland Regional Day presentation were carried out, the relative representation between Åland and Mainland Finland would be about 15 times, i.e. very large. Of course, many aspects need to be taken into account when weighing this matter, but one of the most important is the universal and equal right to vote, and here I would like to emphasise this similarity. Every vote given in the elections must be of the same value as possible, which has been sought and largely achieved, for example, in the planning of the constituency of the parliamentary elections. Mr President! I also wonder a little about the views of Mr Ala-Nissilä from the centre that the Åland Regional Day proposal should be adopted because it is not just a question of mathematics. Of course, there are many other aspects of this, but it must be borne in mind that it also includes that mathematics. In order to resolve this issue, we must remember that, with an additional seat in the whole of Finland, the latent threshold of about 6% of the votes in the European elections would be reduced even slightly and, therefore, even smaller parties would have a better chance of getting their representatives to the European Parliament, and I think that it would be quite likely to strengthen democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u97	Madam President! This question is very closely linked to the overall reform of the Åland Self-Government Act. I myself have been sitting on the Åland Committee for a very long time and I know that the Committee has worked hard. What may have been confusing about it was that there were opposing opinions about many things — as always, of course, it is when things are done — thought differently that what would be good for us Ålanders, whether this is done this way or that way. This overall reform of the Autonomy Act is still not quite complete. The last one was completed in 1991, which means that, of course, it was not possible for the law to be involved in these matters of the Union, but rather to be dealt with at a later stage. This issue was discussed a great deal at Committee meetings during the years 13, 14, 15 and our position was that the Autonomous Community cannot have its own direct representation in the EU. But even then, we thought it was important that: The Åland Islands must have direct contacts and have the opportunity to participate in discussions at Union level on issues concerning the Åland Islands. I think this connection is something you have to hold on to. In other words, although we are the common Finland and we are the motherland, we must not walk over the Åland Islands, but must have the right to raise their own issues even when matters are handled in the Union. It may be that it sometimes stings us a little bit, but it is still good to negotiate things and keep a negotiating relationship. Now it would be very interesting to know what the Committee paper says about this. I have not followed so closely, but I do know that you are now making this proposal. It's interesting to see which way this goes. I promise I'll get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u98	Mr President! Now that we have talked about this matter at all and about the activities and statements of Prime Minister Sipilä in this regard, a couple of comments have been made. First of all, the fact that, according to some opinions, the Prime Minister slipped a little too quickly into Finland's position that, with the break-up of Britain, these eloping meep places would disappear and agreed that they would be kept in places and in part, was quite questionable, because I understand that Finland intended to remove the British break-up, the Brexit, as such, from all levels of the EU. After all, this is not such a huge issue, but more about the principle of these mep-places, but at the same time one can ask whether, if we give up on this now, we will then give in to the fact that the EU is unable to reduce its budget, the GDP share will change from 1% up to 1.1%. They are already big things, and will this moral hazard come, what can be seen in this mep-place issue, then into these real things? It is a very interesting question about how this will go. And the fact that the Prime Minister is going to promise in public — perhaps not directly to promise, but strongly to suggest — that such a place could be coming to Åland, so with what mandate does he actually do it? Is this not a matter for the Parliament to decide and not for the government? I would have liked the Prime Minister to be here in Parliament now to answer these questions and to see whether the line or whether this issue should be spelt out.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u99	Irade fru talman! Det är lätt att fastna i en discussion som bara handlar om befolkningsunderlag, att vis städer har lästämycket befolkning och att Malta har väldigt få personer, få välijare som representerar varje mandat, och att Estland har samma sak och att Finland redan nu är underpresenterat. Men hela systemet heter degressiv proportionalitet, och titta till exempel på Frankrike, där varje ledamot representerar 800000 invånare, så man kan inte rakt av säga att det är fel eller inte är fel. Det är systemet som finns i hela Europa. När det ännu gäller Grönland och de självstyrda områdena i Danmark så har Danmark två självstyrda områden, Färöarna och Grönland. Färröarna blev aldrig medlem av Europeiska unionen, men Grönland blev det och lämnade sedan Europeiska unionen, men det är en separat discussion kring hur de självstyrda områdena i Danmark har hatterat saken. Huvudsaken är här själva printen att Grönland var representerat i Europaparlamentet så länge man var medlem. I Finland, när Finland blev medlem av Europeiska unionen, ordnades det TVå folkröstningar, en i hela landet och en en enbart på Åland för att också besluta om Åland skulle bli en del av Europeiska unionen. Det är också viktigt att poängtera att den arvussionen och lagtingets initialiv inte handlar om någon critik mot Finlands nuvarande Europaparlamentariker eller tidigare Europaparlamentariker, mot hur de har skött Ålands frågor och andra frågor. Det är absolut ingen critik, utan de kors ledamöterna vi har haft har företrätt Finland och Åland på ett mycket gott sätt. Det handlar inte Heller om någon kritik mot statsförvaltningen, att staten och ministererna skulle ha skött de raus frågorna dåligt, utan det handlar om att ha representation för den lagstiftningsbehörighet som Åland gav bov ner man blev medlem av Europeiska unionen. De rauh frågorna som man gav bort lagstiftningsbehörigheten från var inte ricksdagens ärenden, de var lagtingets ärenden, och de raus sakerna bereddes aldrig på ministerier utan de bereddes i landsskapets egen förvaltning, och det är den lagstiftningsbehörigheten som den raus platsen skulle läs för och representera, och det är vikt är viktigt att poängtera den saken.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u100	Madam President! Mr Löfström has been an excellent representative of the Åland Islands in the large committee, and I think it is important to take into account the way in which our national Parliament takes note of the fact that there is a quota place for the representative of Åland in the large committee, because it is important that in all the EU matters that are being dealt with in this house, Åland has its own place and, of course, it comes from the Constitution and legislation of the Autonomous Community. Of course, in every single so-called U-letter or, above all, in EU affairs, we will see what the impact is on Åland. We're going through it automatically. In that sense it could be said that, at least on the part of the Council, where this representation takes place at national level through countries, as has been said here, it is extremely well taken into account at each reading how legislation affects Åland, whether it has specific characteristics that should be taken into account. Indeed, as I said here, Åland has received an excellent and hard-working representative who will be present at committee meetings and will certainly look at these issues from that point of view as well. I would still like to address this number of seats in Malta, Estonia and these smaller Member States. In the past, when I asked about this matter and asked why it was just six places, why there was no other number, and that where it came from, that it was considered important that there were more places, the argument that I was told was that because it was possible to ensure that more parties were represented in that country. I am thinking of the 14 seats in Finland and if this threshold drops slightly: it is precisely the idea that it is important that as many different political parties as possible should be represented in the European Parliament as well. And when we always talk about this legitimacy — that what is the legitimacy of the whole EU system works on — if we have a situation where there are only a few or a few parties represented, then you can say that a large number of citizens feel that there is no representative in that Parliament. That is why it is so important that we also take care of it numerically. Of course, I have to say that I myself wondered a little bit about these exits from the then Prime Minister, Mr Vanhanen and the current Prime Minister. Unfortunately, it occurred to me that if Åland were to have this place, it would probably be in the same group as the RKP is currently in, i.e. in the ALDE group. I hope that there are no ideas of this kind behind it that this place is, as it were, automatically also a place for the ALDE Group in these European parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u101	Irade fru talman! Bara för att kommentera också stora utskottet: det är precis som ledamot Essayah säger, och kristdemokraterna har också en alldeles utmärkt representant i stora utskottet, så vi har ett gott samarbete, det kan tillaggas ox. Men den raus platsen, kvotplatsen om man säger så, som Åland har i stora utskottet, kom just på grund av att man inte fick en Parliamentsplats i tiden. Då fick man en åländsk plats i stora utskottet. Man har kärvaranderätt och yttranderätt men inte rösträtt i utskottet. Men precis som både jag och ledamot Essayah vet så är tidtabellen i stora utskottet alltid valdigt kort. När vi får frågorna till stora utskottet så har vi ibland bara TVå eller tre veckor tid att ge vår åsikt. Europaparlamentet kan jobba med en helt give framförhållning i de raus frågorna. Avslutningsvis vill jag hålla med det ledamot Essayah rain om legitimitet, för det är just precis det som den ox frågan handlar om, legitimiteten från Ålands siida när man har gett bort lagstiftningsbehörighet och känner att den inte är representerad direkt nu i Europaparlamentet. Det är precis just ordet legitimitet som den ox frågan handlar om, och därför skulle vi ha en möjlighet att nu ordna den legitimiteten genom att genom det tai iitiativet se till att Åland blir en egen valkrets i nasta Europaparlamentsval.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u102	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u103	Madam President! The title of Chapter 3 of the Annual Report of the National Audit Office is ‘transparency and compliance with the rules on the basis of sound administration and State finances’, andthe same chapter contains a section onthe State funding and text of the universities:‘The Chapter 4 on the priorities for the development of audit activities states that the quality of the methods has been assessed by the Scientific Council of the Agency and that the audit activities have been considered to be of high quality, relevant and reliable. Chapter 5 states that ‘the Audit Office shall ensure that the audit work is carried outin an independent manner,that State funds are used appropriately and budgetly ‘and’in the Why do I want to raise these points from the annual report? In other words, transparency, good administration, the need for Parliament to have access to the right and sufficient — and I stress the word ‘sufficient ’ — information on issues,and the fact that the Audit Office is independent of the State administration in the context of its operations. I am raising these points because I feel that quality standards have not always been fully met, and I hope that things will be more transparent in the future within the legal framework. Let me give you an example of how things should not go: The Parliamentary Audit Committee reviewed, among other things, the operations of Minister of Transport Anne Berner and Finavia's management throughout autumn 2016 and early spring 2017. Before the report of the Parliamentary Audit Committee, the National Audit Office carried out both a performance check and a legality check on Finavia. The inspections revealed irregularities both in the company's decision-making and in its supervision. The report noted that the Ministry of Transport and Communications intervened in a questionable way in the operation of the state company. According to the Parliamentary Audit Committee, the activities of the Ministry of Transport were not in line with the established corporate governance practice in autumn 2015. There had been clear errors and risk-taking in derivative transactions, which is not part of the principles of the state enterprise. The Minister of Transport, Anne Berner, was then responsible for the management of the owner. In the autumn of 2016, I requested a separate request for information from the Central Government Audit Office for the full background memo related to the legality check, because some of the information in the memo had been encrypted. Despite my requests, I didn't get the encrypted parts of the memo. VTV justified the failure to provide information on the basis of the Publicity Act. In the memo, VTV hid pages about decisions by Finavia's Board of Directors, discussions by Board members, comments by agents used by the company, the operations of the state owner and the names of Finavia's partners and partners. Information on the activities of individual employees or representatives of the company and the criticism of them by the Audit Office was also withheld from the memo. Later, the memo was made available in full to the Audit Committee, but in secret. The memorandum is the most accurate description of how Finavia was directed by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Anne Berner, in a situation in which the company's derivatives transactions were wound up in 2009-2011, leading to losses of EUR 34 million and subsequent decisions. The secrecy must have been about protecting people from the public who had been involved in Fin's avia-spa because of their duties. I appealed to the Administrative Court for a decision on encryption, which decided in March this year that the Government Audit Office (VTV)'s memo is completely public, up to the decision-making process of the Finavia Board and the discussions of the Board members, as I had requested. The Administrative Court considered that there was no legal basis for the confidentiality of the information in question and that it was a legal review by VTV under Finavia's law, in which the company's operations have also been audited. VTV did not appeal against the decision. I find it unusual to keep things secret because when I asked for information, I was both a representative of Parliament and a member of Finavia's Audit Committee on derivative transactions. As such, I should have been given a particularly extensive right to information. According to the Constitution, Parliament has the right to receive from the Government the information necessary to deal with matters and the MP has the right to receive from the Authority the information necessary for the performance of his duties. It is good if the VTV has now noticed this and will follow this principle of transparency a little better in the future. I see the whole thing as a problem for the citizen, too, because it is a question of transparency in decision-making and of common money, which lost more than 30 million. Mr President! I would like to remind you that those who exercise power must also comply with the decisions of the court. You can't point them out. The law of the authorities must be enforced and judicial decisions must be respected. The annual report of the National Audit Office itself is well constructed and done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u104	Mr President! In this comprehensive report, I would like to draw attention to one detail, namely the conditional liability, which is partly stated on page 16: ‘The possible liability is often hidden in detail. For example, when acceding to an international organisation, the States must enter into agreements on the organisation. They commit the Member States to assume responsibility for the existing obligations of organisations, such as pensions. According to the Audit Office’s State Responsibilities in International Entities audit, no account has been taken of the economic impact of joining organisations and no assessment of the benefits of accession in relation to the total cost. Moreover, the way in which responsibilities are shared between Member States in the event of a possible separation from organisations has not been assessed transparently.’ So this is what the official report says, and this is an unusually clear text. How, then, can we get this to be understood by politicians? That is a much better question. However, there is a figure below describing the development of these responsibilities in the bucket between 2005 and 2017. State guarantees have risen from 9 billion to 51 billion, which goes very close to the government’s annual budget. So we are talking about a billion-dollar issue, and it has been so lax to deal with. How can this be?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u105	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u106	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I was delighted to receive a letter from the Chamber of Commerce of South Savo in which they expressed a positive opinion on this bill. They write in this way: ‘Good RepresentativeSatuTavitsainen,Millek Chamber of Commerce supports a legislative initiative in which the costs of recovery are borne at the “ So we now have in the referral debate a bill that I have taken to amend the law on the recovery of debts. Thank you to all the Members of Parliament who signed this. There's a total of 48 of us. Finnish Entrepreneurs also support this bill. Our change in the bill would mean setting a ceiling on the collection costs of invoices to companies. At present, regulation restricts recovery costs only to consumers. We propose in the bill that the maximum fees for companies' collection costs be set at the same level as those for consumers. That is the case in Sweden. However, in writing this bill, the EU Late Payment Directive was also to be taken into account, according to which the creditor has the right to receive EUR 40 from the trader in the form of a standard fee for recovery costs. In other words, under this directive, the creditor is entitled to at least EUR 40 for recovery costs from companies, so this provision of the directive had to be baked into this bill. I'll tell you those amounts a little later. As far as companies are concerned, the law currently in force provides for recovery costs only to be interpreted in such a way that the debtor has to reimburse the reasonable costs of recovery, but these have often been hundreds of euros. For example, in a case dealt with by the Regional State Administrative Agency, the collection agency had provided the entrepreneur with a claim of EUR 1200 in capital to collect a single payment claim requiring an additional EUR 167 in recovery costs. In the case of consumer claims, the debtor should have been legally liable for recovery costs of EUR 50 in respect of a claim of that amount of capital. The recovery office had not provided an explanation of the amount of work carried out to deal with the case in question in addition to the drafting and dispatch of the recovery letter, and the Regional State Administrative Agency considered that the recovery costs could be considered excessive where only one payment claim letter had been sent, which resulted in an invoice of EUR 167 to the entrepreneur. Thus, the collection costs required by large, often international-owned recovery companies do not correspond to the actual costs of recovery activities, but are generally significantly higher. With the development of financial management software, recovery activities have changed considerably and become automated as digital systems become more common, and in reality, the amount of time-consuming human work is less and less expensive. High and fast-growing collection costs hit small businesses very hard because they have little or no negotiating room. Entrepreneurs report that a sudden difficulty in paying is caused, for example, by the fact that a small company’s own, larger claim has not been paid in time or that the payment period has to be agreed so long that the risk of falling due on its own invoice arises. The situation of small entrepreneurs is also complicated by the fact that it is almost impossible for them to challenge even large, excessive collection costs, because it would be difficult for the company to become involved in a default list immediately and often in the longer term. In practice, the entrepreneur has no choice but in some way to bear the costs of recovery, even if they are a major financial burden for an undertaking in a situation of temporary insolvency. Surely this bill will cause murmuring in recovery companies because it will reduce their incomes. However, this should not be ignored; Parliament must be on a smaller side, emphasising moderation. Many large, international recovery companies otherwise do not comply with good practice and law, but they sell debts forward, destroy original invoices and engage in illegal recovery, and avi has given them a number of comments. Mr President! This is where I tell you these examples of how this bill would work. So I said just now that this EU Late Payments Directive is doing that at least EUR 40 is the collection cost when it is being imposed on a company. For example: a maximum of EUR 14 recovery costs may be allocated to the consumer if the amount of the claim does not exceed EUR 100; that amount would be EUR 40 to the undertaking as a result of this Directive. An amount of EUR 24 may be allocated to the consumer if the capital of the claim exceeds EUR 100 but does not exceed EUR 1000; that amount would be EUR 40 for undertakings as a result of this Directive. A maximum of EUR 50 recovery costs may be allocated to the consumer if the capital of the claim exceeds EUR 1000 and this would be the same for consumers and businesses in the future. All of this is read in this bill and this would greatly improve the current situation and the position of entrepreneurs. This bill has already given rise to much hope in Finnish companies, especially in self-employed and small entrepreneurs. Today is Thursday, and Thursday is always full of hope. I hope that the committee will take a positive view of the amendment of this law in the deliberations of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u107	Mr President! Recovery costs for companies are far from always proportionate to the size of debt capital. In the case of small businesses in particular, it is virtually impossible to challenge the excessive collection costs required by recovery companies, because the resources and energy of companies are being used to run their operations and the threshold for entering the appeal process is high. This bill, which Mrs Taavitsainen has tabled, must be supported, and I have also signed it. I am therefore in favour of Mrs Satu Taavitsainen's bill. It puts the small entrepreneur and the consumer on an equal footing with regard to regulation limiting recovery costs. In 2017, there were 560,000 persons in the enforcement and the 2018 forecast is 570,000 persons. Disbursement marking is on the increase, unfortunately. People and entrepreneurs capable of working should be able to find work, so that it would be possible to cope with debts by drawing up a payment plan. This way, a lot of people would be able to get back to life. The Society magazine published an article stating that low-wage sectors are in practice subject to a requirement of financial infallibility, i.e. that credit data could be checked and even rejected for employment. Unfortunately, the plight of the over-indebted due to the recession of the 1990s is still a fact today. And now we are living in 2018, so this situation is quite unreasonable for over-indebted people. The Finns Party and also representative Laura Huhtasaari raised the issue during their presidential election tour. I have also asked a great many written questions in this regard, and also a bill which is currently in the committee's pile of paper. Let's hope it's handled. Mr President! Is society moving in the direction that an over-indebted, defaulted, bankrupt or bankrupt is a so-called class B citizen? So there'd be about half a million of them. I'm never going to this crucifixion club to judge people. It is in the interests of society and individuals to find real ways for citizens to get on their feet, to find goals and to be able to build this country. Together. The thinking of poor squats is not a sign of civilised society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u108	Madam President! Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Taavija for a very good and timely initiative. I have signed it myself and I warmly support it. It is absolutely essential that we talk about this from the point of view of the ordinary citizen, the consumer, and that we also highlight the mishaps and fates that Mrs Elomaa has described well here. But I personally would like to highlight the other side or the other aspect of self-employed people and the treatment and unreasonableness that many small entrepreneurs face in the costs of collecting corporate claims. Among other things, Finnish Entrepreneurs have already pointed out on several occasions, as early as 2016, that the recovery costs of corporate receivables need to be capped. It would be particularly helpful for self-employed people. It is clear that consumer law is a figure in itself, but when we look at the self-employed, their daily work and their position, I would see for myself that the self-employed should also be protected by legislation, and why not small entrepreneurs on the whole. Many self-employed persons, small entrepreneurs may not or may not be able to challenge the notice fees, the collection fees that will come. I am not here to defend negligence or the fact that an entrepreneur does not pay his bills, but I appeal to many entrepreneurs to have a good reason, a disease, a burnout or some other factor, which may even have led to an accidental failure to pay the bill. In the worst case scenario, these become a totally fatal expense if one thinks that these are cumulative. Among other things, Finnish Entrepreneurs suggest that the regulation of corporate receivables could be implemented in accordance with the same principles as currently applied to consumer claims. I believe that this is a good objective for the legislator and for the government, because I believe that in the end it will also save companies costs. The Ministry of Justice has — and must thank Minister Häkkä for that — made a number of good new developments, such as, for example, a positive credit register, one of them, i.e. a comprehensive approach to how we can promote cooperation with consumers, entrepreneurs, the indebted, the over-indebted and then the banking sector and the small banking sector. But if we are to make real progress here, we should also think about digital and technological solutions. Mr President! I therefore hope that the government will be able to launch without delay a preparatory project of which I have also mentioned to Minister Häkkänen that we would have, for example, this kind of payment platform 2.0, which would be domestic, home-owned and, in the same way, reliable and well-controlled, that it could act as such a platform from the point of view of the self-employed. That is not what we currently have, but it would be possible to do so in the future in the context of a positive credit register. Finally, Mr President, one aspect from the point of view of small business is that there is also the fact that large companies often want and require long payment periods, and then the small business is the last in the chain. This, too, may cause the unfortunate situation that the small entrepreneur simply does not have the money to pay a small telephone bill. Before the financial crisis, Finland had short payment periods. Now we've slipped into the South European style.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u109	Mr President! It is said that what is not right and fair cannot be a law either, nor, in my opinion, can it be a cost of inheritance. It is good that the recovery of consumer debts has been carefully regulated. It could be regulated more, because you still hear stories that even public authorities collect their own claims from consumers with very excessive charges, using private collection agencies. But here many speakers have already pointed out whether micro-entrepreneurs are in such a different position from consumers at the end of the day. I do not think they may be, even worse, because of the longer payment periods for these large companies. Their livelihood depends on getting that money out of those big companies. I therefore welcome the fact that legislation seeks to dismantle such excesses and obstacles, because the fact is that small businesses, micro-enterprises are currently employing a huge number of people and a very large proportion of future employment is being put on these small enterprises. Therefore, obstacles to enterprise should be removed in every way possible by us legislators. So, according to the bills, this is 500. It is very nice to use my speech in this House to support this initiative, which I myself have signed and which is to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u110	Madam President! First of all, this bill, which we are now dealing with, is very much to be welcomed. Very good work by Mr Taavitsainen, and it is nice that other opposition parties are also in favour of this bill. The reason I think this initiative is particularly good — now I give a few figures, quite a lot actually: there are 280,000 companies in Finland. 93% of them are enterprises with fewer than 10 people, i.e. small businesses. Of these, 65% are micro-enterprises, i.e. enterprises that employ only the self-employed, i.e. one person employs himself. We know that the Finnish system is a bit similar to the fact that we are also forced to become an entrepreneur. When a job goes under, then you want a person to set up a partnership, and then you see yourself as an entrepreneur and become all the responsibilities of the entrepreneur, including yourself, of course, pension contributions and the like, which are quite reasonable here. There are 57,000 legal persons, i.e. companies, associations, partnerships, foundations, municipalities, etc., who are solely involved in enforcement in this country. So there's 57,000 of these. It is not known how many small businesses are in the inheritance, but they are in the inheritance, because we know that way to the vout: it passes through private collection companies. And when this cycle is reached, the reason for this is that the costs of the collection companies are so high that the capital is lower than the costs. If you start running, that is to say, you go to the interest rate, then very soon you get to the point where you are already going to the vout. But before that, there will be a turn in the district court and the costs of the district court will be added there on top of that small entrepreneur. When the Finnish system is such that once the bankrupt does not get out of that distress easily and does not get to do new business for himself and even bigger business, where more could then be employed, it is a very bad thing. By the way, by August this year there were 1769 bankruptcy applications in this country, or about 1,800. The growth in these is 22 per cent from the previous year. These enterprises had 8,500 employees, an increase of 8.5 per cent from the previous year. On average, these companies had five employees. Now that we know that when a company is faced with financial difficulties, when bankruptcy knocks on the door, we can be quite certain that it is also there as a customer of a collection agency and a customer of a voud, and in that situation this society does not offer its hand at the moment, but rather gives a boost to the entrepreneur to get it shut down and the entrepreneur himself to become unemployed and possibly four more. That is why this bill, which Mrs Taavitsainen has made, is very much to be welcomed. I really hope that this will be taken seriously in this Chamber and that this will help the country to move forward, to help employment, to help maintain permanent jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u111	Madam President! The legality of recovery operations is monitored by the Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland. It has stated that, if the recovery company is unable to prove that the measures are different from those of the consumer, there is no justification for requiring entrepreneurs to bear higher costs than consumers. However, Avilla does not have the power to reduce the collection costs charged by the collection agency or to order recovery offices to pay compensation to the entrepreneur. Now it is very often the case that the majority of entrepreneurs, who are small entrepreneurs, are self-employed, will then pay even these large collection costs without delay, because they are afraid of default marking. In 2016, Etelä-Suomen avi issued 26 supervisory decisions on such matters, seven of which gave a warning to the recovery companies, and in 15 cases it considered the collection costs to be excessive, but did not give a warning. In other words, although we have a supervisory authority, in practice it is quite impossible to control recovery companies and these excessive costs, and it is therefore important that we set these collection costs for companies by law at the same level as those for consumers. Let me repeat here, Mr President, is there two minutes or three minutes? [Second Vice-PresidentTuulaHaatainen :3minutes from his seat. — — — — Please, you may proceed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u114	Mr President! Of course, when we talk about legislation in Parliament, we also have to look at existing legislation, and we also have a section on the legal profession, which talks about moderation, and, as I said earlier, it is also the case that if you are a sole entrepreneur or a trader, then there should be moderation. Mr Taavitsainen has well opened up the practical life and the practical feedback that we have received quite a lot of people have received, and even such notice fees for a business name entrepreneur or self-employed person are quite unreasonable when it comes to telephone bills, for example, about which I have heard that the late payment is EUR 40. It's pretty tough when it comes to one phone bill — which may have been paid for a business trip, or not always for a business trip, but for some reason. Of course I do not know these details, but I would just like to say that EUR 40 for a telephone bill of EUR 40, for example, seems to me to be a very high notice fee. Too hard. But when we talk about legislative initiatives at all, it is great that we have such a tool, that we can discuss this issue in the form of a legislative initiative — and thank you again to Mr Taavitsainen — but then, of course, we also need an active and ambitious minister and government that is taking up these issues and, as has been said, I would like to see Justice Minister Häkkänen, for example, in this parliamentary term, taking a catch on this issue and preparing legislation in the Ministry to answer the questions we are asking today, here and now, and the facts we are telling about both the consumer perspective and the small entrepreneur perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u115	Madam President! Representative I would like to thank Mrs Tavitsainen very much for her excellent legislative initiative and also the 47 signatories for their efforts. Indeed, this problem of debt recovery in the bill is a huge problem. Those entrepreneurs who have come into this situation are truly free game for all kinds of excessive billing. In my opinion, in society, legislators, in this case in Parliament, must always take the weaker side when we make legislation. In other words, I would very much like to see, even if there are no hundred signatories to this bill, that even so, the Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen, and the Ministry of Justice, take this matter seriously, because it is almost impossible for those entrepreneurs who have been caught up in this cycle to survive there, to get the company up and standing up and securing jobs. That is why I hope, Mr President, that this bill will succeed on the table of the ministry and the Minister for Justice. The question would be dealt with by the misfit. This is the same category as a quickie. There is the same disproportionateity in this matter as in those short-term bills where the interest rate of a small quick-up can go out of control, and that too is quite unreasonable. If, for some reason, the matter of the quick-jumping issue should move forward, I very much hope that this issue will be raised in the same context, because the entrepreneurs who have come into these situations are in absolutely insurmountable difficulties. The big companies, which have their own lawyers and other arrangements for these things, can handle things like this, but the small entrepreneur is completely unsafe. I hope that this initiative will be very successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u116	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u117	Mr President! The number of broken areas is constantly increasing in our waters, and the reduction in the number of broken stocks has not progressed as hoped. Let's talk about a break, but that's just another important thing. The reason for this increase is that fishermen do not find it worthwhile to fish, and fishing has already decreased in our waters. The distribution of fish is distorted by the intensification of oversized fish stocks in the event of eutrophication of the waters. The amount of animal plankton is reduced and nutrients are transferred back to the water column as the shards seek food at the bottom of the water. Increased hunting would remove phosphorus from water bodies and increase the use of fish that have been poorly exploited. The government should show an incentive to fish for breeches. Such an incentive would be the abolition of VAT on the sale of broken fish to the extent that the fisherman sells the broken fish he himself fishes. Article 59 of the VAT Act already provides exemptions for certain uses of natural resources, which the State wishes to encourage and support. The sale of wild berries and mushrooms themselves is exempt from VAT if the picker himself sells these products as such from a place of sale other than a special place of sale. This exemption from VAT would be a good way to increase the fishing and use of broken fish. This would promote both biodiversity and the profitability of the profession of fishermen. In this respect, it would be important to increase the use of broken houses and the appreciation of broken houses in general. As legislators in Finland in general, we should do everything we can to ensure that more domestic fish are used in Finland. The industry of professional fishermen is under threat at the moment, and the damage caused by cormorants and seals, in particular, is due to the very large increase in these stocks. The majority of fish eaten in Finland come from abroad. This has to change. Perhaps a quarter of the fish eaten in Finland is domestic fish, and this is where the fish that people have fished for themselves have also been taken. Our waters are very rich. There's a ton of fish in them. Why can't we use it? The Japanese have thought that if these were their waters, they would be used in a different way. Mr President! I hope that the point made in my initiative will be taken seriously into account. We must do all we can to promote the Finnish fishing industry and the fact that there is much more good, healthy, safely prepared Finnish fish food at the Finnish table. This is my presentation now only for the break. A lot of people think it's a trash fish, but first of all, the word "smack fish" has to be forgotten. It is a matter of secondary fish and, in fact, quite good fish, because even the right, suitable way to put it is a really good fish as a can fish, for example. True, this presentation could also expand in the case of other secondary fish. It would not be a bad thing if the pike were also in this pattern. I do not think that this will distort competition in any way, but every secondary fish we could get out of that water would help our fishing business. Now that we go into the fishing law and the accumulation of fishing fees, the problem is that, as we are constantly reducing the fees for fisheries management, we also have fewer resources for water law owners to manage their waters. We need to find new ways to encourage the management of waters. This is one of the most important things that we can do to deal with the waters. In other words, I hope that this proposal will be taken seriously and that this will bring us a step forward on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u118	Madam President! In the bill, Mrs Eeva-Maria Maijala has quite rightly addressed this problem of junk fish, although it must also be said, in the name of the truth, that there is no trash fish in her own right. For example, I myself have eaten broken canned, and when marinated well in oil, it is an excellent treat, so that we have to look at the other side of the medal, the fact that the porpoise is a valuable fish properly prepared. But if we want to take care of these Finnish waters, then it is important to catch less valuable fish. For example, this is the project that is being carried out in Puruvesi, Kite. Its Puruvesi project has improved the eutrophication of the lake bay. The bite water itself is very clear water, just as the first lakes of Finland are clean. A few bays are a little eutrophic. Last spring, five cuckoos were drawn from those bays and 32 tons of less valuable fish were caught — that is, 32 thousand kilos — a huge catch of Peter’s fish, with five strokes. But in any case, this example merely shows how big this management of lakes and the management of water by sensible fishing is. I would like to make a success of the initiative taken by Mrs Majala as such, but I have some doubts that it may be a little challenging to change the tax laws on one of these minor issues. But I think this would open the way for the Finnish fish market to be promoted much more effectively in this country. If you visit a big lake — when last summer I was driving on Pielis one day, and so in Ilomants on a couple of big lakes, then all those who were on that trip found two fishing crews on a boat in these big lakes — it is really little compared to the possibility of Finnish waters. But I would hope that this good initiative by Mrs Maijala will get it moving that Finnish water bodies will actually start to use both for recreation and, through this, for the development of livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-27-ps-91.u119	Mr President! I was the chairman of the Finnish Federation of Fisheries. Another major fisheries organisation in Finland is the Finnish Free Time Fishermen, and I believe that this is a very important issue for both organisations, and I do not believe that anyone else is opposed to us being able to manage the water. This could be one way, a method of getting these water management issues moving forward. There are too few commercial fishermen in Finland, and their numbers are falling all the time. And who can sell fish for EUR 10,000 a year is also very small. In other words, I do not believe that it will have a major negative impact, at least, on the abolition of this VAT case. I was allowed to visit Pyhäjärvi in Säkylä, where this secondary fish was exploited very well and magnificently. I saw how we could work on it. This mass was then made fishballs at the Apetit factory, very good. It's a great system. This is a pattern that we should really be able to make a lot of progress at national level. For many children since our childhood, the treat has been fish sticks. But what is made of Finnish fish sticks? Certainly not our domestic fish. Our lakes are full of fish. It could produce mass in a great way, but when we don't have any kind of logistics system, we don't have a collection system, anything that we can do with the fish. On the milk side, for example, we collect milk systematically from every part of the country, and the cold chain issue has been taken care of. Why should we not be able to arrange this in the same way on the fish side? Well, breaking and these other secondary fish aren't ready to pay very much, but if we could give them a little incentive to move on. The Säkylä Pyhäjärvi project, like many other projects, has suffered a great deal from the fact that state aid is only valid for the time being, and now we should find methods and systems for it that do not run on any project money or state support, but that we could actually encourage these things to move forward. In other words, with these provisions we will wait for us to make this subject part of Finnish tax legislation one day.
