ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the autumn of good cooperation and successful action! Here we go again.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u2	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Administrative Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion. We also have a minister present. — Here you are, Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u3	Madam President! This proposal introduces three new laws: the law on public recruitment services and skills development services, the law on the financing of regional development and growth services, and the law on private employment services. These laws would replace public employment and business services, cross-sectoral employment cooperation, the financing of regional development and Structural Fund projects and the laws on state aid for business development. In addition, the general conditions for aid to economic activities are proposed to be amended. This proposal relates to the regional reform and the related growth service reform, where these public employment and business services and business services, organised by the existing Employment and Economic Development Offices and Ely Centres, are transferred to regional organisation as so-called growth services. The laws on public recruitment services, skills development services and the financing of regional development and growth services are concerned with the so-called content laws of these growth services. This proposal is therefore closely linked to the previous Government proposal on regional development and growth services before Parliament. The Law on Public Recruitment Services and Skills Development Services would provide services that would be required by the provinces to promote the functioning of the labour market. One of the challenges facing today's labour market is the availability of skilled labour at the same time as a large number of people are unemployed. These regional growth services contribute to this challenge. Services to be provided by the Province on its own territory would be recruitment services corresponding to existing public employment services. Each region should organise vocational selection and career guidance and growth service training as competence development services. Growth service training would correspond to the labour market training currently organised by the Employment and Economic Development Offices. The above-mentioned services would constitute the so-called minimum services which the province would be obliged to organise. The law would allow regions to organise other services to support recruitment and job search, to identify and develop the skills of personal customers, to increase their labour market capacity and to support employment. These services would not be further defined in the proposed law. This will enable regions to develop new types of services, taking into account the needs of their local businesses, employers and job seekers. Work trials would also be available to the regions to promote the employment of jobseekers. The Act on Public Recruitment Services and Skills Development Services would provide for a service process for the jobseeker. The provision of services would be based on the need for services, and to this end the need for services for unemployed job seekers should be assessed on a regular basis. The proposed law also includes the province's obligation to coordinate the services of unemployed people in need of cross-sectoral co-service to promote employment. Since the province would be responsible for organising both growth services and social and health care services, the regions would be well placed to do so. Although the general trend is to increase digital services, which are also aimed at growth services, the law would also impose on the provinces the obligation to provide access to personal services by providing sufficient service points for this purpose. One of the objectives of the growth service reform is to increase the effectiveness of services. One way to do this is to make use of the multi-producer model. In order to make this possible, the proposal proposes that the provinces should be able to entrust the provision of services and the tasks of the customer service process to service providers. However, in order to ensure legal protection for jobseekers, the province should always carry out tasks related to registering as a job seeker, ending job search, training for growth services and stopping services as an official task. The Act on the Financing of Regional Development and Growth Services provides for the provision of financial services within the meaning of the Act on Regional Development and Growth Services in mainland Finland. The proposal would bring together the same law and harmonise the provisions on financial services for regional development and growth services financed by national funds and the Structural Funds in such a way as to preserve their core content. At the same time, the provisions governing the management of the Structural Funds would be brought together more fully in the same law. The law would provide for aid to businesses, regional development aid, wage subsidies, organisational support for working conditions and start-up money. In addition to the regions, the law would cover projects financed by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy from national funds and technical assistance projects financed by the Structural Funds and projects financed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health from the Structural Funds. The Act would include provisions on sustainable growth and work 2014-2020 — the management and implementation of the Finnish Structural Fund programme, which would apply to all authorities implementing the programme, and the provisions specified in the Act would also apply to the Finnish guarantee programme to improve access to finance for growth companies. Mr President! This was the first presentation of this autumn session, and I hope for a meaningful and understanding debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u4	Let us take this stage in the debate, because I believe that there are many questions here for the minister who can be here now. Let's start with those who want to make a debut stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u5	Mr President! I have three questions for the Minister of Labour on the subject: 1) How are the quality of employment services to be improved in the regions, and how have the impact of possible privatisation of employment services been assessed? 2) How will the financing of employment services be secured when regional funding is provided by general ceilings? 3) How can employment services be made more accessible to those who are difficult to employ and more equal?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u6	Mr President! I do not envy the Minister in this work, because there are so many fragments here, but I have to say that it is quite hard to think about autumn in committee too. We have this piece of legislation in the Administrative Committee, this content law comes to the Committee on Labour, and then we are still going to have financial laws that determine how the contributions to labour market support go, and all of these have very specific constitutional issues to consider. My most important question is: how do the new provinces ensure that the unemployed actually receive services because of the lack of funding in social welfare and health care?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u7	Mr President! The big question is whether the provinces will be able to spend enough money to implement employment services under the enormous pressure of social services when the government creates a system of social services that increases the costs of the regions, but the funding will be reduced. Will the employment services continue to have money, and will Parliament be able to direct it any longer? Mr President! Another major problem is the possibility of privatising the service process of the unemployed, i.e. the government creates the possibility of transferring the service chain to private companies. From the point of view of the unemployed, this is a big thing when the estimated service guidance and the preparation of an employment plan for the unemployed are transferred to private companies, which can then direct the unemployed into an unpaid work experiment with other companies or even their own company. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister whether this bill should increase the amount of unpaid work in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u8	President! On the contrary, I do not have a question. On the contrary, I would like to thank the government for allowing these private recruitment companies to be used. They have worked in Finland for a long time. Many of them are specialized. They have succeeded in the fact that many workers are willing to pay for their services, and this has been happening for years, years. In fact, they have come to terms with finding the right ways of working for workers, for companies. The fact that they receive customers over and over again indicates that they have found something like this that customers are willing to pay for this even though there is a public employment service alongside them. I think this is a good opening for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u9	Madam President! Thank you very much to the Minister for the good opening of the autumn in that we are now at the very heart of the matter. There are currently tens of thousands, over 50,000, of open jobs in Finland. There is a real need for active action in the field of employment, and it is very important for this multi-producer model to be able to do their best to bring jobs and workers together. One of the things you said was that the province acts as an information centre of a certain kind. However, it is a place where people start, decide, maintain, in a certain way, where the unemployed are at all times. How does this work? How do we get open interfaces to make this work well when there are many producers? And the second, short question relates to the role of municipalities in growth services: what is the relationship between regions and municipalities, and what really is the role of municipalities, which, in my opinion, should be strong because the work is done at local level?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u10	Mr President! In fact, I would have asked the Minister for Employment how the Ministry responds to this challenge, when it is beginning to be quite a job for a Member of Parliament to find out where the citizen and the unemployed should go in the face of a threat of unemployment or the fact that unemployment has already begun. There are quite a lot of service packages, service paths, support for employment. How can people be made clear about how they should act? At least I get a lot of feedback from myself that it's starting to be such a jungle and another job that you know how to apply for a job, and it's kind of like a place for a course almost. How does the Ministry respond to this guidance? And has there been any new information during the summer, for example, about this activity model 1 tracking and possible changes? It's going to be a few questions with me, at least for me.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u11	Mr President! If private service providers continue to carry out the service process for the long-term unemployed, who will carry out the service needs assessment and the service plan and will the service integration be carried out? Those who have been unemployed for a long time really need a wide range of services, such as social services, health services, debt counselling, etc. How do we ensure that a private service provider has sufficient expertise and do we have such service providers who control all this that is now controlled by the TE Offices? And then, in the government proposal, there is a lot of talk about the alliance model, but no one has yet been able to tell me what this really means in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u12	Mr President! Mr Filatov raised the core problem of this legislative package. I will take an example from my own province of the adequacy of this funding: Today, the aim of the social plan is to reduce the cost of health expenditure by EUR 80 million in our province of South Savo. At the same time, two thirds of the population, with the exception of one municipality, are over 65, i.e. two thirds of the entire population are over 65. It is quite clear that in the future we will need much more funding for the social and health sector. In this situation, how will funding be provided to the regions for employment services and the employment of the unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u13	President! I remember from the '80s that it was said that in Finland the library and employment services were best managed in the world. Have I understood the Minister's speech correctly that, in future, when the provinces bear the main responsibility, it is precisely the provinces that have the opportunity to make tailor-made, expanded and targeted solutions? That's what I understand. But my question relates to the fact that young people in making life decisions need a face - to - face encounter, physical encounter, face - to - face encounter. How will this be ensured that young people have a ‘sweigher nurse’,notwithallthemight-to-mexiconet transmission?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u14	Mr President! During the summer there has been a necessary and good debate on Finland's too high long-term unemployment. Looking at these statistics, I think it is quite clear that not enough has been done to eradicate long-term unemployment in this country. The actions taken by the government have not actually made the situation any easier. We know that the active model has cut the income of the unemployed, especially the elderly, and the restrictions on the use of social assistance have also made it difficult for the organisations to carry out paid work. So now this government proposal for regional reform threatens to make the situation worse. Good municipal operating models are being dismantled and there is a high risk that regional funding will fall into these growing social costs and employment services will then not be able to allocate sufficient funding. Minister Lindström, what is your assessment of how these reforms will affect the services of the long-term unemployed in particular, and do you not see any risk that these private employment agencies will be able to direct an unemployed job seeker into an unpaid job experiment with their own company?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u15	Madam President! This sufficiency of universal funding for the provinces will certainly be the main concern here. Let us remember that the unemployed are not all from the same tree. Surely there are those who need these rekry services, as Mr Jaskari has pointed out here, and these companies, who need them, have all the labour capacity, but then there are those unemployed who need occupational and career guidance in addition. Then there are those unemployed who need a wide range of other services, rehabilitation services, other types of social services. How will it be ensured that all these types of unemployed people are sure to have the services they need? How much funding is enough? I would have drawn attention, Madam President, to this development of a service plan and to these interfaces for private companies, that the service plan does not actually refer to the use of its own business.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u16	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministers for this excellent proposal that we should have this before us during this autumn. Of course, there is reflection. As a former regional developmenter, I have considered that the role of municipalities has been very strong, including through recruitment routes, also in recruitment training towards companies. In what way, then, in principle, are these vital services linked to these growth services? How the municipalities will function in the future is one thing. The second thing is how this cooperation goes on the ground. After all, the services of the TE Centres have now become concentrated in regional centres and, especially in peripheral regions, there are very few service points. Among other things, this largest point of contact in Finland was opened in Mänttä on the theme of how this cooperation will continue. Perhaps as a third question, I would like to ask about the continuation of these current employment experiments. Can they be continued so far as to be managed until this new Act on Growth Services enters into force that, at this stage, there is no need to lay off these people under the employment experiment who are currently in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u17	Madam President! Mr Andersson said that the government has not done enough to reduce long-term unemployment. It can always be said that not enough has been done, but, in this parliamentary term, long-term unemployment and unemployment in general have fallen very significantly, and more new jobs have been created than I remember in decades by electoral years. In this sense, this criticism is not very well founded. We are currently in an impossible situation in the country. We have huge numbers of unemployed people, and at the same time we have more and more job vacancies. These do not meet sufficiently. I would have asked the Minister what kind of studies are being carried out to find out what all the reasons are actually preventing people from finding employment? As the representatives here have said, there are people in very different situations in the unemployed, and that should be studied and investigated in order to target the right people. What kind of studies are we working on?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u18	Mr President! When Mr Zyskowicz is naturally modest, I will say just how much long-term unemployment has fallen over the past year: almost 30%. In that sense, Mr Andersson himself has been able to address the legitimate concern about long-term unemployment. In view of this present presentation, it is essential to remember that the public, or province, will continue to be the host and then private operators will be necessary men. The impact of this proposal depends, first and foremost, on the extent and conditions under which these provinces themselves acquire services from private service providers through their own decisions. And I would like to hear more about this from Minister Lindström. When all this makes sense opens up opportunities for new businesses to enter the market, if you would open this in a little more detail what ideas have been made about this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u19	Madam President! In general, I would like to remind you that although the online services are in place, personal contact and services are key in the management of employment, and this proposal has some built-in thinking that it is by increasing the number of online services that we are trying to curb the increase in costs. So perhaps we should be careful here to maintain a balance in a sensitive matter. The second point I would like to draw attention to is that the law now gives the regions a very wide range of opportunities to decide on services and, of course, enables new innovations and new kinds of services, which is a good thing, but, on the other hand, creates a challenge in how we deal with equality for all regions. So I would remind you that we must create a system that, although we have a wide range of services, they must be equal to the customer, whether he is from Kainuu or Pirkanmaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u20	Madam President! The basic prerequisite for our country's growth is that companies receive labour, and at the moment we know that there is a shortage of skilled labour in almost the whole of Finland. Unfortunately, public employment services are currently unable to meet that need. I will take one example from my own province. The municipality of Juua organises the recruitment day. Once they have been in contact with the Employment Service as to whether all municipal employees could put a letter that this kind of recruitment date exists, then the Employment Service has announced that it is not possible. Why isn't that possible, I'll ask. And the other is that the municipality has also asked if they would receive a list of the unemployed in the municipality. I hear you can't get that list. Somehow it seems that at the moment the Public Employment Service wants those people not to get a job even if they are available there in the municipality. Against that background, this government proposal is necessary and justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u21	Madam President! There are at least a few confusing points in the performance. The first is why this market belief in these employment services too is so strong that the public side is not seen as a realiser, and in particular it appears in this municipality. In other Nordic countries, when more responsibility is transferred to municipalities for managing employment services, the last ones will be taken away in Finland. For example, the question of what Pirttilahti referred to: After all, in September we will stop taking new unemployed people into the service in Tampere, even though the results have been excellent. There the long-term unemployed have been brought to the same level of employment as those dependent on earnings. But now it's decided to stop. Why does a government that believes in and strongly proclaims this experimental culture stop all the experiments that work?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u22	Mr President! When you talk about employment services, you can easily get lost in a variety of word mazes — this is quite a whole. It is important that we talk about funding and resources, but all the more important is how people meet in the services there. A total human encounter involves not taking away from a person’s own power but having an experience in which he feels that he is in control of his own life to the extent possible and is not being run by several hatches. Our services are still far too complex, fragmented, silod. I would like to see employment services and services more easily available in the future, perhaps through a one-stop shop. What, Minister, do you think this could be the case in the future, and is this a step in that direction at all or in which direction we are going?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u23	Mr President! The labour force is under special government protection. This issue was particularly raised some 40 years ago, when there were 60,000 unemployed people in the country. However, this new law now seems to be a law that privatises employment services and TE offices. However, according to the Constitution, it is still laid down that public authorities must promote employment. What is it, Minister Lindström, that you are familiar with the Constitution in this regard and do you respect it? Now it seems that the long-term unemployed, the disabled, the young and the different types of sick people, such as unemployed job seekers with addiction diseases, are completely excluded from working life. This cannot be the answer to an active model that cuts off their food for a week.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u24	Mr President! If you look back on the history of Finnish employment policy, until the recession of the 1990s, the state had a special responsibility for the most hard-working groups, the long-term unemployed and the disabled. There was a personal labour law and a regional employment obligation aimed at balancing the regional disparities in unemployment. After that, responsibility for these most difficult people was transferred to municipalities and still to the third sector, but then, through government action, the operating conditions of the third sector were also taken away, and now there is a great fear that private employment services will pay particular attention to those who are the best at work and that the long-term unemployed will continue to be put at a disadvantage. Then, when this is played within the provinces with universal money, when different needs of people, different population groups and different regions within the province are competing for the same scarce funds, there is a very great risk that the most vulnerable persons will be seriously neglected.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u25	Madam President! Indeed, the debate on the financing of employment services is appropriate because, as many people have said so far, when the funding of employment services is part of the general coverage of the regions, there is a risk that when the money runs out, there will be a reduction in employment services on the one hand, but also in social services on the other, when the regions do not have the right to tax. So the question is: what happens when employment services deteriorate? Will the inequalities in employment services continue to increase? It is very possible that it will be easier for private employment agencies to employ well-performing high-skilled unemployed people, while the less educated and older people will be put at a disadvantage. It has already been said that the active model number one has cut social protection most from older job seekers who do not have temporary jobs and who are also not provided with services.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u26	Mr President! The implementation of the Regional Law Act has been postponed by one year. Earlier here it became clear that we have good local experiments that have helped to employ citizens, and employers have been given a qualified workforce. How now in connection with the transition? Can it be thought that municipal labour trials could be postponed and continued immediately, or what is the Minister's idea? Significantly, employment appropriations are not used at this stage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u27	Mr President! Whether it is private or public is less interesting in that sense than whether they are built in such a way that they can function. The experts consulted by the Committee on Finance in connection with these legislative proposals have been concerned and even amazed by the way in which these incentives for employment services are in the wrong direction. The costs of unemployment and, on the other hand, the benefits of employment growth are to a large extent coming to the State, but the regions have less interest in managing the matter from their own point of view — in fact, very little, if the funding depends precisely on the number of unemployed people in the province. In other words, unemployment should be treated with the general coverage of making money as the higher the unemployment rate is. Minister, are you aware of this totally wrong-way incentive and are you perhaps going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u28	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Lindström, for this presentation. There are a lot of questions here, but let me ask you one more. This was about the possibility for these private employment agencies to operate in this market. It has been tried and practiced in many countries and studied in many countries. The results are slightly different: sometimes private individuals seem to work better than public ones, sometimes worse. I would like to ask you: is this Finnish way of organising cooperation and outsourcing for private employment services now something special that differs from what has been done in other countries such as Sweden or Australia or Britain or many others? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u29	Madam President! I will pay the same attention as Mr Pirttila was there a moment ago. In my opinion, these trials of employment should still be possible. They are now being put to an end in the middle of everything that has produced very good results, and Pirkanmaa is one excellent example of how much employment has been achieved. And then there's the other thing: It is true that public employment services do not cooperate adequately with new types of services developed in municipalities. I was just at Kannonkoski at the OivaEmployment and Home Services company, which looks at the customer as a whole and has an employment plan drawn up for them, and they still have this kind of project going on, where they could also study the ability of the long-term unemployed to work and other things, but the TE Offices do not want to take advantage of these services. I think this is special.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u30	Madam President! When you think about these growth services, when this employment is now limited, above all through organizations, it has taken away a great deal of rehabilitative work from us, where work done at the workplace restores people’s faith in everyday life and their ability to earn their own income and to maintain their own working condition. Then another thing that I have been wondering about in connection with the Growth Services Act is how to play the role of cooperation between municipalities and regions. It must be remembered that municipalities are currently spending around one billion euros on this type of employment activity, while it is correspondingly the state has about six hundred million euros. How will this cooperation be ensured that these sums can be rounded up and that the share of municipalities in the management of employment can also be managed at the same level as has been the case so far?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u31	Let us take six more replies, namely you who have asked for this, and then the Minister will reply. So these six are Hoskonen, Korhonen, Jarva, Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Sarkkinen and Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u32	Madam President! It is extremely necessary for the management of employment to be able to deal with as many issues as possible locally. This new Act on Growth Services and the devolution of decision-making powers into the province is welcome, absolutely welcome. And the fact that there would then be other ways of finding that job in the future is certainly a good thing. Just look at the statistics from the employment services, which came out around the weekend that two years ago there were 0.17 jobs per unemployed person, then. Now, two years later, this same figure is 0.3. I thought to myself that the figure should be in 1, i.e. there would be one job available for each unemployed person. Then at least there would be no justification to say that there is no work to be done. I understand that this is a problem, that skills are not enough for many jobs: many unemployed people would like to work, but training is not enough. There are drugs for that, too. But I ask the Minister now that you have seen the feedback from companies during the drafting of the law, which is the feedback of companies, because private companies have a crucial role to play in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u33	Mr President! I do believe strongly in the decision-makers of the provinces in these financial and policy areas in the future. These legislative proposals as such reflect this basic principle of regional reform, which gives the region more flexibility to define the needs of job seekers and businesses in its own region. I understand, of course, that certain basic, minimum levels are defined, but then the region is given a great deal of decision-making power. One small question is that, when certain minimum levels are defined, these laws also cover transport aid for companies. How's it going with these guys? Is there any definition of a specific ‘minimum level’? Is there any definition of certain areas where they are available, or how has this been thought of?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u34	Mr President! We will discuss some very important issues at the beginning of the autumn of this sitting. A lot has been said to people in the summer about how it can be possible for us to have a lot of jobs open, yet there are still too many unemployed people and unemployment. It has been a very good thing when there are also regions in Finland that have long had difficulties with unemployment, that employment has developed and unemployment has decreased, especially in those regions, especially in Northern and Eastern Finland. In particular, long-term unemployment has gone for the better. It is a very good thing that now, with the budget debate, wage subsidies are being increased for organisations. This has been the expected improvement. I wonder whether it has been thought in the Ministry that, now that many of these conversion, replacement and recruitment training courses are open and that there will not even be enough applicants and yet it will be necessary to retrain these new jobs, whether these resources are sufficient now or how to encourage this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u35	Mr President! Two more very specific questions for the Minister: Is it intended that the unemployed person, i.e. the customer, will choose the service provider himself in the future? And if so, does the Minister feel that a long-term unemployed person has the capacity to choose for himself the best service provider able to meet his needs? And if you do not exercise this freedom of choice, does that mean that you fall out of the service or the benefits go away? My second question concerns the protection of privacy: has this matter been carefully ensured now that information could also be provided to private companies in the future? In my view, the legislation currently disagrees on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u36	Mr President! As has been said here on many fronts, the employment experiment has brought good experience of transferring overall responsibility for employment care to one hand and increasing responsibility for municipalities. However, these successful employment experiments are unfortunately being driven down and replaced by a vague alliance model and regions struggling with the adequacy of money. It is not that I do not believe in the wisdom and good will of the provincial decision-makers, but that I doubt whether in the provinces the money will be enough to provide employment services, when this market war is taking up an ever-increasing share of funding and there is still a desire to cut funding and the regions do not have their own funding channel, i.e. tax law. County decision-makers are placed in an impossible situation. Mr President! In the employment experiment, state money and municipal money have been used together to organise seamless service chains, and now the threat is that state money will no longer be controlled and, on the other hand, the incentives of municipalities will be reduced. Would it not be worth extending these experiments to nationalities instead of the end of the trials? I have some doubts that the Alliance model itself does not provide sufficient resources for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u37	And Mr. Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u38	Mr President! Let me also say that I believe that there is no reason for anyone in this Chamber to be particularly pleased with the way in which long-term unemployment has been treated in Finland. Among other things, the reduction of the human resources of the TE Offices has been a trend that started before this government term and has weakened the situation of unemployed people in particular in need of personal service. Mr President! In this situation in particular, given that all the resources should be used to reduce long-term unemployment, would it not be sensible, Minister Lindström — as Mr Sarkkinen has said here — to continue these trials of municipalities, which have produced good results and which are in operation and which are also welcomed by local decision-makers even in the government parties? Another indication that the system is not working in a good way is that there is a lack of pay subsidies in a situation where everything should be done to reduce long-term unemployment. Would it not, Minister Lindström, now make sense to facilitate the use of pay subsidies for organisations?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u39	And then the Minister's answers, and then we go to the list of speakers. - Minister, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u40	Mr President! If we start now with these regional experiments. Indeed, the government discussed this issue in that budget debate because it has received feedback both from the opposition and from within the government parties. We do not want to be inconvenient here, but the regional trial law goes so far as to have that content different from that of the future world in relation to these experiments. So that law is not going to continue because it is not in line with the regional model. In the current experiment municipalities have been transferred responsibility for providing public employment and business services, and in the future provincial model there is no such responsibility. That is why we have brought to this debate this alliance model, which has been set off in various regions in a very constructive way. We have had a good, constructive discussion with municipalities, regions, including the good results of the Pirkanmaa region and we have made progress. The observation that has come to me in this way is that why Pirkanmaa’s results have been so good: 1) There is for the first time realised such as the importance of cooperation. Surprise, surprise, this is the purpose, and this is the purpose of the future growth service. Let's do it together. We can do better. 2) These information systems, which, in fact, were raised in a few questions: we are constantly considering it and now want more detailed information on what information is needed in the regions so that they do not hinder the continuation of good work, including in alliance models. There are very big data protection issues here. It is certainly not an easy thing to hand over information about an unemployed person to another authority. We are certainly not difficult here, but this house has drawn up laws according to which we are, of course, going, and they are trying to be creative. In a constructive way, there is a debate with Pirkanmaa and with other regions about what we can do to promote its future alliance world. There were a lot of questions about this funding here, and that was the beginning of this debate. Its overall budget is affected by this kind of growth service factor, which then takes into account, among other things, the number of unemployed in the region. The aim is that in future the regions will have the same amount of money available for these services for the unemployed. This is the idea from which we started. Now there is concern about these private service providers: in Pirkanmaa, for example, these results have also come very much from the fact that there have been good private service providers. I am somewhat disturbed — and I hope I have not misunderstood this — by the criticism of the private service provider on the one hand and the call on the continuation of these experiments in growth services, on the other hand, when the good results have been very much based on cooperation with these private service providers. This proposal does not privatise public employment and business services. This makes it possible to make wider use of private service providers, but does not directly shift any role to private service providers. And this is what I want to say clearly. In the future, the province will have a really big responsibility for the organisation of the Growth Services Act, and then each province will decide for itself which services to use. This is the big question of why these long-term unemployed and those most in employment are not better off and whether there is any explanation of these: Yes, these have been clarified, and the observation is that the means we currently have in the employment services are no longer sufficient for us to be able to deal with these people who are the hardest to find employment. Therefore, not only is this growth service reform, but it is this disability programme — one small part of which was the approval of Lex Lindström in second place. But that workable program is the big umbrella under which, at the end of October, when this study is handed over, it is the first time that we really have access to what we really have to do with these people. To sum up, these people are in the wrong services. We need to get them to the right services. In part, this growth service reform also responds to this, but this is not enough. Many measures must therefore be taken. So this doesn't correspond to everything. So I did not have time to answer many questions here, but the debate has started very constructively. Let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u41	Now, at this point, we are going on the list of speakers, as I promised just now, and I am sure we will return to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u42	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a proper presentation of the legislative package. This legislation on growth services, which is now subject to substantive laws, is very important even in the sense that it is a major change in the strategic governance of the state and municipalities in such a way as to weaken the governance of growth, business and employment services and increase the role and responsibility of the regions. I would not have given up on the role of the state and the municipalities so much. Sote means changing the functions of municipalities: municipalities have to build their own vitality for their own strengths and, above all, focus on industrial, investment, education, education, youth and planning policies. Would it not have been logical for this thinking to have been mutually supportive of the services of industry, education, employment and knowledge at the municipal level as well? Thirdly, there has been a lot of talk here about the challenges of universal financing, and here there is the risk that this social policy will take up a considerable part of this funding, understandably, and it may happen that the funding of these growth, business and employment services will remain on the mop unless it is clearly earmarked and controlled. Fourthly, the role of municipalities should not be weakened, especially in the case of those who are harder to employ than is currently the case. Municipalities invest more than one billion a year in the management of employment, and if such a reform comes, it will weaken or at least make this central role of municipalities more difficult. In this respect, these experiments on long-term unemployment have been important and it would be good if they could continue in the future. The same applies to TYP services, which are the first company to receive social services, employment services and Kela services by opening the same door. This is the type of concept we need at municipal level.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u45	Mr President! The reform of growth services raises a number of concerns, particularly from the point of view of the long-term unemployed and those hard to employ. After all, this bill is just one of many others. Although I am in that Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, I feel that it is very difficult to understand the synergies and the whole of the laws, especially when these laws come at a very different pace. As a result, for example, the service path for the long-term unemployed has not been sufficiently clear for me, at least not yet. Nor have I understood why well-functioning models, such as these municipal trial models, are going to be discontinued, and I still did not, in my opinion, get a reasonable response from the Minister and did not get a clear picture of what this alliance model actually means. We have asked experts in the committee in the spring, and if I have asked ten experts, then I have received eight different answers to what the alliance means in practice, so that it is very vague for me now.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u48	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for the answer that came from these experiments and for bringing forward this alliance model. This is indeed a rather fast time cycle: indeed, as early as September, these negotiations are already taking place in these experiments of ours. I would like to see a continuation, and if a parliament needed or needed to change a law, we could go over this matter a little bit, so that perhaps there could be a consensus in this Chamber to bring a new perspective like this until this new provincial legislation is in force. Pirkanmaa has 320 employees in this experiment. The change back to the TE Offices is quite stressful, of course, with regard to staff, but indeed the results of this experiment have been very pleased there. Perhaps it is in the Employment and Economic Development Office and perhaps in the Ely Centre that, as you said, Minister, cooperation has been found. That is a successful experiment, if it has progressed in cooperation with various parties. There's been a bit of a problem. My colleague, Mrs Korhonen, will probably come to thank you for this cooperation in her speech in the future. I am a little critical of the fact that perhaps we have been slow in moving to this alliance model in Pirkanmaa, and hopefully these have now been turned over. For this regional activity itself: One very important part of growth services in the business sector and in municipalities has been recruitment: how companies have been able to do it and how the workforce has been obtained. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy was consulted on the activities of Meyer and Uusikaupunki, among others. Especially in cases where it is very acute to have a good workforce there, it is important that it continues to work with the municipal and city economic activities. That is to say, cooperation — I hope that the Minister will make a strong point about it in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u49	Mr President! Good debate on improving the quality of employment services. I believe that we have a common objective here, and it is also desirable across party boundaries, as Mr Pirttilatti mentioned, that the good practices that have now been achieved here, for example through the employment experiment, would not be forgotten, however legal it may be, in the future. And I am also thinking about the fact that the provinces are very different from each other, but of course there are very different and different areas and conditions within the provinces, and it is good to continue to ensure that information about each municipality goes all the way to the province. I think that this alliance model is a welcome development here. It offers answers to the fact that cooperation is being carried out, and it is not just a matter of whether people get along with each other or whether they happen to be motivated to cooperate, but also a reminder from the state of the need for cooperation. I myself am concerned about the risk that has arisen, i.e. whether this universal funding will eventually be sufficient for growth services, but if there is such a growth service allowance and if there is to be care that there is not going to be a situation where, for example, growing health services start to swallow up the money for growth services, then we will probably be more or less safe. I would also address this digitalisation, which has already been raised here, and I repeat what I said in the debate. In other words, there is a need to increase e-services and they certainly are needed, and for some they are very good, but when we go to, for example, the ageing population, there are quite a few so-called digital gaps in this society and we must ensure that we do not increase online services at the cost of reducing personal contact, which is most impressive. So it is good that there are a lot of different services available, and we will try to start developing things so that everyone will also find that service.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u50	Mr President! A few key questions. The Minister said that the same money will continue to be available to the provinces as it is at present. I have the courage to doubt it. I venture to suspect, therefore, that municipalities have at present also invested heavily in the management of long-term unemployment and that it has not come on its own. It has come through our joint financial responsibility for labour market support. It has come from the fact that we have had statutory labour service centres and experiments before that. It is the end of a long process. And now the big risk is that a large part of this municipal money, which has been spent on services for the long-term unemployed, will disappear because, as the Minister said, there is no desire to continue to experiment with municipalities in the Ministry because municipalities will not have the same role in employment as they do in the future. That is the fundamental question. The municipality has been close to a person, the municipality has been close to the unemployed, and thus it has been able to make good results in cooperation with other actors, and this link is now disappearing. Municipalities can only provide services without competitive tendering in the event of market disruption. And if we look at the workshops for young people, I dare say that a large part of them will disappear because they cannot function in this competitive market. The municipalities do not go to the company and take them to the competition, but say that when they are no longer allowed to operate, then the jar and the lid of the jar will be put on. Well, the second thing related to this municipal experiment is that it has created cooperation models and it has come as a result of a long process. Now, when the madhouse is started and the unemployed are moved back from Pirkanmaa, for example, back to the official office of the TE administration and, in the meantime, the alliance will be built, the existing cooperation structures will be broken down. They need to be partially rebuilt. For example, how do we deal with the situation where we have had an employment agency that has been there in schools and targeted directly at young people? Things like this are now at risk. And there is also this timetable: we know that pilot legislation is one that must go to the Constitutional Committee, and at the end of September we will stop taking new unemployed people into these municipal trials. It depends on how the Constitutional Committee is able to deal with, for example, the fact that a private operator receives this information, which has so far been, as it were, inside data protection — for example, it has not been possible to provide the municipalities with information about who the unemployed are and access to the career system. I am surprised that, if you can now give information to private companies, what does our Constitution say about this? And if this pilot escapes here, then the whole beautiful fantasy of how the Alliances will then transfer these trials to the provincial government that will be there. Another concern relates to the fact that the Growth Services Act states that service needs assessment is a public authority task. This law states that it can be done by a private service provider. It would be nice to know which one the government thinks it is now, whether it is a public authority mission or something that a private service provider can do. I see it in a way that the assessment of service needs is, in a certain way, the guardian of the gate to those costs as well. Now, if a private producer is allowed to choose which services it needs, and then it starts to provide those services to that customer, how does that province manage the costs? And then when we come to this cost side as a whole, my big concern is that... They're counting on county leaders here. So do I, but the problem is that if we have the social services, which are laid down by strict laws, that this and this must be provided so far, and the very loosely regulated employment services, where we can innovate and do all the interesting things new, then it will be that those social services will be produced, but when the money runs out, the employment services will not produce. The third concern relates to the way in which the long-term unemployed act as a whole in terms of power and responsibility. If we go to the private companies and when we go to the profit-earning side, which in itself is a positive thing, then the risk is that it is, as it were, the cream peeling that takes place there within the company, as happened in Britain in the early stages and then a number of rules were introduced to regulate this whole in order to control it. And if we go as far as e-services as the whole regional reform seems to go, the problem is that there are a million people in this country who are unable to use e-services in the way they should, and an even greater proportion of the long-term unemployed. In that sense, I am sad that, for example, these interviews, which this government has built up in legislation, are no longer guaranteed in this province model. By the way, in Denmark they have produced a better employment benefit of between 3% and 4% when they have been made face-to-face with people, not by telephone, not by group interviews, but by private service to customers. And the word that needs to be stressed is “serving.”
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u51	Mr President! I think that the legislative package presented by Minister Lindström is very good and worthy of support. It is clear that the employment situation has now been brought about by tough and sensible and strong measures in this country. As has been said, two years ago, for every unemployed person, there were 0.17 job vacancies, at the moment the figure is 0.3. In other words, the situation towards the unemployed has radically improved, but the unemployment rate is still too high, and we need new means and precisely the means to tackle unemployment. And this is what this law is made for. This is, of course, related to the famous regional reform and the fact that growth services and many other services are being brought closer to people. It is difficult for me to understand the tone of this debate that, when services and decision-making are dispersed — as has already been done everywhere else in Europe, we are going to have to go a long way in this area — now that such a reform is being carried out, I have heard many opposing speeches that bureaucracy should not be dismantled but should be increased. After all, we have seen the effects of bureaucracy in this country before, so why should it not now be dismantled and decision-making and work and the distribution of funding bring it closer to people? The fact that a private entrepreneur finds a job for someone who is unemployed and genuinely uses employment and actually goes forward with a model of cooperation is a good thing. As Minister Lindström said in his own speech, this is not about privatizing anything, it is about cooperating strongly between the various actors. This is something to remember and should not be intimidated by things that do not exist. I therefore hope that this bill will be dealt with quickly and fluently, so that growth services in the provinces can act in such a way as to genuinely find the right person for jobs to do the work and to train people to do the work in those empty jobs. It is true that we have disabled people who must then retire with dignity. As Minister Lindström has said many times in his own speeches, the retirement of people who find it overwhelmingly difficult to find employment after five years of unemployment, for example, should be dealt with by other legislation. It is a good thing that this package, which is currently under discussion, is to solve the problems for which nothing has been properly done centrally. The world has changed a lot. Are we going to accept it, or are we going to fight back? Each of us has a choice to make, but my choice is that we have to live with this world, bring new ways of employment and get all the people who are able to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u52	Mr President! As has been said, these legislative proposals also reflect this fundamental starting point for regional reform, which gives the region more flexibility to define these needs for job seekers and businesses in its own region. So, instead of looking everywhere with a similar sapluon, one is able to view according to the needs of one’s own province. I understand in that way that this law also defines the minimum level of services, i.e. the basic level of services for all in a certain way, such as employment services and skills development services, but the provinces themselves can then define ‘additional services’. Here, of course, the decision-makers of the province will have to assess, as has been said here, the way in which all the activities of the province can be managed in relation to that universal funding. I trust the county authorities, but, of course, this financial relationship needs to be assessed very carefully. But, in fact, the reason I came here is that I have also gone through these legislative proposals with quite a large number of TE Offices and asked how they are now assessing these content laws. There is a common conclusion that laws and proposals are good and take this whole in the right direction, but they have also made certain remarks which should be taken into account in the drafting of this law. A few points about them: First of all, the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) state that the region should have the primary responsibility for the customer's service process in relation to the organisation function, i.e. they consider that the decentralised responsibility would not work very well in practice. Secondly, the proposal is based on the digital nature of services. Therefore, the objectives of the proposal are only fulfilled for customers who have the opportunity and ability to use digital services, i.e. digital services are always complemented by strong personal control work. The third point of reference is also the concept of customer self-activity and activity. Customers now and in the future have a large number of people who are not active and self-employed in their job search or in their whole lives. In the opinion of the TE Offices, this should also be taken into account. Fourth, it is necessary to impose an active job search obligation on the customer only at the stage of employment. In particular, those who need cross-sector services also require other measures before the actual stage of employment. Fifthly, it is found that the name of growth service training is poor. It does not describe the content of the service in any way and is difficult to understand for the customer. A single training heading cannot describe many different types of training that are covered by the name of growth service training. The name should be such that it does not have to be explained much and describe the content directly. Sixthly, the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) state that the quantitative limits for defining the service needs of customers in need of cross-sectoral services, i.e. 12 months of unemployment and so on, should be removed from the legal text. As such, the law directs the discovery of multidisciplinary service needs too late. Seventhly, the equality of services must be ensured in order to guarantee equal treatment for customers. Eighthly, the authorities already have a built-in responsibility for data protection and confidentiality. These responsibilities should also be extended to service providers, and attention should be paid to this in the preparation of the law. And on the ninth day, obligations such as those of the public authorities of service providers must be clearly defined by law. In other words, this type of wish from that direction of the Employment and Economic Development Offices, and of course these will also arise here in the House.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u53	Mr President! During the summer, I visited several SMEs and met dozens of small entrepreneurs in different contexts. Almost everyone was concerned about the availability of skilled labour. Many entrepreneurs would like to expand their business and hire more staff, but when you do not get a job anywhere or in any way, not even if you pay a little higher salary than those laid down in collective agreements. Many also thought that the unemployed who are on earnings-related per diem are not always interested in pay and flexible working hours, the difference between pay and earnings-related per diem, when they often lose out on commuting expenses and the purse does not get fat despite being at work. The draft law under discussion provides for the service process for jobseekers and services provided as regional growth services. The aim is to improve the functioning of the labour market, access to skilled labour and, of course, access to employment for those seeking employment. The county would be obliged to organise recruitment services, career guidance and growth service training. The region should provide information on the availability and opportunities of skilled labour, provide advice and guidance on recruitment and job search, and coordinate job opportunities and jobseekers. These tasks would be carried out by staff in existing Ely Centres and Employment and Economic Development Offices and by a transfer of approximately EUR 600 million from the state to the provinces. It would be possible for the regions to transfer to service providers more widely the tasks currently being carried out by the employment and economic authorities. However, the tasks would not be carried out directly by the service provider, but the assignment of tasks to the service provider would be considered by the province. The region would consider which services it would provide itself and which services it would obtain from private service providers. Mr President! During the summer, I also heard that people are becoming more and more employed past the so-called official channels, directly through recruitment or through a friend. I believe that employment is more important than the way in which work is sought or offered. Employment is everything. In my opinion, this law brings closer to businesses in the province, training providers, labour force and employment agencies. This is a clear improvement on current practice, and that is why I am in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u54	Mr President! Employment in Finland is our destiny. We are well behind the rest of the Nordic countries in terms of employment rates. The fact that the government is now able to raise our employment rate to 72 is a good thing, but only an intermediate objective. If we want to end our debt and do our services with honor, we must follow the rest of the Nordic region. For example, the employment rate in Sweden is already over 80%. Well, the provinces and the business services that are being released have a point of view. Until now, employment services and employment have been managed and evaluated at national level. Although municipalities have invested more than one billion a year in improving employment, the means to correct the situation in different regions are relatively formal and national. Our regions are quite different in terms of employment structure and employment rates. For example, in Kainuu, my homeland. Our employment rate before the beginning of this government was barely 60 per cent. It has now been corrected to 66%, up to 71% for women, but only to 62% for men. This is a different province than the others. Nevertheless, we have a huge shortage of skilled labour. So we are all behind the other provinces, and this of course has its own history. More than ten years ago, the lack of prospects in the forest industry led to a situation in eastern and northern Finland where the men’s unemployment rate fell. The end of a school of teachers over 100 years of age in Kajaani also contributed to the same type of problems, so it well explains why our starting point is low. These cooperation models and structures for the management of employment rates require regional objectives and thus targeted flexible structures. How to do this by combining national good practices and models with regional solutions is a good question. That is why it is important to deal with this legislative package in committee. They should listen to experts from different regions and nationalities and make the necessary corrections.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u55	Mr President! Many good speeches have already been made in this Chamber, and thank you for that. I have worked in the field of employment management for a long time and have seen a number of changes that have shaken this field in some respects. From time to time, the environment has been almost chaotic as a result of a tempting employment policy. This has frustrated both job seekers and workers in the field. The provision of services and their long-term development have been almost impossible with constant changes and in the midst of them. Against this background, it is no wonder that it has been easy to call activity ineffective. However, we have to look in the mirror because it is partly self-inflicted. One thing has not changed, however, and it is the need for support and guidance for people who have been unemployed longer. Sometimes it means hand-in-hand help. This is not done quickly, at a time of 15 minutes or half an hour, but it is a matter of long-term, intensive and, above all, personal guidance. As has been said, e-services are by no means responding to these needs. I do not want to blame the work done at the TE Office, but the fact is that the cuts in operating costs over the years have led to a situation in which the service cannot be provided in a similar way. I am not saying that companies cannot provide these services, but one thing is clear: they often cannot or will not be able to do rehabilitative work, and it is actually unreasonable to demand it. This has been a strong message in many places, especially from the business field. They can and often want to take on social responsibility, but charities cannot be taken up by market players. With rehabilitative work, no one can claim to be profitable in real terms, or to be honest. Responsibility for this lies with the public sector, and we can only ask how resources will be sufficient for this in the future if strong support from the organisation field is not supported by the public sector. It is difficult not to conclude that the importance of the role of organisations and the third sector or of the management of long-term unemployment in terms of both human well-being and the economic management of municipalities and regions has not been understood in growth services. The focus is too much on those who are easily employable and easily employable. Another point: I am very concerned that, with the reform of the province, responsibility and also the right to employment are being taken away from the municipalities. They are certainly not going to put these services into operation, and even less so will the operators of the organisations. I understand that for smaller municipalities this reform may be a relief, but as far as cities and urban areas are concerned, this is certainly not the case. Many cities, as well as urban areas — including Jyväskylä — have excellent integration of growth services, business advice, employment management and co-operation with the third sector under the corporate administration into the business unit. When, in the context of the regional reform, the responsibility for vitality rests with municipalities, the transfer of employment services from cities to the province must be strongly questioned. Active management of employment is a key element of local economic policy. I would like to ask the question: how are these conditions to be met after the reform? The definition of cooperation at the regional and municipal divisions is rather vague. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u56	Mr President! It is easy to sign many things in Minister Lindström's speech. However, I would like to make the employment experiment in Pirkanmaa more specific when you said that its foundation is working together. I personally consider this side of the stone leg, and the other side, which was not said, is that the municipalities of Pirkanmaa have invested tens of millions of euros in this employment experiment in addition to public aid. And that brings us to the problems of this legislative package. You yourself said that in the future there will be the same amount of money available for employment services as there is now. Even in Pirkanmaa, this money would not have produced the results of this experiment, and it interferes with the progress of this legislative package. The Government has had a good overall objective this season to increase personal services, because, as is stated in this legislative package and its explanatory statement, personal contact with the customer in employment services is the most effective activity. We were supporting temporary interviews every three months. The problem was that they were not given sufficient resources at the time, and it has led to the situation that, as early as last year, there were fewer personal meetings at the TE Offices than in the previous year, although last year the number of unemployed persons was not yet on a major decline and even though these three-month interviews had to multiply them. The same problem persists when these services are exported to private purchasing services without additional funding, and that is what worries us.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u57	Mr President! The actual responsibilities of the provincial administration relating to this law are already under discussion in the Administrative Committee and, as someone has said here, experts have all said that the law cannot be dealt with until these substantive and financial laws are in place. Not that that law has progressed terribly from there anyway, because it is still in the middle of the Constitutional Committee and others. But this is a whole which must be taken into account, and I hope that the funding for this will also come if and when we want to take this forward. A few additional questions for this data protection include: When we are still in the middle of this data protection law, which it is also in the Administrative Committee, because it is still waiting for the Constitutional Committee to deal with it, and when I understand that there are a number of issues that are becoming more stringent in terms of data protection, such as data protection for social services, but also in this case data protection for employment services, my question is: do the government and the Minister see that, in this respect, in the context of this law, this data protection issue can be loosened in accordance with current laws and in accordance with the future data protection law, so that private companies can have access to all this information? Here a representative asked why the municipalities did not provide that information. Because that information is not available to the municipalities. In many cases, municipalities could have taken measures much earlier if they had received information through Kela about the people who fall into that long-term unemployment. Now, in this experiment in Pirkanmaa, this has been done, but from now on it will no longer be carried out, because this information is not needed for the municipalities, because the municipalities will have no chance of doing any of these tasks in the future. So this data protection is another issue. On the municipal side, the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities last week took a very firm position that these experiments should continue because the experience is so good, because, for example, across the Nordic countries, our control countries, these are done and carried out with good, goal-oriented work and results all the time. Only Finland has taken the ideological option of removing tasks from the municipalities and taking services away from people. I am also surprised by the fact that the amount invested by municipalities in employment management currently amounts to some 800 million to 1 billion, and it is then possible, according to the government, to throw it away from employment, so to speak. Now to this workshop question: I have been around some workshops this summer, and there, especially on the side of the youth workshops, the confusion is great. The workshop association had reported that, in the future, five out of all the hundreds of workshops currently in operation would be possible on the same line, so to speak, on market terms, if they all had to be incorporated. Then another question, for example for young people, is what happens to those young people who are currently able to attend a workshop, for example, within secondary education, so that some of those studies can be read immediately and moved flexibly inside the school to the workshop and to the school side and back if necessary, if the school fails. How will these work in the future if one of them is on the market in a purely corporate form? And then the funding: if all the employment service funding is in one pot in that province, how much does the minister see going into secondary education to cooperate with that business? Here are a few more questions for that recent package.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u58	Mr President! Many legitimate concerns have been expressed in this Chamber today about the financing of employment services. I would like to ask the Minister a question: could not legislation define a minimum level of funding for the regions for employment services, so to speak, earmarking funding for employment services? This in this great change and in the situation of social services and cost pressures, in order to ensure that the funding of employment services remains even at the current level, while genuine concern is that less money is being allocated to employment services, both state money and municipal money. However, resources and services are needed, especially for the management of long-term unemployment, and it is a matter of personal service and guidance, face-to-face encounter. It requires resources. It will not only be resolved by changing the system, so this level of funding is an essential issue for workers to guide the unemployed, to provide them with support, advice and guidance. In addition to this question of funding, I would like to ask the Minister again the question I have already asked: how do you assess whether this law and this new structure will increase the amount of unpaid work in Finland when companies that manage these employment services in the future will be able to direct a person, a customer, to an unpaid work experiment with another company or even to their own company? I personally consider this to be a very problematic development if this happens. Although the decisions on sanctions will continue to be made by the authority, the company in charge of the service chain will have significant power over people’s livelihoods and unpaid work, if that is the case. This is also an essential issue in terms of the legal security of the unemployed or of a healthy labour market, if there is a significant increase in unpaid work, which I would not like to see happen. Mr President! The essential question for the unemployed really is whether they receive high-quality personal guidance on a low threshold from a single door. And this is perhaps the secret which has led to the success of these employment experiments. The concern is that this will not happen in the future if the resources are small and if the interface between municipalities and regions in the management of employment services is unclear. Indeed, I would like to see a nationalisation of employment trials instead of a shutdown. I do not think that the only reason why successful experiments have been brought down is because they do not fit in with this politically elected regional model and the logic that has not yet been initiated and the laws that have not yet been passed on it. Mr President! The criticisms of the major cities about social and regional reform are largely geared to the growth service sector. Of course, there is also criticism of the planned organisation and financing model of social and health services, but it is very much about this sector of growth services and the fact that cities do not have a sufficient role to play in the management of vital life and employment services. Cities would have the capacity, the capacity, the overall responsibility for managing employment, and now that we look at developments, unemployment and, in particular, long-term unemployment are rather concentrated in large urban areas, so there should also be tools and opportunities to take action and take responsibility for managing employment, especially when there is a willingness and capacity to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u59	Mr President! As I said earlier in my brief reply, there is quite an impossible situation in Finland when we have a very large number of unemployed people and, at the same time, we have a very large number of job vacancies that cannot be recruited by skilled workers. This is a dilemma for which it would be useful to obtain more detailed and researched information. If I understood correctly, the Minister said that there was a study going on which might be available in about a month's time and where efforts have been made to analyse this problem. If and when this is the case, it is very good that efforts have been made to clarify this so that we know about our unemployed, who are concerned with the lack of adequate and/or appropriate training, who are concerned with the fact that the capacity to work has actually been reduced too much, who are involved in incentives traps or so-called red tape traps and so on. Such information is very important. It is important both, I would say, at the macro level in order to stimulate policy action correctly, and also, and above all, at the micro level, so that the right people are covered by the right support and assistance systems. So I would have asked the Minister — when I do not know what is going on — whether it has actually sought to assess, on the basis of some of the interviews or other sufficient sampling, this group of us unemployed, which is not, of course, a homogeneous group, but which has a variety of different reasons for why this situation has taken place. I personally feel that, as I said, this information is urgently needed both for policy-making and for helping these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u60	Mr Mäkipää and then the Minister have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u61	Mr President! I've been a listening student here. I am not familiar with these legislative proposals, but I listened here to Pirkanmaa that this town-runer has produced good results. I'm sure it is. I live in Pirkanmaa, which has 22 municipalities. There were ten municipalities in the municipal experiment. Pirkanmaa has small and large companies. And it has to be said that the employment figures of Pirkanmaa have been all the way down. Why? There has been a lot of export industry there. Then it is often said that when the economy has gone up, this has contributed to the shortage of labour in small municipalities. New companies have been built, of course has been kicked out, but there is this kind of positive situation, where even without a municipal experiment in Pirkanmaa has gone to industry. And then there has also been growth in the services and health sector and in the transport sector, so I don't think this municipal experiment alone has contributed to it. Then I would also like to ask, when we keep talking about them, let us say now, the problem of the unemployed. Has the labour administration already been cleaned up, so it is said in national terms, the unemployed who never work? They'd have to go to the rest of the social hatch. This is all a waste of time. As far as this alliance model is concerned: When I have tried to listen here, the various parties involved in the negotiations are openly planning all the projects together. Let us discuss together and then recruit together and use this expertise together, so I do not think that this alliance model is as bad as it may have been here. Then I would like to ask how small municipalities would then be able to do this when it was said that they could be involved in this alliance model. Well, let's not throw the axe at the minister's neck, shall we?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u62	Mr President! I am going to start with this report, because there were now some questions about what this means. We have never — at least this is what I have been told — gone so far into the hard core of unemployment. We always talk about it. So this is not the problem of the previous government, but of many, many governments. Let me take an example from Lahti. The bay is a big city. There, this hard core of unemployment is about 15 to 16 points, i.e. a huge number of people who are in the wrong measures, as I said in my recent speech. In order for us to know what we're talking about, we need to figure this out. That is why the rapporteurs, Mrs Raija Käättä, who is a professor of social affairs, and Mrs Oivo, who is then an expert on employment policy, are working together to identify the various actors involved in the interviews: what we are talking about, what measures should be taken for these people. They're handing over this report to Pirkko Mattila and me on the last day of October. The schedule is like this because this board would be able to launch some measures, but I hope that those measures will move, a large part of them, to the next government. That is why I am now looking in the direction of the opposition: if you are sitting in the next government, this is a question which, in my opinion, is not a government-opposition issue, but must be resolved at national level and with a variety of measures. This is not enough for someone as such to adjust a good lex or someone like this, but this is a much bigger question. We have part-time workers in this country who unfortunately do not have access to the labour market. There are a lot of people there who would like to work, but they are, for example, trapped in the diagnosis made by that first doctor. They can't retire, they can't get to work, they can't get anywhere. We need to figure this out. The idea is that as many people as possible would be customised to get back to work with the abilities and forces they have left. That is the point here, but at the same time we must recognise that there are people among us who will never be employed in an open labour market. We need to find a human solution for them. This means a lot of different measures, and if we can solve this... The feedback from the TE authorities to me on this point is that if you do that, it will release a huge amount of resources from the TE administration to work for those people who may already be required to act. So this is actually the picture, and it is good that this decision was made in the row. That's what I'm really happy about, because this is really a big deal. But then let's go to these questions. Representative Järvinen for these periodic interviews: resources have been added to them, and at the end of May these interviews have been carried out around 70%, so that we are in a good direction, we are still working. Municipalities have made a significant contribution to the management of employment, and we certainly hope that this investment will continue in the future. Somehow I find it terribly difficult to understand — I understand this debate and this feedback, which has come here too — that in future the municipalities would not have something insensive to handle employment through vital tasks. You'd think that would interest all the municipalities in the future. Although these trials of municipalities do not continue at present, they do not in any way go to waste. They can take the good practices and measures and take them to the Alliance model, and most of the regions have taken part in this. The role of municipalities does not change in any way, except for those regions that have had this trial of municipalities. They temporarily had these certain freedoms, which will now disappear because they do not comply with future legislation. This debate is a constant debate on the question of responsibility for organisation. This has been the top priority here, but we have constantly engaged in dialogue with the regions and hoped that through this alliance this sum will be opened. Neither this nor any other reform therefore alters the role of municipalities. This service needs assessment, when it comes to assessing the need for services at customer group level, is the role of the regional authorities. The region assesses the categories of customers in its territory, what services are needed in view of the labour market situation in the region and the needs of companies and how money is allocated to them. On the other hand, the assessment of the individual customer’s service needs may also be the responsibility of the service provider. This has also been found appropriate in these experiments in Pirkanmaa, and this is now being brought forward to the legislation. I'm sorry I don't have time to answer everything. But for these organizations' salaries: So we decided that this roof of 3000, which has become angry feedback, was now temporarily raised to 4000 next year, but the objective is that we will have legislation in favour of making this 100 % wage subsidy for organisations in the future through the criteria, through what we hope of it. We don't have time, this government doesn't have time to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u63	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Education, Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u64	Mr President! Now we go to the second whole, to the law on promoting integration. This is not intended to change the structure, scope and initial integration services defined by the Act. That's not what this is about. In the future, the province would be an important player in promoting integration when the services promoting integration are organised as social services, growth services and other services promoting integration under the responsibility of organising the region. The province has general and co-ordination responsibility for the development, planning and monitoring of the integration of immigrants in the province. These integration-promoting services would be organised as part of the regional responsibility for organising growth services and social and health services, basic municipal services, the national education system and then as other services promoting integration, and the region would be obliged to coordinate the planning of integration with the municipalities of its region. Due to the social and regional reform, the tasks of municipalities are subject to significant changes, which will be taken into account in this proposal. The municipality will continue to be a key integration player and the present proposal does not alter the general obligation of the municipality to be responsible for the planning and development of municipal services promoting the integration of immigrant residents at the municipal level. Both the province and the municipality should take into account the national integration objectives and assess in advance the impact of their decisions on different groups of immigrants. In addition, integration needs to be developed through cross-sectoral cooperation and the competence of its own staff in integration. Measures to promote the integration of the State will remain unchanged in this proposal. The integration services provided by the current Act on Integration, such as the initial assessment, the integration plan and integration training, remain the same in substance as they are today. Furthermore, no changes are proposed to the scope of the law, i.e. the law applies to a person who has a valid residence permit in Finland within the meaning of the Aliens Act or whose right of residence is registered or has been issued with a residence card in accordance with the Aliens Act. In future, the law would not apply to asylum seekers who have not yet been granted a residence permit. If deemed appropriate, the region could also entrust the service provider with activities related to the immigrant service process. The service provider could handle the preparation, monitoring and guidance of the customer’s initial assessment and integration plan for the services. The service provider would carry out the tasks laid down by law and under it on the basis of a contract with the province or a decision to approve the service provider of the province and the conditions governing the provision of the service. A few words about steering the municipality: As regards steering the municipality, the proposal strengthens the connection of steering to regional development and the planning of the regional strategic integration. In the future, the province would be responsible for planning and developing the steering of the municipality in the province. The planning of steering the municipality would be based on the objectives and priorities set out in the national regional development decision under the Regional Development Act on Regional Development and Growth Services, which the Government could then define more precisely if necessary in order to ensure the smooth functioning and national distribution of the municipality. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy would prepare national planning for steering the municipality, if necessary in cooperation with ministries and regions that are key to steering the municipality. The municipalities will also be consulted to the extent necessary. According to the proposal, a province would be responsible for directing the municipality of refugees. The Act also provides for an operating model in which the reception centre could also direct the applicant for a residence permit from the reception centre to the municipality. For quota refugees, the province is responsible for directing the municipality in cooperation with the Finnish Immigration Service. A person who has received a residence permit could also move to the municipality independently without directing the province or reception centre, in which case he or she organises his or her own residence and move to the municipality. According to the proposal, the State would continue to pay imputed compensation for the reception of beneficiaries of international protection and the provision of integration services to municipalities. The calculation of the cost of organising the initial assessment and the cost of interpreting, interpreting and interpreting services shall be included in this calculation. However, the reimbursement of specific costs paid by the State to municipalities would mainly be waived and would be transferred to the general coverage of the provinces. Part of the costs of interpreting would also be transferred to the general coverage of the provinces. Therefore, this proposal is estimated to have an administrative cost-reducing effect in both municipalities and regions, where the payment of compensation is not mainly based on separate applications such as those currently in place. Here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u65	Mr President! I was thinking of focusing on the main issues of humanitarian immigration and humanitarian immigration in my own speech. I have wondered year after year how Finnish decision-makers do not seem to understand the fact that these current integration measures do not work. Modern integration, where the newcomer has almost no responsibility for his own integration, and on the other hand we Finns are being pressured to adapt to the customs and cultures of new arrivals, is in principle completely wrong. We all know that the failure of immigrants to integrate causes major social problems that are commonplace in Western Europe: Cars are on fire. In schools, the quality of education and the learning outcomes of children are deteriorating. The suburbs are becoming uninhabitable. Ordinary people, especially women and children, are afraid to go out at night. The unemployment rate of certain groups of immigrants is many times higher than that of the native population, resulting in a deterioration in the economic dependency ratio and so on. This is the real reality of humanitarian immigration. Mr President! Perhaps my main concern in this legislative reform is that the cross-sectoral nature of integration measures cannot be implemented but that similar activities take place at various levels, when the responsibility for integration is included in both the regions and the municipalities. The costs will increase further and the government-led support for the organisers will not be sufficient. In such cases, municipalities, for example, need to direct their other funds towards integration. It is important to understand that money spent on humanitarian migration and integration is out of all other public sector tasks and public services. Mr President! Generally speaking, I cannot understand how decision-makers in Finland have such a naive attitude towards the success of the integration of people who have arrived on humanitarian grounds. How do the decision-makers in Finland still believe that we can succeed in Finland where all the other Western European countries have failed so far without exception?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u68	Mr President! This is an important law, and we must take this matter seriously. As stated in this government proposal, segregation has, as a rule, increased in European countries and is indeed a worrying development, and that is why this government proposal is in order. Let me raise a few things. Firstly, in the budget debate, this neighbourhood police activity, preventive work, was provided with appropriations. That's where the money's going. For example, Varissuo, where there is the most dense part of the population with a migrant background, has achieved good results. It is worth looking at what has been achieved there: preventive action, close-up action and action to face face-to-face. The importance of culture and physical activity should always be emphasised. They are factors in which different groups of the population are able to work together in a natural way, and it removes the thresholds and pressures that might otherwise easily arise. If children and young people are taken, what better way and place to learn Finnish culture and Finnish or Swedish than sports or cultural activities? There are a number of examples of how many people have been most integrated in football, for example. I would like to mention this as an example. I am particularly concerned about the groups of immigrants, particularly women who are left behind or perhaps left behind because of their choice or perhaps because of pressure on them to live at home. They have the biggest threshold for learning the language, and what is listed here, where you can get involved, whether it is free civilised or not, it is worth taking forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u69	Mr President! Indeed, the fundamental change in this bill is that the province will be responsible for the integration of immigrants in the future. The responsibility for planning, developing and monitoring the integration of immigrants will be transferred to the region. The region coordinates integration planning with the municipalities of its region. After all, the objectives of the proposal are generally to be welcomed: speeding up educational and employment paths in different municipalities, faster access for beneficiaries of international protection to the services needed, more effective cross-sectoral cooperation between families, children and young people, better use of the skills of immigrants, for example in economic policy, and, of course, improving the effectiveness and effectiveness of integration services. As the Minister said, the integration services provided for in the Act on Integration, such as the initial assessment, the integration plan and integration training, remain content-related as they are today. The municipality will continue to be a key player in integration and the present proposal does not alter the general obligation of the municipality to be responsible for the planning and development of services promoting the integration of immigrant residents at local level. One of the objectives of the reform of growth services, as we also noticed from the previous debate, is, of course, to shift the current tasks of the authorities to some extent to be produced on the private market. The provision of integration services on the market or, for example, on a wider scale with the third sector — the third sector already produces a large number of integration services — will hopefully also be able to develop new ways of producing integration services and promote people's integration in general. However, the importance of monitoring the effectiveness and quality of services and procurement will be emphasised. There have been situations in Finland in the past that integration services have been of very different quality and have been offered in very different places, and it would certainly be in everyone's interest to ensure a high quality of services. As the Act on Integration provides, as is currently the case, a mere framework for action, the principles on how to provide integration services in the region will in future be very much defined by the provinces, and here I stress the importance of monitoring. In this case, services and different operating models can be generated, for example, on the basis of the local characteristics of the province or the economic structure. And since municipalities also decide for themselves how municipal services take into account the promotion of integration and how municipalities organise services for immigrants outside the labour market, it is also worthwhile paying attention to this. However, due to the cross-administrative nature of integration, the assessment of the social impact of the proposals also presents challenges and clear risks. The effectiveness of integration policy and legislation is currently dependent on cooperation and action in a wide range of administrative sectors. In a certain way, there should be the booth to be taken in order to ensure that the services are organised in the best possible way. I would also like to emphasise, Mr President, the evaluation of the gender and gender impact of the proposal, for example. Immigrant women, as Mr Kiuru also said, move to Finland more often because of family reasons and care for children at home more often than men, which increases their risk of being excluded from integration services due to the lack of services suitable for the situation in life and the fact that Finnish society is alienated. For example, the Finnish Human Rights Association stresses the gender perspective in its opinion: ‘Integration measures should aim at equal opportunities for both men and women. It is important that those who have not come to the country through international protection also receive an integration plan. For example, some women who have come to Finland with marriage are currently excluded from social and social networks, especially if the spouse is controlling, for example. In addition to the impact on gender equality, it would also be important to ensure that vulnerable immigrants in particular, such as women who have experienced violence, are actively and decisively directed towards measures and services that strengthen their participation in society. This requires additional training for the authorities to identify specific forms of violence, such as honour-related violence." Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that unaccompanied minors are still a question of their own. According to the Act on Integration, minors may remain subject to support measures until they are 21 years old or until their guardian arrives in Finland. Children and young people who have come without a guardian may be supported during the period of independence by services comparable to after-care. The provision of after-care is currently voluntary for municipalities, and in practice access to services has not always been sufficient. This is something to be addressed, because the right service in the right place prevents exclusion and, consequently, many social problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u70	Mr President! Before I came here to Parliament in 2011, I have worked with this target group now under discussion for 12 years, and against that background I thought I might point out a few points. Perhaps the most important thing is the need for different levels of integration. So the problem in the past has been that people from very different backgrounds have been placed in the same class, in the same groups, and this has not led to a good outcome with anyone at all. Representative Immonen mentioned a few groups of people who do not integrate, no matter how much money they make. It is good that they are on these integration courses — at least they are out of all other evildoing — but at the same time some of the people who would benefit from this integration course are frustrated. In other words, my solution to this, which I thought I should also point out in committee work, would be such different levels of integration, i.e. for different groups. Then another point that I drew attention to in this government proposal: this was about maintaining good demographic relations. This is an extremely important point. Now that these integration measures are being developed and developed, care must be taken to ensure that the excluded and disadvantaged people of our people must not at any time come to the impression that those who have come from elsewhere are now getting more and more easily something that might belong to them, and that money is being put into this activity and now taken away from them, and that they have the active model and other bullying of all the world. So you can't have that kind of image. If this can be avoided, this kind of image is created, then these demographic relationships can be kept in good shape. The third point I would like to raise is what the Minister said here: that even with this new integration law, integration will not affect asylum seekers. Even under the old law, this has not been the case, but in practice it has been the case that asylum seekers have been integrated, even though it has perhaps been obvious that a conversion decision will come. I believe that this is a total waste of money and resources. It should be pointed out that these integration measures, if they are to be implemented now, are only for immigrants who have a residence permit. For those who are asylum seekers and are waiting for that decision is ok, it is good that there is something meaningful to do there, but investing resources on these types like studying Finnish and this kind of thing for people who are still being turned away from the country is pointless.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u71	Mr President! That is where Minister Lindström said very clearly a very important thing about this proposal, that is, of course, the integration law itself does not change, its content does not change. It is a question of a rather technical change in the area of regional and social reform, let me say, that is, of course, as natural as I find it, the municipalities, in cooperation with the province, deal with this integration. With regard to planning and many other issues concerning regional reform, services can then be obtained from different service providers. It is also important that we take account of the impact of decisions on different groups of immigrants, because it is certainly statistically true that there are different needs in different groups, different situations in terms of employment and many other issues. This can also be well taken into account. It is also important, of course, that immigrant organisations, for example, are involved in this work in the provincial world, because otherwise these groups will probably not be able to integrate and engage in Finnish society unless their own actors are directly involved in this integration work. This speech by Mr Immonen was, in itself, of a great deal of truth. There are different challenges that have been associated with integration in Europe. We can see it from different countries, it cannot be denied, but I was surprised by it in this speech that, on the one hand, it is said that we are in great danger that integration will fail and that it will happen as in Sweden, for example, allegedly, car burning, the suburbs will burn — I think this was a figure of speech that was used — but in the following sentences it is said that we are sure, we did whatever, doomed to failure in integration, it cannot succeed. So they're putting their hands in the air at this point. The blue people are not ready for this, but we are trying to integrate, not raise their hands, because I think this is precisely the odd starting point, that on the one hand we are criticising not being integrated, but then the next sentence says that we do not even want to try, this is already a failure. In other words, integration must be based on the fact that everyone who legally stays in Finland and wants to live, live, try, pay taxes and respect Finnish legislation and culture is made Finnish. After all, this has traditionally been the idea in the large countries of immigration to keep certain of their own customs, but at the same time to respect the culture of power, the law and the identity of the country. This is, in my view, the conservative line of blue policy that has worked in many other countries. It is true that the arrival must, of course, adapt to Finnish practices. For example, we cannot allow parallel legal systems in some countries — sharia law must of course be mentioned here — but we must respect the law of that country, play with the same rules as other Finns. Of course, an immigrant must have the main responsibility for integration, but I consider it a special idea that there is no way that the surrounding society is involved. We're gonna need that, too. At the same time, we need to speak directly about the problem of integration in most European countries, namely Islamic extremism. It must be possible to prevent radicalism in these particular suburbs. This has been the main challenge of creating people or groups of people, for example, from young men who do not seem to have plans for the future, hopes for the future: either they may turn to criminal gangs or, for example, recruiters of extremist groups like these take them in and offer them a future through it. This is something that we must, of course, address, and blue people also believe that, for example, foreign funding for mosque projects is extremely problematic in this regard, because it is the case that religion is generally used as a pretext for a world view that is unlikely to contribute to that integration. Another important issue is the entrepreneurship of immigrants. A great many immigrants in all countries, where there is even high employment among immigrants, work is related to entrepreneurship. In particular, it would be worthwhile to involve those self-employed people with an immigrant background who would then be able to take on new entrants and, through their own example, to bring new entrants to its good results. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say one example about integration. This government is launching a study, which is also this realism without racism, which means that it is an anonymous job search. Let's see if the employer can use it if he wants to. I'm sure you'll just look at the qualifications, not the background. And when I asked one of the taxi drivers who had a foreign background, he said that it would be the best way to promote the employment of people with an immigrant background, because unfortunately his experience was that if the name Faisal and not Jari-Pekka, it was more difficult to get a job even if he was equally qualified or even more qualified. These are the questions we must be able to resolve realistically without racism and with a conservative line of our blue lines, which seems to differ from both the Finns and the Greens. Let's see if it's different than the others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u72	Mr President! Why are there no integration problems in Japan? Why are there no integration challenges in Hungary? This is because they have not taken mass humanitarian immigration into their own country. If the Finns of Finland had been able to formulate a Finnish immigration policy from the outset, it would have prevented these integration problems. If you don't want to live in the Middle East or Africa, then don't move the mass population here. We must now make a policy of drastically reducing the level of humanitarian immigration. The Finns of Peru want to stop humanitarian immigration. As far as integration is concerned, Mr Elo, this lacks the courage and the courage. How does this now differ from Swedish integration methods? Not in any way. On the contrary, Sweden has a somewhat stricter asylum policy, at least. There is blackmail, because the Swedish Democrats have managed to put pressure on other parties, that they too will have to come to the right conclusion. There's no balls in this. [Simon Elon interlude] For example, on page 49 this is mentioned that immigrants are not a heterogeneous group. That's absolutely true. The challenges are therefore part of humanitarian immigration. We are talking about immigrant women facing domestic and intimate violence. It is good that we see what challenges and problems we are facing. But there are no solutions to anything. How is this different from previous integration policies? Not in any way. You yourself said that this was just a technical amendment of the law that moved missions...
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u75	Mr President! That is all, of course, the same as Mr Huhtasaari's earlier speech, so that nothing is surprising, but I did not hear the specific solutions. The only solution I really heard was to put an end to humanitarian immigration. But what is the solution, what is done, for example, to people who are already here, many of whom are Finnish citizens, whose children may have been born in Finland, but who happen to be from a foreign background, which I understand you do not think many people can integrate here, but integration is absolutely doomed to fail? What are they gonna do with them? Do you have the nerve or not to answer this question the way I suspect it? What is your view of that? You don't tell me exactly what you want. The only thing you will tell us is to stop humanitarian immigration, but what about the Finns and those who have acquired Finnish citizenship who are already living here among us? Blues want to integrate. What do you want?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u76	I just said that for example: Switzerland has the nerve to insist on living in the country the way it does. There, for example, the process of citizenship will be interrupted and then sanctions will be imposed if you do not live in a country like that. There you have to shake hands with female teachers because it's a part of a Swiss culture. Yes, these burkas are banned there and in many other countries, for example. In other words, there must be the courage to demand that immigrants live in the country the way they do and to stop this multicultural integration, which maintains their own culture and thus prevents them from adapting to Finnish culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u77	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u78	Mr President! There will therefore also be changes to integration services in the context of this regional reform, and I myself am a little concerned as to whether integration services can come to some of the same problem as those in the context of the breeding service reform, i.e. I am concerned that the province will not necessarily direct state funding towards integration, but will then return to social services and may end up in a situation where there are very different levels of services in different regions, which are resourced in different ways. So this is what I'd like to ask the Minister. Another essential issue and problem with the integration system is that initial surveys and integration plans are regularly made for unemployed job seekers and beneficiaries of international protection, but for other groups it is more discretionary, i.e. workers outside the labour market, such as domestic mothers, spouses of workers, may be excluded from integration. I would like to ask the Minister whether the reform of this law could change and extend these initial surveys and integration plans to all these groups of people as a rule. In particular, these women from immigrant backgrounds are an essential group. They should be provided with tailor-made services and be covered so that they are not excluded from integration and thus from society. As regards social integration, it would also be essential for work-related immigrants, working migrants, to be able, for example, to undergo language training alongside work and thus to be better integrated into society and also to ensure better opportunities for further employment. Mr President! The role of communities and organisations in integration is also an essential issue. It is very important, because relationships are what binds people to society in the end, and often in different community activities and organizations work becomes that human encounter and thus friendships, friendships, different relationships, and thereby commitment and integration into society. So the question is how, within the framework of the integration system and within the public sector, we could support and encourage the very valuable integration work carried out by the third sector to a greater extent. Mr President! On the basis of international protection, approximately one-tenth of residence permits are granted, i.e. it is definitely a minority, but it is an essential issue. There has also been talk in this Chamber of humanitarian immigration and their integration. Personally, I would see that the teaching of working life and working life cooperation should already be in reception centres, as this process of asylum is a very long-term, too long-term process. Of course, it would have to be speeded up, it would be in everyone's interest, but since it takes time and there can be a long time at the reception centre, it would be good if integration measures were already in place there, and also work life education and working life contacts were created already at the reception stage, so that, in particular for those who remain in the country, integration would not start at zero then, when the residence permit is issued, but would be on the integration path even further away. Mr President! Racism, prejudice and discrimination are a major obstacle to integration and access to employment. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how we could systematically reduce discrimination against immigrants in recruitment. It has been found that anonymous job search would be one way to do so. That sounds like a good plan, and I would like to ask the Minister how to proceed in practice with this and how to move forward and expand it. It would be an essential question at a time when there is a shortage of labour in various sectors and regions and perhaps even more in the future that this discrimination in recruitment would actually decrease, that employers would gain employment and then that immigrants in the country would find jobs and reach society. But it must be said that this reduction in discrimination in recruitment and in society as a whole will not, of course, make it easier if threats and prejudices are fomented in this Chamber and at the highest level of decision-making, that is to say, it would also be necessary to set an example for society as to how to speak respectfully about other people. Integration presents challenges, and failure has also been seen, but it is racist and prejudiced to say that some groups of people would not be integrated and thus welcome to Finland. Racism is that a person is encountered and stamped, not as an individual, but as a representative of his ethnicity, i.e. a person is already prejudiced on the basis of his ethnicity, culture, appearance, skin color, and thus denied their individuality. So everyone can wonder if this is going to happen in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u79	Mr President! After all, racism refers to ethnic discrimination, in which different human races are placed in values hierarchys, and this is a line that we Finns, for example, do not sign under any circumstances. But with regard to this anonymous job search mentioned above, this has been widely tried in Europe, and in France, for example, this anonymous job search weakened the employment of immigrants because it deprived employers of the opportunity to favour immigrants consciously or unconsciously. This has been tried across Europe and the results are such that it has no impact on the employment of immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u80	In fact, this anonymous job search took me on too. The way in which the employment of people with a migrant background can also be promoted in general is an extremely important issue in this time period, and we know that the challenges of employment for these people can be and are even more difficult for the general population. But such an observation about this anonymous job search, just from that practical life and practical work, is that it can contribute to the progress of people with immigrant background in these recry processes, but often the Achilles heel and stumbling block comes at the time of the actual interview. So, I'm sure it's worth considering how to use it, but if you're not good with your language skills, or
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u82	Mr President! Somehow I feel that I am going to repeat what I have just said, because this is also about delegation, the construction of the provincial administration and because problems or pain spots seem a little similar. In other words, the question has already been raised here about the adequacy of funding in the future: when there is a universal budget in the province, how much is transferred or allocated to integration services in addition to social services and other employment services, transport and other tasks? It may be that in all provinces it is not necessarily very high-priority, and, of course, the situation in many provinces is not the same. In the same way, it is a challenge for both municipalities and regions to do health promotion or integration, so that we are faced with a situation where the division of labour is once again to be considered, and that does not really reduce red tape, but thus increase it. And thirdly, there is the same problem as that one or there is a question mark in what does it mean to put integration services on the same line in such a way that they operate partly on market terms? What's the criterion, the quality, the others? And how do you think in those provinces that these people who are in need of integration services can choose from these many different kinds of market and public services? I don't know how the ministry or minister have thought about this problem then turn around, because this is how such a presentation has been brought here. To this recent problem: when our former colleague, Susanna Huovinen, submitted a report and an analysis to the Council of Europe on how integration has been carried out in different European countries and what would be the proposal, that proposal was a one-stop shop principle. It has been a good experience in different countries. And now, with regard to this proposal, I have the fear that we will cancel in Finland, not going towards the principle of a one-stop shop, but scattering these people to different hatches and different services. Especially for people who have no knowledge of this structure in which Finnish society operates, it would be good to have one place from which all services can then be obtained. And so there is an international comparison and a report and a report has been made. Then the most important thing: the language that was already referred to here. We know from the analysis and report of this House, the Audit Committee, that there is a need to think out, because even the second generation of immigrants have less success in school because the language is poorly learned. For this reason, language learning is of paramount importance. At the same time, we know — and there have also been different ways of doing so — how important it is that the lack of language skills as a barrier to employment should be dealt with as quickly as possible, and how to learn as easily and as quickly as possible the language that can cope with working life. There has been a lot of speculation here and there is still a need for more of it. In both of these target groups, the producer of education is mainly a municipality, and at this point municipalities are in a very different position and situation, because in different municipalities language learning for different population groups and people from different language backgrounds is needed in different ways. That is why my wish is also that this should be taken more into account in the central government systems of municipalities. We have a small slice there, but we would need more investment on this side, for these children, as we know, so that the problem does not continue from one generation to the next, but also for people entering the labour market, that language training is of paramount importance. And I would like to see additional savings for the municipalities, not as it seems to be in this bill that some funding is being taken away from the municipalities. But perhaps this fits in with the same ideology that the municipalities are being deprived of both funding and the organisation of various services and want to move it elsewhere, even though it is the closest thing to human beings, even though the decision-makers who make those decisions have been making them responsibly for a hundred years. Now they are being transferred to the state administration, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u83	Mr President! These presentations are really fine and well done, and they sound good, but in reality they are different from practice like the East from the West. They have nothing to do with practice. I am talking specifically about humanitarian immigration. In the previous motion, the Minister spoke of the unemployed, that the unemployed are not employed and are being put into it and tried to do... I would have had a performance for it, but now I'm a little late. But if we now start these immigrants, which are certainly part of the goat herders, camel tamers and such, here in the Nordic conditions to integrate with these former unemployed, then it is quite clear that it will not work. responsibilities are being transferred to municipalities, provinces. We just had a story last week in the afternoon newspaper about how many of these municipalities and cities have far more male than female ones, 30 per cent. How do these men integrate? They're men who come. If she comes, she's a celebrity. It's almost there on Yle's news that now she's here. Because they're men. I went to Tornio when the immigration wave was on. Ten bus loads came from there, all men. Yle's news will be on the news when it's strange that a woman and a child walked there. I don't know where they got these. But the policy is how they integrate here. They're human beings, just like we are. They want a mate. Are we gonna give you a pump barbara or a brake or what? I can't do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u85	Mr President! With reference to this previous speech by Mr Hakkarainen: I am sure we all agree that this integration and immigration in themselves are fundamental issues in our society and how it will be achieved must also be of great importance for our future. For a long time now, I have hoped that these issues could be discussed in a somewhat substantive way, and now that we are talking about sitting as parliamentarians in this Chamber, I would personally appreciate very much that this kind of language should not be used in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u86	Representative Elomaa is next on the list of speakers. — I struck a club at the table a few times, and that was a message to Mr Hakkarais, in fact, that language that someone might feel is disparaging or questionable in the direction of another person is not allowed to be used in this Chamber. I noticed that Mr Hakkarainen had just finished his speech, but this was my intention. — If Mr Elomaa allows, we shall give Mr Hakkarainen a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u87	Thank you very much for giving me the floor, but this was not meant to offend or offend anyone in that way. That's not what I'm supposed to do. I just have my own way of talking about these things, and I'm going to tell you things very directly, in my own way. I have not been to colleges of higher education, nor have I been trained in any way to behave in Parliament. I have been in practice in life, and this language is usually used among the people. I am a representative of the people and will also use that language of the people. Thank you to the President-in-Office for your reprimand and thank you for guiding me in the next speeches if I use the wrong words.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u88	The list of speakers, Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u89	Mr President! The purpose of the law is to promote the integration of immigrants in different ways. Of course, the forthcoming regional and social reform will also have an impact on services for immigrants. The way in which municipalities, for example, will play their own role remains to be seen. I would like to say in general terms that realistic solutions must be found to the problems of immigration and soon. Firstly, Europe and Finland must control uncontrolled immigration. The current situation is not sustainable. The question that is often asked to us Finns on the basis of these turous and squares is: Why do you have the opportunity to provide funds and support immigration but not care for the elderly? This is being presented to us very often, at least. And some of the elderly in Finland are really at home, and the best of times Narinkkatori has a demonstration and cause for it. Of course, at this point, some ask how these two things can be compared in any way. I say that, if it is possible to allocate funds to integration — and it is also important, of course — money and funds must also be found for adequate, good care for our elderly. The government needs to consider whether the present type of integration is effective and effective. At least the results have not been very convincing: the employment rate of immigrants is not at the desired level, the crime statistics are long and, in some immigrant communities, gender equality is not realised, at all. Would it be possible to achieve better results if the system were more strongly directed to learn Finnish, train and work for a living? These issues should now also be considered in the context of administrative reform. In my opinion, particular efforts should be made to promote rapid employment and language learning. The position of women with an immigrant background also requires special attention. We need to get them to study and work. At present, a large proportion of immigrant women are only at home. The evaluation of the effectiveness of the Government proposal is challenging, to say the least. I hope that this reform will not, at least, make things more difficult on a practical level. Mr President! Now that Minister Lindström is here, there would be two questions for him: If you consider an immigrant who has been in Finland for decades and does not yet speak Finnish, should there be an obligation to be obliged to study it? And then the status of these immigrant women, those who are often at home for cultural reasons and who are also subordinate at home and do not really get to go, even if they have their own will, so to speak, to the public. Many of them would even like to work. In particular, what could be thought of them, Minister Lindström? Would there be an obligation for them, too, or what has the government thought? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u90	Mr President! I personally understand with integration that immigrants actually become part of the society to which they have moved. This is therefore a crucial issue for the long-term success of immigration policy. Throughout Europe, this objective has been somewhat poorly achieved, and Finland's results are not entirely flattering either. Of course, the basic problem is that the best integration is employment and access to employment, but the level of education and the capacity of the newcomers for the working life currently in Finland is unfortunately low. If the educational background and language skills do not enable a competitive position in the Finnish labour market, especially in a world where automation and robotisation are increasingly displaced by low-skilled work in our society, it does pose considerable challenges for immigrants who come from an inadequate educational environment. The second question is cultural differences. The more distant the culture becomes in Finnish society, the more difficult it can become to overcome the cultural divide, and integration can become difficult. It is important that this question should also be answered with legislative elements, but it is clear that if the number of immigration, especially immigration from culturally distant countries, which is of a low or no educational population, is too high, then no resources and legal frameworks will be able to guarantee integration, and therefore successful integration will be conditional on keeping the number of immigration limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u91	Mr President! Mr Rydman spoke here in a fair and wise manner, like a reasonable conservative, which I am sure is what he is as someone I know. Financial carrying capacity is a very important issue here. Of course, as Mr Rydman has pointed out, there must be an immigration policy that has been drawn up and managed in such a way that the economic carrying capacity is taken into account. Unfortunately, in the autumn of 2015, the situation was out of control and, of course, nothing worked in that way. One thing that should be introduced for work-based immigration and thus integration is the Canada-style scoring system. In this way, it would be possible to view as well as possible the ability of a person to find employment in Finland by means of work-based immigration. Yes, in Canada, for example, this has worked splendidly. Another important issue, of course, is our social security, which must be reformed by the next government in any case. Yes, the blue view is that it is necessary to move from housing-based social security to citizenship-based social security. It is also one way of encouraging integration and, ultimately, the acquisition of citizenship, that there is at first a slightly lower level of social security, which, of course, will then be the same as all other citizens at the time when citizenship is granted. This means, however, that a constitutional change is likely to have to be made in order to move on to this. Finally, President-in-Office, I would like to comment on the second proposal on integration, which is, of course, to verify in some way its commitment to Finland and to Finnish society. For example, Britain, the United States, Germany, many countries have had a citizenship oath, an oath of loyalty. In the view of the Blues, it would be justified in our case for the Finnish State, which, of course, together we all represent in a way — it is our Community — and then for the Finnish Constitution, which, with the greatest possible precision and acceptance of us, sets out the values and line on which this country and state and legal order are based. I believe that, when such an oath of loyalty is introduced for new citizens, it would be one way of showing new citizens the appreciation that we certainly want to show.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u92	Mr President! In fact, I asked for this intervention after Mr Elo's last speech, inspired by the fact that the conservatives in these senses came forward with this anonymous job search. Well, its representative, Mr Immonen, has already told us that this has indeed been tested in some European countries and in some regions, and it has indeed happened, as has already been said here, that it has weakened the employment of immigrants precisely because they have not been able, as it were, to favour these immigrants. But that's it. It's too bad Congressman Sarkkinen left. I would have told him that there is no racism of any kind if it were to be said that people from different countries are less integrated than those from other countries. I have found this practically on my own, and that is why my view would be that, in the future, when this integration is being carried out and laws are being passed, such levels would be defined for people from different parts of the world, as I have just said, or if you do not want to put this directly geographically, even if you measure it at the beginning then. Well, then you could see the kind of people in which classes would sit. In any case, different levels of training are needed so that those who are already more advanced in integration, who come here, do not have to sit in these categories, where the teacher’s time in practice goes merely to shepherding. In this speech, Mrs Elomaa was surprised that ten years may have been here and still have not learned Finnish. Here is one thing I would like to see invested in. This is because there is no legal definition of how long this interpretation will take. In other words, a person who has come to Finland on humanitarian grounds may receive, for example, 20 years of its interpretation if he feels he needs it, even if such other immigration funds, what municipalities have been replaced — well, in the future to the provinces — will then end in four years or three years depending on whether he has been a quota refugee or an asylum seeker. But this right of interpretation will remain for so long, and I think this is one of the things that even prevents these people from studying and learning the language when one can always count on the interpreter to come. Now this is being transferred from municipalities to provinces and the state is being funded to the provinces, and so on. This may be a good thing, but what comes forward here, at least, is that in the future, as part of these provinces, even those municipalities that have not taken humanitarian immigration will be forced to pay, as it were, to save the municipalities that have been engaged in this humanitarian immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u93	Mr President! A few French lines of this bill itself and then perhaps a little more broadly. But first of all it must be said that Mr Rydman's speech was wise in many ways, as he did in general. Firstly, with regard to this draft law, it must be said that the proposal is, of course, well-founded. Long-term integration policy is essential. We must seek as broad a consensus as possible between political decision-makers, public authorities, social partners, NGOs, the church and other actors in society at national level on this comprehensive integration. Of course, the success of integration also requires practical cooperation at regional and local level, which this bill also provides for. It is clear that asylum seekers need to get to work or to do other things as quickly as possible. Being idle alone can lead to many problems, including crime in practice. After all, immigration is directed to Finland as refugees, but also as specialist experts, workers, students and within the framework of the free movement of the EU, each of which has its own legislation. As we all know, refugeeism is a global problem. It can only be resolved through international cooperation. It also requires all countries to comply with the agreements concluded jointly. Europe and Finland need means and channels for the orderly arrival of immigrants. It requires a pan-European asylum policy and asylum system, a system capable of helping people in need, a system that is not congested and that can help the weakest. People who are genuinely in need, especially women and children, must be helped. Efforts must be made to help them as close as possible to the countries of origin. On the other hand, it is not just those seeking a better standard of living who are seeking to be admitted to Finland as asylum seekers. They can come to our country in accordance with the rules on work-related immigration if the conditions for entry are in order. But it is also a fact that Finland needs immigration, particularly strongly work-related immigration and, of course, a highly functional integration system. In this context, I would also like to emphasise specifically the issue of controlled immigration. Uncontrollable immigration, entry, is likely to undermine people's sense of security, and this also involves the fact - and I would like to stress this - that in Finland, everyone must comply with the laws in force and the decisions taken by the authorities, whether they are immigrants or Finns themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u96	Mr President! This bill under discussion is indeed linked to a very controversial regional reform and is, of course, very technical in substance. Regrettably, it does not provide any solutions to this real problem, namely the very low price-quality ratio of integration measures. The annual cost of integration is at least hundreds of millions of euros, and the subject is very important for central government finances. The expenditure item is growing and should be discussed here in Parliament in a very comprehensive manner. In most cases, success in integration activities depends primarily on the integrationist’s own motivation, whether he accepts and wants to embrace the culture and customs of his new country of residence. Mr President! Among other things, this proposal has stated that ‘early education appears to benefit especially the children of immigrant families. “ I'm sure that's the case. I won't deny it. But now the government is planning, among other things, a two-year compulsory pre-school education that would extend to the entire age group of 5 and 6-year-olds. We, the True Finns, regard this presentation, which is likely to be coming from the government as a completely oversized measure, and this is just one example of what all these integration measures will ultimately affect. Mr President! It is impossible to overemphasise this importance of ownership and initiative in integration, and for example the demand for language skills referred to above by Mr Eerolak. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Mr Rydman for the proper and good speech he has made. He has already left the Chamber, but I would have said to him that, since you seem to be on a slightly different line with the leadership of your party on these immigration policy issues, if you ever get into a serious conflict within the Coalition Party, I believe that you would find asylum, for example, from the Finns of Peru without very extensive integration measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u97	Mr President! I welcome the fact that Mr. Savio and the Finns of Peru are ready to grant safe havens. This is what we heard. Mr Eerola pointed out that if anonymous job search were to be introduced, in other countries it meant that the employer would not be able to favour immigrant applicants, so to speak. This may be the case, but then I have the question that, well, don't the Finns pay for this performance, because at least you can't favour immigrants, but they're all on the same page. That's exactly what we blue people think. On the other hand, I think that discrimination is never positive, so I myself have great reservations about what is known as positive discrimination. When you put everything on the same line and the same responsibilities and responsibilities and opportunities, then the situation is good. On the other hand, Mr Elomaa here quite rightly highlighted the importance of language training, for example. That is an important point, and of this Mr Eerola also hoped that it would be invested in. However, I have to say that there is now quite a contradiction in my view: Mr Immonen's speeches made it quite clear that all integration measures, to which language training is traditionally calculated, are totally doomed to failure. In other words, you seem to have two lines now: either we want to invest or we do not want to invest at all. I would like to call for what the party's line is. The view of the Blues is that the borders must not be opened up and closed, but that the borders must be maintained — controlled immigration, a line that this government has now managed to draw in the last two years. Last year there were only less than 2,000 new asylum applications. Compared to the out-of-control situation in 2015 — 32,000 applications — the line has clearly worked and this type of line should be continued. We need both borders and love, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u98	Madam President! Climate change is an issue that has been particularly high on the agenda lately and, of course, these immigration issues. These two issues are closely linked. You should be interested in climate change if you are interested in immigration and migratory pressures. In order for these magnitudes to remain in some way perceptible, let me give you one example. Africa currently has a population of 1.3 billion. According to the UN's most pessimistic estimate, the population of Africa in 2100 will be 4.8 billion. The population increase alone by the end of the century is 3.5 billion. What does that mean? When compared with the population of Europe, it means five European population or, correspondingly, 600 Finnish population. Or if I relate it to Pirkanmaa and Tampere, it means about 15,000. A unit the size of Tampere, which should be located in Africa as a result of this population growth. Everyone knows that it is impossible, everyone knows the direction in which the migratory pressure is directed, and these are the reasons why climate change must be discussed. You have to take it really hard. The fact that we are discussing whether our immigration quota is 750 or 1200 is totally irrelevant to the whole. From an individual's point of view, of course, who, in bingo, as it were, hits the right to immigration into Europe, that is, of course, the crucial thing, but from the point of view of the whole, it is completely meaningless.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u99	Mr President! We Vice-Presidents here rarely take the floor, although in principle we are entitled to do so. I listened to this debate for 1.5 hours and, as a result of that good and interesting debate, I really just want to reflect out loud in front of everyone on what Mr Kiuru was thinking a little bit from a different perspective from where I am going — but basically the same thing. Is the refugee issue such a thing and will it remain something far away from Africa or far away from Asia and so away, or can it one day face us and touch us a little more concrete than it did two or three years ago? There is no reason to speculate that this could and could happen, but when such a situation was not in the very distant history, I would like to say this to all of us. I was a minister in Finland for four years at the time, and I was in charge of foreign policy on August 21st and 22nd, when next door — even after the first day of Helsinki Sanomat wrote — was an obvious threat of revolution when Janayev and his associates did what they did — I will not interfere. We then had to think about what could become of this, we had to be prepared for different situations, and it has to be encouraged to say that, at that time, one of the things we had to prepare for was that if something really big happens, it may be that there is not a small number of refugees, but a large number of refugees, going to Finland. How did we then think that this question would be dealt with? Is it that those who are a little further away from Finland, Sweden, Germany, France and Italy and so on in the rest of Europe do not have to bear any responsibility for everything that could happen, but that we take care of the hundreds of thousands or millions of people who, at worst, can come here? That's not what we thought. We thought that Europe and the world share the responsibility together if something really bad happened. That is what we thought — and I am not speculating at all that this could not happen in the future, but the world is a special community, and you never know what is going on there. This is the thought of running into that situation without even interfering with my role at all in this context, because of the content of its integration policy. But we must be prepared to have an integration policy. We don't live alone in the rest of the world. We are part of a wide-ranging world community, whether it be climate issues or various coups or revolutions and similars.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u100	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank the whole Chamber for the fine debate that has taken place here today. This is a good example of how things can be discussed, where they can be divided. The conversation is rich. In my view, integration is somehow pointless or will fail. Of course, I believe that immigrants already present in Finland must be integrated into Finnish society or repatriated to their country of origin if they do not want to become integrated into Finland. But I believe that if the volume of immigration remains at present or continues to grow, then the resources of small Finland will simply not be sufficient for integration measures. Now that there is still a minister here from the government, I would like to ask you whether you are going to make any legislative reforms or other measures in the course of the rest of the year that Finland will avoid getting on the road to Sweden or on the road to Germany or on the road to France, and we will avoid this immigration disaster.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u101	Mr President! Finland is an open society, and we have come to this conclusion for practical reasons because we are a small country. We need buyers around us and we need goods and communication with foreigners. There is no way in which Finland can escape world pain, and we must take part in this community in such a way that we will then be accepted on the basis of these values in the Western community where we trade with other countries. That is why this type of immigration, which is based on the fact that we are fleeing the pain in the source country, cannot be categorically denied in Finland. It would certainly change the Finnish Constitution in the wrong way. A year ago in a large committee there was a Commissioner for Refugees, a Cypriot — I don't remember his name, he had a hard name to say to others, that I don't remember any of his names — and he predicted the same kind of thinking as Mr Kiuru here told. I must say that it may not be possible for everyone to know the picture that is being spoken here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u102	Madam President! We in the Finns Party have no anti-immigrantism in this. We have once inhabited the Karelians, 400,000 people, in this country, and it has been quite successful when there have been no cultural conflicts and such. That's where the problems come from if we start to colonize this country... As I have just mentioned, the majority, 80%, are men of these people, and we already have a problem in the provinces with the fact that there are more men than women. That integration process, this has to be... There will be collisions, there will be nothing to do about it, its practice will show you. You gotta be able to talk straight about things without that racist card. And if you get hurt a little bit, I'll apologize for my language if it's such that it doesn't fit in with this house. But I'm incomplete from these parts. Now about this climate change we're talking about. We have eight of the world’s largest polluting rivers, which produce 90% of the world’s plastics, including the oceans. That's a problem you should go to the source to see and not get started here. We get to jump so high and pat on a hairless chest that it washes here, but the world's situation doesn't change. And if we are examples, let us be examples, but let us also be examples of immigration, so that they are put in such a position that there will be no problems in Sweden and France and Central Europe and elsewhere. Let's not have any trouble here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u103	Mr President! It remains to be seen whether the blues will win the election when they keep what the people have promised, or 100,000 jobs. But it'll be later. Mr Kiuru raised this issue of migratory pressure in Europe. That spring I took a very valuable course, an important course, a national defence course, and there too the high Finnish experts brought this message, so we will not get anywhere — no matter what the question is — that this is one of the key issues for Europe that we must be able to solve. When reference was made even to Karelian evacs, yes, one person who inhabited them, or Veikko Vennamo, must be brought up.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u106	Mr President! Here's a good show below. It is the development of integration that we need in Finland. Our volumes are by no means the same as they have been in Sweden at the moment or in history. We are now dealing with this type of immigration, which is what we currently have. Of course, the situation must be taken into account what will be in the future, and that is another matter to be prepared for. But I would like the Finns of Finland to say straight away whether the ban on humanitarian immigration is the whole thing they advocate, whether that is what you want, or whether it is such lirumium, as has just been said here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u107	Madam President! A direct answer to the question, that is how we have outlined it. This is in line with our programme. [EeroSuutari’s interlude] I went to Japan a year ago in the fall. There I was very familiar with its immigration policy. There's practically no one there. That too has not been removed from the Western community of values. Or Australia.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u108	I would ask the representatives to note that the policy of reply is not in place. I would ask you to reserve the usual speeches if you wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u109	Mr President! Eerola answered Suutari quite well. But what can Europeans do with this money, what does Europe have to do with this problem, which in that way will remain an eternal problem? Let us make a decision to put the education system in North Africa and set up a village there — for there is enough money to do this — and the health care and women in particular will be trained there, everything will be in order, and the peacekeepers will be there to keep order and not all over the world to tramp on every village in the hotspots. The Peacekeepers will have good experience there, and they will be able to keep order. Women are not raped or children when they keep order there, nor are men — now that too is normal there. If these resources are put there, we will certainly be able to build a society, a city, anything with this money, and that problem will then remain beyond that sea and it will be all right.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u110	Mr President! Finland is the most dependent country on foreign trade, and this is because we need other countries and relations with them. Here we compared Finland to countries that do more on their own as Finland manages with its expertise and then cooperates with others.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u111	Had Mr Mäkinen asked to speak? I'm asking you to press the button. — Representative Immonen first.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u112	Mr President! I would like to say here to Mr Suutari that free trade and international trade have nothing to do with humanitarian immigration. Japan is not engaged in humanitarian immigration, but it is engaged in a great deal of international trade.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u115	I will now give Mr Lindström a reply. Is that enough for five minutes? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for a good conversation. That's very interesting, and it's a pretty large scale we've been through. This began with a proper speech by Mr Immonen himself. A few quotes. I fully agree with it, and in every single speech and debate I have always made sure that the text comes in: ‘Integration is primarily a matter of personal responsibility. “ That is the starting point, and that is quite clear. There were excellent speeches here. Mr Eerola, it is not racism to say that integration has not been successful in various ethnic groups. No, it's not, and that's also been said out loud. We must have an integration policy, as Vice-President Pekkarinen said in his own speech. If these start, we will come to what integration policy was before 2015 and what it is now. It is far too early for us to assess the results we have achieved, but it has been said out loud and I have said many times that it has not been achieved. And so it is that in different ethnic groups, when they are recorded, it is a fact that the level of employment — which is some sort of measure on which these things are measured — is at different levels, and I personally see that integration and employment go hand in hand. If the employment rate there is not even at the level where it is in the Finnish language, then we have not succeeded. There is no point in looking in one direction, but it is a twofold one, and that is exactly where it comes from, that if the state makes decisions, lines up some things, that this is the way and that is the way it is going to be done, then we expect it to be integrated itself and those groups to be involved in it and against half-way and above. And that is what we have said to these groups when we have arranged various debates in a way to awaken that, hey, you too need to do things better. I do not think that there is any racist or problem here, but that there is a problem: we have a problem — what should be done about this so that we can move forward on this issue. Mr Elomaa said in his speech that rapid employment, language learning, should be promoted. — I couldn't agree more. Since 2015, we have made training and employment paths for immigrants, and extensive structural reform work has been carried out together with OKM. These things just don't happen in a minute. The systems have been reformed to become more work-oriented, new opportunities have been created to acquire basic skills, professional competence, work experience. As I said, the impact of these reforms is still difficult to assess for the time being, it is far too early, but I think this is the direction in which it should be taken. Work must be made closer to integration. The aim of all services and training is to support flexible pathways to work. It can't be that this is going to take years. The issue of women's integration was raised here, and this is something we have also told these immigrant groups that hey, it is not right if people have been in this country for 20 years and do not speak Finnish. Then someone's gone wrong. That, too, must be said out loud. Now that we have talked about what we dare to say, yes, I have dared to say this out loud and have acknowledged that this has failed. We should not be afraid to say that we need to make this better. Women are involved in integration. I would argue that those results are beginning to improve in a different way than they have been so far. It involves these good demographic relationships, the fact that immigrants have exactly the same job-seeking obligations as the Finns in Finland. Everything we create... Among other things, this so-called SIB model, this kind of impact investment, was originally an integration tool for immigrants. It is now being extended to the long-term unemployed. This is what I mean by that if we make some decisions they must sit down for everyone, and there cannot be some bypass paths for some. And here's one thing that makes the difference. It's the language training. Here, too, we have tried to take it in the direction that we do not plant people in a class, but we do it in a work-oriented way. That is the way to get these demographic relations, hopefully, and these mamu organisations involved in this. The question is whether or not to integrate: As the minister responsible for this, I say it is worth a try. Although the results have not been good, it is not worth giving up, but we must invest in this, but we must do this courageously and also say the flaws that are involved. The OECD report on this issue will be published tomorrow. We have ordered it ourselves, and it will then be consulted on the OECD's comments on Finnish integration policy. That report ends in 15. A lot of different measures have been taken since then, and I believe that there will also be incentives for what Finland should do better.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u117	Madam Chairman! We have heard a lot of speeches here and we have had quite a mixed debate on this important theme. It is certainly agreed that the general objective of integration is, above all, to facilitate access for these people from immigrant backgrounds and, above all, to give them the right to participate in our society. This is where employment and access to the labour market play a crucial role. The importance of language learning has also been highlighted very strongly here and, for example, in terms of employment, it is one of the most important prerequisites. We have certainly had different problems in this area in the past, and one has, among other things, been linked to this integration legislation and its language teaching. It has been very limited and often of a totally inadequate duration in relation to the need that people of immigrant origin often have. But we know that language is not only learned by fuelling grammar but also learned in social interaction and interaction with people. It is precisely through the work community, through work and, above all, through discussion, and I would say at this stage that we in the People's Republic of Finland are the key in the way in which we give immigrants the opportunity to participate. Yes, it is up to us, for our part, to try to make contact and encourage cooperation and, above all, to open up our own social networks to those from immigrant backgrounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u118	Madam President! I would like to thank the Minister for his wise speech, because I can imagine that, when the Minister of Labour is really also responsible for integration issues, in some civic circles, the fact that you are in charge of those questions and indeed you are in charge of them, that is to say, you are talking about them and bringing solutions, not always giving thanks, but something else. However, the policy of both the government and the blue is that we should not throw the gloves on these issues, even though the truth is that the results of integration at European level have not been as they should be. We still need to continue the work, but certainly on a new basis in a certain way. This is, of course, influenced by politics, by what parties are now in government and by the way things look at the world picture. This conservative line of the Blues is precisely that everyone who legally stays here and wants to live, live and try in Finland must make Finns. That is what it has done in the United States, in a country which, in my view, has been very successful in this matter. Today there is a very uncomplicated attitude to immigration. They're all made Americans. It is, in a way, a matter of honour both for the society and for the people who come from America, but they can also keep certain aspects of their own culture that relate to the countries from which they come. This same practice will work in Finland too, if it is done in a sensible way, so that both of us will have to meet, and of course the main responsibility for integration must rest with the person who comes to Finland. This, too, is, of course, a question for blue people about the world’s image. Whether a native Finn or an immigrant, everyone is primarily a blacksmith of their own luck, and then a blacksmith can be helped and supported if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u119	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. Minister Lindström, presentation no more than 10 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u120	Mr President! Let's be brief. The purpose of this proposal is to make changes to the law on privacy in working life as a result of the EU Data Protection Regulation, the repeal of the Personal Data Act and the amendment of the Criminal Code. It is important to maintain the Data Protection Act in the workplace, although the Data Protection Regulation is also applicable in the workplace. The provisions of the law also protect the employee's privacy more widely. These provisions have coordinated the protection of the employee’s privacy and personal data and the employer’s need for information. These provisions also safeguard the confidentiality of other fundamental rights, such as communications. One of Finland's priorities in the negotiations on the Data Protection Regulation was to obtain entries in the Regulation that enable the retention of the Labour Code. The Regulation contains a specific article approving the data protection regulation of working life. It is therefore considered that it is possible to retain the law already in force mainly as it stands. The relationship between this law and the Data Protection Regulation has also been assessed and the law has not been found to have any material change needs arising from the Data Protection Regulation. The need for changes resulting from the Data Protection Regulation and changes to national data protection regulations is limited and related to the details of the law. Most of the proposed changes are mainly of a more precise and technical nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u121	Mr President! This is indeed the government's proposal to amend the law on the protection of privacy in working life and the law on the criminal record of those working with children. Although this is a necessary proposal in itself, this proposal is, however, largely a technical change, as the Minister said above and also states in the proposal. However, there would be a need for more than just a technical check on the law on the criminal record of those working with children in particular. Since 2003, people working with children and young people have been required to present a criminal record extract to the employer. This extract includes possible crimes against children, as well as sexual, violent and narcotic crimes. This law is important and correct, but unfortunately, in its current form, it does not make it possible to require a criminal record extract in those employment relationships that last for a maximum of three months during the year. This fact has surprised many parents and has also aroused a great deal of public debate during the summer. Furthermore, according to public information, some of the day care centres in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area are being searched for replacements even in the area of less than a week of induction. In my opinion, such a totally inadequate introduction, combined with the lack of a criminal record in short-term employment relationships that I have just mentioned, has been a cause for concern to many citizens and has also been a cause for concern to us representatives of the People's Republic of Finland. Mr President! The criminal record of all those working with children should be clearly clarified in the current legislation that no new offence against children should occur only because of the shortcomings of the legislation. This issue has also recently been raised by Mr Kurttila, who hopes that an extract from the criminal record can also be required for short-term employment relations and even proactively from jobseekers who register in replacement registers. And, as the Children's Ombudsman has rightly said, it would be in the interests of children, their parents, employers and applicants alike to take a stand, for a proven record of integrity would also increase the appreciation of the substitutes. In this context, I would like to ask the minister present whether the government intends to intervene with prompt action in this area, even by the Ombudsman for Children, to detect and raise the problem of improving the safety of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u122	Mr President! In the same way as the representative who spoke earlier — while adding that there are now two types of practice here: the employer asks the employee or the organiser of the voluntary activity after obtaining permission from this person to order an extract. Now I am surprised that this has not yet become a very permanent practice of finding out the background to voluntary activities. I would like this to move forward in our society, that every child could, in a way, be protected from hobbies, and I would have asked the same question: is the Minister aware of whether there is something to be done about this now during this period?
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u123	There are no other requests to speak. Would the Minister like to respond? — Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u124	Mr President! Mr Savion and Mr Parviainen. The purpose of this law is indeed to protect the personal integrity of minors and to promote their safety. On the other hand, the investigation of the criminal record is, of course, a question of sensitive data covered by the privacy of the person under investigation. However, extending this to work for less than 3 months would require clarification, among other things, as to whether the criminal record system would be possible to obtain this information on the criminal record more quickly than the current procedure. It should also be examined whether the extended procedure, taking into account the privacy of the person under investigation, would be reasonable. And extending the procedure would, of course, be a matter of some kind of resource for the Legal Register Centre. But this in itself is very important. We will probably have to discuss this issue within the government, what opportunities we have to take into account this issue and the attention of the Ombudsman for Children in the context of this legislation. I am going to look into this, because I quite clearly recognise the challenge of this kind, which both representatives raised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u125	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u126	Mr President! I hope the real paper came along. The purpose of this proposal is to make the necessary changes to certain administrative laws of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy resulting from the Data Protection Regulation and the amendment of national legislation on the protection of personal data. These proposed amendments are mainly technical clarifications and amendments to the reference provisions. In addition, this proposal proposes that a provision on the restriction of the right of data subjects be included in the Act on the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency. This provision would restrict the right of the data subject to access to the data collected on him or her in accordance with the Data Protection Regulation. The restriction would apply to the information contained in the Register of the Competition and Consumer Protection Office which the Office handles in its performance of its supervisory tasks under the Competition Act, the Procurement Act or the Procurement Act in specific sectors. The restriction is strictly limited by law. Only the restriction of the registered right necessary for the supervision of the Competition and Consumer Authority would be permitted.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u127	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u128	Madam President! This proposal proposes to amend the entry into force rule of the Act amending Article 6 of the Grey Economic Clearing House Act so that the provision on the preparation of an obligation management report for the tasks referred to in the Act on Package Travel Service Providers would enter into force on 1 November 2018. The Act of 1 July 2018 on package travel services entered into force. At the same time, the Act amending Article 6 of the Grey Economic Clearing House was to enter into force. It states that the Competition and Consumer Authority could ask the Clearing House for a report on the management of obligations for the purpose of carrying out its statutory duties. However, in the context of other amendments to the same paragraph of the Act, the entry into force of the Act on the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency was not brought into force by mistake until 1 January 2019. However, it would be necessary for the Competition and Consumer Authority to have access to the management of obligations when examining the conditions for registration, removal and reduction of the security of travel combination providers, which is why it is now proposed that this entry into force rule be brought forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u129	Madam President! As such, this matter is well-founded and important to take forward as the Minister has said. But in this context, I thought to pay more attention to the current situation in the fight against the shadow economy. After all, the government itself has also adopted a strategy to combat the shadow economy and financial crime between 2016 and 2020 and, as we all know, a great deal has been done in the last term of the government to combat the grey economy, which has, of course, been continued in this period. But my question is: in the construction sector, when the tax number was attached to the ID card, its importance was very great — the VM estimates that some 100 million came from money per year as a result of this, which was related to the shift from dark hours to light hours of work — so now it is a question of whether the government still has the possibility to extend this tax number to other critical sectors, such as transport or restaurant services. This would be a pretty important thing to take forward. The second is, of course, about sharpening the law on subscriber liability, as it is said, so that tax obligations, wage obligations, social obligations throughout the whole subscriber chain are even better. The third relates to the fact that, if our public procurement is about over 30 billion, it is of course important that public procurement should also have an adequate explanation of the role played by companies in the subcontracting chain before they can be involved in such public procurement. And the fourth point, which is very topical, relates to cash registers connected to a type-approved network. When Parliament dealt with the alcohol law, it was unanimously stated in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in this Chamber that the importance of type-approved cash registers is very high and significant, and perhaps it would be good to start with restaurant services. After all, in Sweden there have been such experiences that it has produced to society some 340 million annual incomes that have been missing when such systems are made. So the question is: is the preparatory work on this matter in what direction, given that even Parliament here has encouraged the government to take these steps? Well, of course there are a lot of other things related to sanctions for underpaid pay, criminalisation and the right to bring an action if working conditions are violated, and so on. There are many projects that should be promoted, but I thought the Minister might ask me a little bit about what the government still has to do in the rest of the period to raise these very important issues in themselves, which relate to healthy competition, the understanding of honest entrepreneurs and honest work, so that this fight against the black economy can continue and not fall short.
ParlaMint-FI_2018-09-04-ps-77.u130	Madam President! Mr Ihalainen has made an important speech. These are issues which, of course, are always dealt with in that group of Ministers for Competitiveness, especially this extension of the tax number to other sectors. They have been discussed, in fact, quite a number of times — not quite recently — but I promise to find out what could be done about the issues you have raised, whether this government can still take some action. We have not yet fallen down, so to speak. This is continuous work. The aim is, however, that as many Finns as possible get jobs and, in particular, work in an honest way – I will now refer to the debate on this underpaid job, among other things. We made some pretty big decisions now in this budget line. I do not believe that, until the government's proposal, anything can be done during this government, but many measures can be taken. It is good to have a constructive debate on them in this way. I take these ideas of yours seriously.
